
1
Number 1 NumerologyThe primal forcebyHans DecozPrintEmail269In Numerology, each of the nine single-digit numbers has a personality -- a limited range of qualities and traits that makes it unique and recognizable. To me each number is a character, like any human being. In order to understand how numbers affect us based on their location in the chart, it helps to get to know each single digit number as if it were a person.The goal is to get beyond each number being just a list of positive and negative qualities and to, instead, make each number come alive -- to sense how the numbers play off of each other. If you sense some exaggeration in my descriptions, remember that these nine "individuals" are extremes by their very nature (while we, as human beings, are made up of a mixture of all the numbers' traits).Among the nine single-digit numbers, the 1 takes a special place. From a spiritual perspective, it is the number of creation, the primal force from which all other numbers spring forth (as opposed to the often quoted zero from which, by definition, nothing could 
possibly come into being). It is said that when you truly understand the place and function ofthis most primal of all numbers, you will know all there is to know and enlightenment is yours. This statement, of course, does not apply to an understanding of the number 1 from a Numerologist's perspective alone, but perhaps that is a good place to start, as the personality of the number 1 aligns nicely with its more elevated spiritual symbolism.The 1 is a doer, a powerful force that produces results and does not allow anything or anyone to limit its potential. The 1 is aggressive, a necessary energy for creating and producing. The 1 is always in the forefront: a spearpoint directing and leading others. The shape of the number 1, just like the shape of all other symbols, reflects its meaning; it walksupright with pride and purpose. Strong, determined, unwavering and with specific goals in mind, the 1 can turn dreams and ideas into reality. It pushes obstacles aside or simply drills right through them.The 1 grows, transforms and improves in perpetuity, precisely the way Mother Nature does. After all, nature's primal force and most basic building block is the number 1. Nature knows no mercy and its cruelty can be heartbreaking. However, it knows balance and gives life indiscriminately and without judgment. Scientists sometimes compete with nature, genetically altering fruits or breeding bugs for specific purposes. An understanding of natureteaches us that this is never a good idea and almost always produces unexpected backlashes. The number 1 has a similar built-in perfection and balance; you can force a change here or there, but negative repercussions are likely.The 1 tends to have a simple, straightforward view of life and its many complexities. It trustsits own ability to separate right from wrong. It doesn't waste time on abstract ideas or anything else that isn't in line with its pursuit of results. The 1 is no preacher, no philosopher,no spiritual explorer, no dreamer and certainly not an idealist. It is a pragmatist, a ruthless conqueror and a warrior extraordinaire. It is individualistic and independent to a fault. It will attempt to force its values and opinions on you but it won't accept, or even listen to, yours.The 1 does not hesitate when it senses a need for confrontation. It is jealous and extremely stubborn, but also courageous and willing to try anything new if it sees promise, even at great danger. It is, if you haven't guessed, the most masculine of all numbers. There is a certain quality, a sense of honor and responsibility that demands our respect, and it has a 
sense of justice that cannot be denied. The number 1 cannot witness injustice without jumping in and setting things straight.Its purity of purpose is an admirable quality of the number 1. It sees things for what they areand hypocrisy doesn't stand a chance. Befriend a 1 and you have a friend for life. You can poke fun at a 1 and not have to worry about hurt feelings. A 1 has a great capacity for humor, including the self-deprecating kind. If, however, you try to cater to a 1 to win its love or friendship, you'll lose its respect instead. Stand up to a 1 and you may lose the fight, but you'll gain its admiration. If you are in trouble and need help, the number 1 is who you want on your side -- there is no more dedicated protector or braver partner. If you are in love, the number 1 is the most difficult of all lovers: demanding, jealous, confrontational and impatient. If you find yourself in the service of a 1, you will be pushed to the limit, abused at all hours, and incapable of living up to its expectations. But you will also, without a doubt, become the best you could ever be. If the 1 is your enemy, you will be crushed without mercy.If you yourself are a 1, your happiness and satisfaction will come from your work more than from any other source. And if it was possible for a person to be fully and truly a 1 and only a 1, that individual would be successful and intimidating, as well as extremely unpleasant and dangerous.Number 2 NumerologyThe all-knowingbyHans DecozPrintEmail247
As the most feminine among all numbers, the 2 is also the most underestimated -- at least, when it comes to power and strength. After all, she is almost always gentle, tactful, diplomatic, forgiving and understanding. Certainly, she likes to keep the peace and will avoid confrontations as much as possible.If you look at the shape of the 2, however, you will recognize a symbolic representation of the ultimate survivor and an extremely resilient force. Her shape, as if bent on a knee with her head and back bowed in humility and servitude, makes it easy to dismiss her as weak and powerless. This is in stark contrast to the power and pride of the mighty and masculine1, who will not bow for anyone at any price. However, when enough pressure is applied to the powerful warrior we see in the number 1, he will break and shatter and be done with.On the other hand, when the humble and feminine 2 finds herself under attack and burdened with a crushing weight, she will bend, she will bend as much as needed. And when the weight is removed, her elastic, flexible nature allows her to come right back up, seemingly with little harm done, and she will continue to play her role.Her strength and power is resilient and lasting, just as the shape of the number 2 reflects that so beautifully. There is much more to her than meets the eye; she is often the true power behind the throne. As we stand in awe to the leadership and decisive actions of the 1, his strength and cunning relies on the clever and insightful advice of his greatest ally, the number 2.
Unnoticed and operating from the shadows, she is the Mata Hari who outwits other spies and diplomats with her grace, her sensuality, her flattering attention and her gentle force of persuasion. She is smart and understands the underlying qualities that make people do this or do that. A born psychologist, there is not much about human nature that escapes her. She often controls the outcome of certain events without anyone else noticing or acknowledging. In fact, the credit quite often goes to some other entity when it should be hers. This does not bother her, because among her best qualities is patience. She knows her time will come. But even if she does not always get the recognition she deserves, she tends to take a special place in the hearts and minds of others due to her sophistication, hergrace, her style and her excellent taste in art and music.The 2 has an in-born sense of music and rhythm that makes her popular among any social crowd, and it is in the lighthearted arena of play and art that she shines as a dancer and a conversationalist. Within a social environment, perhaps her most important asset is a senseof humor that is witty and self-depreciating, but never slapstick or juvenile, as she is far too sophisticated for that.If the Greek god Zeus could be compared to the number 1, then his wife and sister Hera would represent the number 2. And like Hera, the number 2 is jealous and mean-spirited when other forces reach for her man. Because as gentle and loving as she is most of the time, her anger is formidable and another side of her comes out when she feels crossed or mistreated -- a side that can be mean and vengeful, cruel and unrelenting. She will claw heradversary to pieces and never look back in regret or remorse. What is hers is hers, and you are well-advised to remember that, as many Greek gods and half-gods found out the hard way.As a partner, the number 2 is an invaluable asset. She will defend you at any cost and her loyalty is unshakeable. However, she is emotional and demanding, and expects to be treated like a princess. She is devoted to you, but she also expects you to be devoted to her. At times, she is a true drama queen, and when that happens you may know for sure that you have not paid enough attention lately. She is not particularly materialistic, but if you don't show up with gifts or flowers every once in a while, she will let you know in no uncertain terms that you are not measuring up. She will throw the occasional tantrum, but if you respond with love and attention she will make it up to you in proper fashion.
In short, the number 2 is a sensual, graceful, loyal partner who can be a bit demanding, but is worth the trouble. And there is another important aspect to the number 2. As the most intuitive of all single-digit numbers, she is drawn to the occult (only the double-digit 11 surpasses her in that department). However, the real value of her intuitive prowess is in the way she interacts with others; it is the true basis of her tact and understanding. Like a good politician, which she can certainly be if needed, she often understands the true motivations of others better than they do, and her clarity and her powers of observation often help others to understand themselves better.On top of her jealousy, her vengeful nature when she feels mistreated and her cruelty when punishing adversaries, the 2 can also be critical and verbally abusive. Her ability to pout andsulk, her bouts of bad temper for trivial reasons and her extended periods of indifference can drive any sane person crazy. On top of that, she is capable of displaying the most illogical reasoning, and a verbal argument can feel like trying to slice water with a knife; nothing you say seems to have any effect. Generally, the best thing to do when a 2 behaveslike that is to get out of her way for a while -- and then reappear with a big bouquet of flowers, and smile like nothing ever happened.Number 3 NumerologyThe creative childbyHans DecozPrintEmail157
Each of the numbers 1 through 9 has a unique personality, a limited range of qualities and traits. To get a good understanding of how numbers affect us, it helps to get to know each single-digit number as if it were a person you know, carrying its own personality traits, strengths and weaknesses.I have described the unique union between the numbers1and2as that of the father and mother unit, while revealing the extreme contradictory natures of each of their personalities. Now, we move on to what could be considered the result of their union: the number 3, an extraordinarily talented child.The number 3 is like a gifted teenager who is still under the protection of its parents: a bit spoiled, certainly scattered and perpetually in need of guidance. However, the most obvioustraits of the 3 are in the creative field. A powerful need to express feelings, ideas and visionsof the imagination, coupled with an extroverted personality, makes it likely that a person with3s in key points of their Numerology chart will seek a career in art, especially the verbal arts. His or her social skills are also excellent. Charm, wit and a sense of humor help a 3 individual along his or her path, and if that weren't enough, good looks and compelling charisma make this "kid" particularly attractive.No wonder so many are drawn to those with 3s in their charts. Followers are even willing to forgive less favorable traits exhibited by 3s, like a lack of focus and direction, a tendency to procrastinate, an inability to finish projects and an unwillingness to take responsibility. On the other hand, there is a superficial side to the 3 that can be harder to look past: a narcissistic streak, a vanity, a need to be the center of attention. It is easy for the optimistic 3 to enjoy day-to-day life as long as all is well, but when challenging issues arise, it can 
become quickly apparent that most of the 3's focus has been on that sunny exterior, leavingits internal fortitude lacking. Without much moral strength or spiritual depth, a 3 can easily succumb to difficulties unless friends and family move in to support it.For the 3 to become a well-rounded, balanced and happy person, it must learn discipline. Some lucky 3s who exhibit talent early in life (such as gifted dancers or musical prodigies) are placed in an environment with just the sort of discipline that a 3 needs to protect these talents. Another unique quality of the 3 is its tendency to be "lucky," or rather, to be in the right place at the right time. This may be connected to its innate sense of rhythm; timing canbe measured in seconds or in years, by the beating of a heart or by the movement of the stars. It is all only a matter of scale, either way, the 3 seems to be in tune with the cyclical nature of our surroundings.Relationships are a bit of a challenge for the 3 -- at least those that include long-term commitment and loyalty. With plenty of acquaintances (probably more than is healthy), when true depth and intimacy enters the picture, this "kid" turns tail and runs. The 3 has a nasty jealous streak, too, causing conflicts when those it has rejected move on in search of more meaningful bonds. This jealousy stems from the fact that the 3 knows, deep down inside, that it has only been skimming the surface of life since birth. As a result, the 3 feels adeeply hidden sense of insecurity, a sense that others know things that have thus far escaped the 3. This is not entirely incorrect and, when confronted with this reality, it leaves the 3 devastated and helpless.There is perhaps nothing more painful than to watch the sunny, buoyant 3 crash into a vulnerable heap of self-pity. And yet, this can be the best thing ever to happen to this shallow creature, as this sometimes represents a turn-around. Once a 3 finds the motivationand enthusiasm to dig deeper into the realities of life (something that will only happen when it has had to confront itself), its happy surface has the potential to be replaced by the quiet serenity that only true wisdom brings. Such a "transformed" 3, rare as it is, is truly a thing to behold.No human being is ever represented by just one number, but rather is a mixture of several, if not all, of the numbers. Those who have been blessed with a heavy dose of 3s in their charts tend to have an easier time being happy, optimistic and playful creatures. However, 






3
Become an Expert Numerology CourseHans Decoz
Course Contents• Introduction - The ChartMaker, Your Teacher & Pythagoras p.1• Numbers - Single Digit, Karmic & Master numbers p.2Audio:The Hidden Foundation of Numbers 35mAudio:The Meat and Bones of Numerology 50m• Life Path & the Color Chart p.3Audio: The Life Path Number 30m• Life Path Numbers 1-7 p.4• Life Path Numbers 8-22 p.5• Birth Day Numbers 1-7 p.6• Birth Day Numbers 8-15 p.7• Birth Day Numbers 16-21 p.8• Birth Day Numbers 22-27 p.9• Birth Day Numbers 28-31 p.10• Challenge Numbers p.11Audio:The Challenges 18m• Period Cycle Numbers p.12• The Expression Numbers 1-4 p.13• The Expression Number, 5-22 p.14• The Minor Expression p.15• Heart's Desire/Soul Urge, numbers 1-3 p.16Audio:The Heart's Desire number 12m• Heart's Desire, numbers 4-9,11,22 p.17• The Minor Heart's Desire p.18• Personality & Minor Personality p.19• Bridge Numbers p.20Audio:The Bridge numbers 6m• Hidden Passion & Karmic Lessons p.21Audio:The Karmic Lessons and Hidden Passion numbers• The Meaning of Hidden Passion numbers p.22• Subconscious Self number p.23• The Balance Number p.24Audio:The Balance number, First Vowel, Cornerstone, & Capstone• The First Vowel, Cornerstone, & Capstone p.25• Planes of Expression - Physical p.26• Planes of Expression - Physical & Mental p.27• Planes of Expression - Emotional & Intuitive p.28• The Maturity number p.29Audio:The Maturity number 6m• Rational Thought number p.30Audio:The Rational Thought number 3m• Personal Year numbers p.31Audio:The Personal Year number 22m• Personal Year continued p.32• The Transit & Essence cycles p.33Audio:The Transits & Essence cycles 17m
• The Meaning of the Transits p.34• The Essence cycles 1-6 p.35• The Essence cycles 7-22 p.36• Pinnacle Cycles p.37Audio:The Pinnacle cycles 1-2 18m• The Pinnacle Cycles 3-22 p.38• The Hierarchy of a numerology chart p.39 Audio:The Hierarchy of the Chart 6m• Practice reading a numerology chart p.40Audio:Taking a look at Bill Clinton’s chart 15m• Relationship Compatibility numbers 1&1-1&9 p.41Audio:The Relationship Compatibility number 3m• Relationship Compatibility numbers 2&2-2&6 p.42• Relationship Compatibility numbers 2&7-3&4 p.43• Relationship Compatibility numbers 3&5-4&4 p.44• Relationship Compatibility numbers 4&5-5&6 p.45• Relationship Compatibility numbers 5&7-6&8 p.46• Relationship Compatibility numbers 6&9-9&9 p.47• Cycles in Relationship Compatibility 1&1-1&9 p.48• Cycles in Relationship Compatibility 2&2-3&6 p.49• Cycles in Relationship Compatibility 3&7-5&5 p.50• Cycles in Relationship Compatibility 5&6-(9&9 p.51• Ancestral Infuences p.52Audio:The Ancestral Influences• House and Telephone Numbers p.52Audio:House and Telephone numbers 4mMore Audio LecturesAudio:Looking at words in your language & relating them to numbers 15mAudio:Becoming a professional practitioner & marketing advise 30mAudio:How arbitrary is the name you received at birth? 10mAudio:Seeing the same number(s) over & over again. 6m
Become an Expert Numerology CoursePursue your passion for Numerology with this free course, at your own pace. The best way to become a Numerology expert is to work hard, but also to let the mystery of numbers reveal themselves to you at their own pace.By the end of this course, you will be able to produce an entire personality profile, calculateinterpersonal compatibility, and understand the foundations of Pythagorean numerology. The calculation methods explained in this course are long-established and respected techniques.In order to get the most out of this course, you are encouraged to download Decoz Software for its Chart Calculator as well as theChartMaker. You can then follow along with both tools as you take the course.During this course we will be using John Peter Hancock and Tom Cruise as examples. Please use the Decoz Software Color Chart Maker (or the B&W version with the free component) component to print hardcopy charts for both names; you will be referencing them regularly.The ChartMaker is a great tool that will save you a lot of time, and produces efficiently laid out charts. To the left is an example of a Numerology chart. Don't worry if it seems overwhelming; we will guide you through it, step-by-step. You will be able to read this chart quickly and easily by the time you are halfway through this course. 
A Message From Your TeacherI am honored that you have chosen me as your teacher. Numerology is a science that allows practitioners to enlighten their clients as to who they are, what they can become, and what they can expect in the years ahead. However, it also takes some practitioners far beyond that; to a place where knowledge stops being theory and becomes an experience. I hope you will become such a practitioner. -- Hans DecozDid You Know?Pythagoras: The Father of Western NumerologyPythagoras was born on the island of Samos, in the 6th century BC. Little is known about the early part of his life. He traveled extensively throughout Southern Europe, North Africa, and the Middle East and probably lived and studied for some time in Egypt. He later established a school on Kroton, in Southern Italy, where he taught Mathematics, Astronomy,and Music.As a teacher, he was respected and feared. Many people considered him dangerous. In an attempt to safeguard his school, his students were sworn to secrecy and were not allowed to write anything down.He is most often associated with the theorem in his name. Certainly, he is held in the highest regard as one of the preeminent mathematicians of all time. However, it was his passion for learning, for truth, and for the discovery of grace and harmony in all aspects of life that sets him apart from other philosophers.It is believed that Pythagoras lived to be almost a hundred years old. He died when his school was attacked and burned to the ground.
page 2Introduction to Numerology — Lectures 1 & 2The audio files below introduce you to the philosophy, history, theory and foundation of numerology. Audio:Introduction 1: A Philosophy and the Hidden Foundation of Numerology 35 minutesAudio:Introduction 1: The Meat and Bones of Numerology 50 minutesSingle Digit Numbers, Karmic Numbers, and Master NumbersDuring this course, we will describe the meaning of the 9 single digit numbers as well as the Master numbers and Karmic Debt numbers several times — based on where they are found in the chart. The meaning of the numbers changes somewhat depending on their location, and I believe that by readingtheir meaning over and over, each time from a slightly different perspective, is the best way to become intimately acquainted with the personality of the numbers.You have listened to audio courses discussing the philosophy behind numerology, the underlying patterns, and some basic information on the numbers, including some background on the Master numbers and the Karmic Debt numbers. Please read the following texts carefully. An understanding of the Master numbers – not just their meaning, but also their “Reason for Being” is extremely important.The Master NumbersThere are 3 double-digit numbers that, while they are rooted in the single-digit numbers, require special emphasis and attention. These are 11, 22, and 33.They are called Master numbers because they possess more potential than other numbers. They are highly charged, difficult to handle, and require time, maturity, and great effort to integrate into one's personality.The 11 is the most intuitive of all numbers. It represents illumination; a channel to the subconscious; insight without rational thought; and sensitivity, nervous energy, shyness, and impracticality. It is a dreamer. The 11 has all the aspects of the 2, enhanced and charged with charisma, leadership, and inspiration. It is a number with inborn duality, which creates dynamism, inner conflict, and other catalyses with its mere presence. It is a number that, when not focused on some goal beyond itself, can be turned inward to create fears and phobias. The 11 walks the edge between greatness and self-destruction. Its potential for growth, stability, and personal power lies in its acceptance of intuitive understanding, and of spiritual truths. For the 11, such peace is not found so much in logic, but in faith. It is the psychic's number.The 22 is the most powerful of all numbers. It is often called the Master Builder. The 22 can turn the most ambitious of dreams into reality. It is potentially the most successful of all numbers. It has manyof the inspirational insights of the 11, combined with the practicality and methodical nature of the 4. Itis unlimited, yet disciplined. It sees the archetype, and brings it down to earth in some material form. It has big ideas, great plans, idealism, leadership, and enormous self-confidence. If not practical, the 22s waste their potential. Like the 11, the 22 can easily shrink from its own ambition, causing difficult interior pressures. Both the 11 and the 22 experience the pressure-cooker effect very strongly, particularly at an early age. It must work toward the realization of goals that are larger than personal ambition. The 22 serves the world in a practical way.
The 33 is the most influential of all numbers. It is the Master Teacher. The 33 combines the 11 and the22 and brings their potential to another level. When expressed to the fullest, the 33 lacks all personal ambition, and instead focuses its considerable abilities toward the spiritual uplifting of mankind. What makes the 33 especially impressive, is the high level of sincere devotion. This is shown in its determination to seek understanding and wisdom before preaching to others. The 33 in full force is extremely rare.The number 33 only matters when found among the core numbers: The Life Path, Heart's Desire, Expression, Personality, Maturity number, or as an Essence cycle or Pinnacle cycle. In all other cases the 33 should be reduced to a 6.The fact that the 33 is extra-ordinary demanding and rare can be seen symbolically in the methods of calculation. For example, a 33 Life Path can happen only when each of the 3 units of the birth date (month/year/day) add to 11. Or when the year adds to 22 (in the 20th century there are only 7 years that add to 22: 1939, 48, 57, 66, 75, 84, and 93) and the month and day of birth combined total is 11. And finally, when the Birth Day is 22 and the month and year of birth total 11.Another way to look at the Master numbers:The Master numbers 11, 22, and 33 represent a triangle. A triangle of Enlightenment.The number 11 represents the visionThe number 22 combines vision with actionThe number 33 offers guidance to the worldNumerology and Karmic Debt NumbersNumerology is based on the ancient idea that each of us is a spiritual being, or a soul, who incarnates on the earth many times in order to further evolve toward higher states of awareness.During our long evolutionary path of many incarnations, we have accumulated a wealth of wisdom, and have made many good choices that benefit us in future lifetimes. We have also made mistakes, and have sometimes abused the gifts we have been given. To rectify such errors, we may take on an additional burden in order to learn a particular lesson that we failed to learn in previous lifetimes. In numerology, this burden is called a Karmic Debt.The numbers that indicate a Karmic Debt are 13, 14, 16, and 19. These double-digit numbers take on great significance when they are found in the core numbers (the most important numbers including the Life Path, Expression, Heart's Desire (or Soul Urge), Personality, and Birth Day), and in the variouscycles during the course of your lifetime. Each has its own unique characteristics, and its own particular difficulties.When you are calculating your chart — especially you core numbers and different cycles— you may encounter the numbers 1, 4, 5, or 7. These single-digit numbers can be arrived at by adding a variety of two-digit numbers. The number 1 can be arrived at, for example, by combining the double-digit numbers of 10 (1 + 0 = 1), 19, 28, 37, 46 — all of which total to 10, and then to 1. However, only in the case of 19 is a Karmic Debt indicated. Karmic Debts are also associated with the numbers 4, 5, and 7. These numbers can be preceded by an array of two-digit numbers, but when the 4 is preceded 
by a 13; or when the 5 is preceded by a 14; or the 7 by a 16; a Karmic Debt is also read as part of the single-digit interpretation.A Karmic Debt can be found in different places in the chart. As a result of totals based on your date of birth, for instance, or calculations based on the letters of your name. This means that two people with a 16 Karmic Debt that is located in different places in the chart, express it very differently. Thus, all I can do is lay out the general characteristics of the Karmic Debt, and some broad guidelines for dealingwith it.What follows is a description of the four Karmic Debt numbers 13, 14, 16, and 19.Those with the 13 Karmic Debt will work very hard to accomplish any task. Obstacles stand in their way, and must be overcome time and again. One may often feel burdened and frustrated by the seeming futility of one's efforts, and there may be a desire to surrender to the difficulties and simply give up on the goal, believing it was impossible to attain in the first place. Some with the 13 Karmic Debt fall to laziness and negativity. But efforts are not futile, and success is well within reach. One simply must work hard, and persevere in order to reach the goal. Many highly successful people in all walks of life, including business, art, and athletics, have a 13 Karmic Debt.The key to succeeding with the 13 is focus. Very often, people with the 13 Karmic Debt do not concentrate or direct their energies in one specific direction, or on a single task, but scatter their energies over many projects and jobs, none of which amount to very much. A temptation with the 13 is to take shortcuts for quick success. Too often, that easy success doesn't come, causing regret and the desire to give up. The result is a poor self-image, and the belief that one is incapable of amountingto very much.In order to focus, you must maintain order in your life. Order is essential to success. You must maintain a schedule, keep appointments, and follow through. Keep your environment neat and under control, and never procrastinate. If you sustain a steady and consistent effort, you will realize much reward.The 14 Karmic Debt arises from previous lifetimes during which human freedom has been abused. Those with a 14 Karmic Debt are forced to adapt to ever-changing circumstances and unexpected occurrences. There is an acute danger of falling victim to abuse of drugs, alcohol, and overindulgence in sensual pleasures, such as food and sex. You must put the reins on yourself. Modesty in all affairs is crucial to overcoming this Karmic Debt.Also important is the need to maintain order in life, and to establish one's own emotional stability. You must also be willing to adapt to the unexpected occurrences of life, all the while maintaining your focus on your goals and dreams. Flexibility and adaptability are at the very core of this struggle.Orderliness in one's immediate environment is crucial to maintaining clarity and focus. Mental and emotional stability must be attained in order to avoid being thrown about by the changing fortunes in the external environment.But the key to the 14 Karmic Debt is commitment. Life will resemble a roller coaster ride, but it will always travel in the right direction if one's heart is set on what is true and good. Set yourself a high goal, maintain order wherever possible in your life, avoid excessive sensory indulgence, and maintain faith. Above all, do not give up on your dreams and goals.Those with the 14 Karmic Debt will experience life to the fullest, and as long as they maintain a high dream, they will achieve success and great spiritual development.
The 16 Karmic Debt — wherever it shows up on the chart — means destruction of the old and birth of the new. The 16 is about the fall of the ego, and all that it has built for itself. It is a watershed,a cleansing. All that has been constructed, and all that serves to separate the person from the source of life is destroyed. Through the 16, reunion with the great spirit is accomplished.This can be a painful process, because it usually comes after much ego inflation. This results in a struggle between the ego and the divine will. Life presents challenges to your grand plans, which can be resented and struggled against. It is a lost battle, and you will likely feel humbled in the face of thecollapse that follows. This humility is the key to later success, however, because you will learn to follow the intimations of a higher reality. In the destruction of the old, a spiritual rebirth takes place with an entirely new awareness. This rebirth affects every area of your life. It is a life much the better for the fall.Those with the 16 Karmic Debt must be careful of egotism. Very often, those with the 16 use their highly intuitive and refined intellect to look down upon others, and view the rest of the world as inferior. This causes acute alienation and loneliness. In addition, it invites retribution, for the egotist is humbled more harshly than any other.When the 16 is in one of the core numbers, this process of destruction and rebirth is a continual cycle that actually serves to bring you into higher consciousness and closer union with the source of life.The 16 Karmic Debt can be a path of progress and great spiritual growth if it is looked at properly. Onedevelops great faith by placing one's life in the hands of God. Through such faith, gratitude and peace are firmly established.The person with the 19 Karmic Debt will learn independence and the proper use of power. You will be forced to stand up for yourself, and often be left to stand alone. Difficulties will be faced and overcome through personal struggle.One of the central lessons for people with the 19 Karmic Debt is that you stubbornly resist help. Much of your independence is self-imposed; you simply don't want to listen to others, or to accept the help or advice of others.The 19 Karmic Debt can become a self-imposed prison if you do not open up to the reality of interdependence, and the mutual need for love.The most important lesson for the 19 Karmic Debt is: While you seek to stand on your own feet, you are still a human being, deeply connected with others and in need of the support, assistance, and human understanding that all people need. Those with the 19 Karmic Debt will learn the hard way that"no man is an island," and that we are, indeed, "all bits of the main!"As you can see, numbers represent both the best and the worst of human nature.
