



NUMBERS 


Numbers and Names 
Numbers and dates 
Numbers ard Health 
Numbers and Disease 
(Numbers ard Herbs 

. UMBERS and COLOURS 
UMBERS and CITIES 

numbers and Mystery 
Numbers and Racing 




CHEIRO'S 

BOOK OF NUMBERS 

Complete Edition , Revised 

A masterpiece of lucid teaching 
on the Science of Numerology, 
explaining the occult significance 
of numbers and their influence 
and relation to human life, and 
showing how to determine one’s 
lucky or important numbers, the 
number value of one’s name and 
propitious times for important 
transactions and decisions. 

Cheiro here clearly demon¬ 
strates his science by reference 
to historical events and with 
examples of the influence of 
numbers in the lives of famous 
men. Every reader will find 
herein something which he can 
apply and use in his own life 
and affairs. 


* 



CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 




Q.PUMLCP 



CHEIRO’S BOOK 
OF NUMBERS 


By 

"CHEIRO” 



I). B. TARAPOREVALA SONS & CO. PRIVATE LTD. 
210. Dr. DADABHAI NAOROJI ROAD - BOMBAY 


Copyright by 
Herbert Jenkins Limited 
London, S. VV. I. 

Great Britain. 

ALI. RIGHTS RESERVED 

Copyright 1959 India, Pakistan, Burma & Ceylon 
by D. B. Taraporevala Sons & Co. Private Ltd. 
by arrangement with Herbert Jenkins Limited 

PRINTING 9 10 ■■ ia 13 14 13 iC 17 ill fijf 

Y 'AK 77 78 79 80 81 89 83 84 83 

This book caii be exported from India only by the 
publishers, D. B. Taraporevala Sons & Co. Private Ltd. 
and this constitutes a condition of its initial sale and its 
subsequent sales. Infringement of this condition of sale will 
lead to civil and or criminal legal action and prosecution. 


PRINTED IN INDIA 

Primed and published by RussiJ. Taraporevala for D. B. Taraporevala 
Sons & Co. Pvt. Ltd., 210 Dr. Dadabhai Naoroji Road. Bombay 400 001, 
at their Electrographic Industries Division, Apte Industrial Estate, 
Worli. Bombay 400 018. 



CONTENTS 

CHAPTER PAGE 

Foreword.9 

I. The Planetary Numbers of the Months. 

Introduction to the Study ... 30 

II. The Numbers i to 9. called the "Single'' 

Numbers.35 

III. The Number i.37 

IV. The Number 2.40 

V. The Number 3.43 

VI. The Number 4.46 

VII. The Number 5.49 

VIII. The Number 6.52 

IX. The Number 7.55 

X. The Number 8.58 

XI. The Number 9.64 

XII. The Occult Symbolism of "Compound" 

Numbers, with Illustrations . . 69 

XIII. The "Compound” or “Spiritual" Num¬ 

bers FULLY DESCRIBED ... 78 

XIV. More Information on How to Use 

"Single” and “Compound" Numbers . 87 

XV. Why the Birth Number is the Most 

Important.90 

XVI. Some Illustrations of Names and Numbers 94 

XVII. Examples of how Numbers recur in Lives 97 

XVIII. The Dread of the "13” Unfounded . 101 

XIX. Extraordinary Example of Numbers in 

the Lives of St. Louis and Louis XVI 106 

XX. Periodicity in Numbers .... no 


V 







vi CONTENTS ( contd .) 


CHAPTER 

XXL 

Some Additional Information 

PAGE 

115 

XXII. 

How to find the "Lucky” Day 

123 

XXIII. 

More Information about Colours and 
Numbers. 

125 

XXIV. 

The Value of Concentration in regard 
to One’s Number. 

128 

XXV. 

Combinations between i Hyphen 4 
Persons and Advice to those Born 
under the Numbers 4 and 8 . 

131 

XXVI. 

More Information about Persons born 
under the Numbers 4 and 8 . 

133 

XXVII. 

The Affinity of Colours and Numbers 
and How Music and Numbers are 
Associated. 

137 

XXVIII. 

Number and Disease. Planetary Signifi¬ 
cance of Herbal Cures 

140 

XXIX. 

How to know what City, Town or Place 
is Fortunate for One to Live in . 

I46 

XXX. 

Horse-racing and Numbers . 

152 

XXXI. 

Examples from the Names of Some 
Presidents of the United States . 

154 

XXXII. 

The Bible and Numbers 

174 

XXXIII. 

Conclusion. 

183 



ILLUSTRATIONS 


"Cheiro". 

The Divisions of the Zodiac 
The Seven-Pointed Seal of Solomon 
Zodiacal Affinities .... 


PAGE 

. Frontispiece 

17 

. . . 22 

31 




FOREWORD 


I T naturally follows that if a person should make a special 
study of any one subject, from long experience, culti¬ 
vation and studious research, he will in the end unravel, 
at least to some extent, the so-called mysteries of the subject 
on which he has so concentrated his attention. 

To the student of Art, Art reveals her mysteries of 
colour, form, design, pose, and a thousand and one subtleties 
that escape the ordinary observer. To the student of 
Biology every leaf tells its own story, every tree its age, 
every flower its own pedigree. 

To the student of Science, what is magic to the unin¬ 
itiated becomes a natural phenomenon with general laws, 
governed by rules or calculations that all who choose can 
learn and understand. 

In presenting this book to the public I need then offer no 
other apology for so doing, than that of having been a 
student of this particular branch of thought for a very long 
period, and having proved so-called theories by countless 
experiments and experiences, I feel I am at last in a posi¬ 
tion to give to the world at large the result of such studies. 

It is admitted by all that the occult side of things has 
been the one side of life the least explored or investigated. 
That there is an occult or hidden part in actual relation to 
human life is on every side a conceded fact, but before this 
mystery—the greatest of all—the majority of thinkers 
have held themselves aloof. 

In our age the physical and mechanical sciences have 
called for the greatest attention, yet such things as wireless 
communication and radium, to-day household words, have 
been stumbled across by so-called chance. 

Already wireless communication has saved hundreds of 
lives, radium has done likewise, the mysteries of yesterday 
have become the commonplaces of to-day, and so knowledge 
in the eternal fitness of things becomes the servant of those 
who serve. 


9 



10 CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

In pursuit of the laws which have controlled thought in 
recent centuries, man has, in earning his successes on the 
physical and mechanical plane, forgotten the loss he has 
sustained from the lack of study and observation on the 
occult or psychic side of humanity. He is more occupied 
to-day in building implements for the destruction of life 
than he is in the problems of life itself, or in the finding out 
of those laws which create, control, and sustain life. 

When Newton discovered gravitation, it was not sup¬ 
posed for a moment that he had solved the problem of the 
spheres, and it is sometimes forgotten that when he came 
to realise that beyond our system of stars, sun, moon and 
planets there were again the "fixed stars” with their 
countless systems, in the magnitude of the problem, 
he could only decide that there was again some occult 
law behind all, greater than any known law that could 
even be imagined. 

With these few words as a preface, I will endeavour to 
make my theory so clear that I hope anyone of ordinary 
intelligence may be able to follow and experiment with 
certain rules which will be treated in the following chapters. 

During my earlier years, when travelling in the East, it 
had been my good fortune to come in contact with a certain 
sect of Brahmins who had kept in their hands from almost 
prehistoric times studies and practices of an occult nature 
which they regarded as sacredly as they did their own 
religious teachings. Among other things, they permitted me 
to learn certain theories on the occult significance of num¬ 
bers and their influence and relation to human life, which 
subsequent years and manifold experiences not only con¬ 
firmed, but justified me in endeavouring to apply them in 
a practical sense so that others might also use this knowledge 
with, I hope, advantage to themselves and to those around 
them. 

The ancient Hindu searchers after Nature’s laws, it 
must be remembered, were in former years masters of all 
such studies, but in transmitting their knowledge to their 
descendants, they so endeavoured to hide their secrets from 
the common people that in most cases the key to the problem 



CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS u 

became lost, and the truth that had been discovered became 
buried in the dust of superstition and charlatanism, to be 
re-formed, let us hope, when some similar cycle of thought 
in its own appointed time will again claim attention to this 
side of nature. 

This ancient people, together with the Chaldeans and 
Egyptians, were the absolute masters of the occult or hidden 
meaning of numbers, in their application to time and in 
their relation to human life. 

When examining such questions, we must not forget 
that it was the Hindus who discovered what is known as 
the precession of the Equinoxes, and in their calculation 
such an occurrence takes place every 25,827 years; our 
modern science after labours of hundreds of years has 
simply proved them to be correct. 

How, or by what means they were able to arrive at such 
a calculation, has never been discovered—observations 
lasting over such a period of time are hardly admissible, 
and calculation without instruments is also scarcely con¬ 
ceivable, and so science has only been able, first to accept 
their statement, and later to acknowledge its accuracy. 

Their judgment, together with that of the Chaldeans, 
as to the length of what is now known as the cycle of years 
of the planets, has been handed down to us from the most 
remote ages, and also by our modern appliances has been 
proved correct, so when one comes to a study such as this, 
as to the value of the numbers 1 to 9, which, as the seven 
harmonies of music are the bases of all music that has 
ever been conceived, these above-stated numbers are the 
basis of all our numbers and calculations, it is then only logical 
to accept the decisions of those great students of long past 
ages and at least examine their deductions with a mind 
free from bias and prejudice. 

It is impossible in a book of this size to give in detail all 
the reasonings and examples that exist for a belief in the 
occult side of numbers, but it may interest my readers if 
I give a few illustrations of why the number 7 has for ages 
been regarded as the number of mystery relating to the spiritual 
side of things, and why the number 9 has in its turn come 



12 CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

to be regarded as the finality or end of the series on which 
all our materialistic calculations are built, but the most 
casual observer can only admit that beyond the number 9 
all ordinary numbers become but a mere repetition of the 
first 9. A simple illustration of this will readily suffice. The 
number 10, as the zero is not a number, becomes a repetition 
of the number 1. The number n added together as the 
ancient occultists laid down in their law of natural addition, 
namely, adding together from left to right, repeats the 
number 2, 12 repeats 3, 13 repeats 4, and so on up to 19, 
which in its turn becomes 1 plus 9 equals 10, and so again 
the repetition of 1. 20 represents 2, and so on to infinity. 
The occult symbolism of what are called compound numbers, 
that is, those numbers from 10 onwards, I will explain later. 

In this way it will be seen that in all our materialistic 
systems of numbers, the numbers 1 to 9 are the base on 
which we are compelled to build, just as in the same way 
the seven great or primary harmonies in music are the bases 
of all music, and again as the seven primary colours are 
the bases of all our combinations of colours. In passing, it 
may be remarked that all through the Bible and other 
sacred books, the "seven,” whenever mentioned, always 
stands in relation to the spiritual or mysterious God force, 
and has a curious significance in this sense whenever 
employed. 

For a few instances of this, take the seven days (or cycles) 
of the creation as referred to in Genesis: 

The seven heavens, so often referred to. 

The seven thrones. 

The seven seals. 

The seven churches. 

The seven days’ march round the walls of Jericho, when, 
on "the seventh day,” the walls fell, before that mysterious 
God force symbolised in the number of seven. It is also 
remarkable that there are exactly seven generations from 
David to the birth of Christ. In Revelation we read of the 
"seven spirits of God sent forth into all the earth." Ezekiel 
speaks of "The seven angels of the Lord that go to and fro 
1 lirough the whole earth," which is believed to be a reference 



CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 13 

to the magnetic influences of the seven creative planets 
which radiate through the earth. 

Again, we have the seven Spirits referred to in the 
Egyptian religion. 

The seven Devas of the Hindus’ Bible. 

The seven Amschaspands of Persian faith. 

The seven Angels of the Chaldeans. 

The seven Sephiroth of the Hebrew Cabala. 

The seven Archangels of Revelation, etc. etc. 

Let us now take another view of this strange number. 
If we were to examine every class of occult teaching from 
the Hindu, Chinese, Egyptian, Greek, Hebrew, or modern 
school, whichever one may choose, in every case—and 
without a single exception—we shall find that the quality 
of the number 7 stands for the expression of that mysterious 
God force in Nature before referred to. 

In the most ancient rules of occult philosophy we find 
the rule laid down that the number 7 is the only number 
capable of dividing "the number of Eternity,’’ and continuing 
in itself as long as the number representing Eternity lasts, 
and yet, at every addition of itself producing the number 9, 
or in other words it produces the basic number on which 
all materialistic calculations are built and on which all 
human beings depend and the whole edifice of human 
thought finds expression. 


EXAMPLE 

The number 1 is the first number. It represents the First 
Cause, Creator, God or Spirit, call it as you like. A circle 
or the zero, "0,” has always been taken as the symbol of 
endlessness—otherwise Eternity. Place the 1 and the figure 
zero by its side, and you get the significant symbol of 
eternity such as 1 plus o, the 10, and then, place as many 
of these emblems of eternity side by side as you like, and 
you get such a figure as 1,000,000. Divide by the mystic 
number 7 and you get the number 142857. 

7)1,000,000 

142857- 



14 CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

Add as many zeros as you like, and keep on dividing by the 
7, and you yourself may go on through all eternity and you 
can only get repetitions of the same 142857, which from 
time immemorial has been called the "sacred number.” 
Now add this number wherever you find it by natural 
addition, it will give you the figure 27, and as you have 
seen by the rule of natural addition described on a preceding 
page, you keep adding till only one number remains, to 
arrive at what is known as “the root of the number.” You 
add again 27 by natural addition, and 2 plus 7 equals g, 
or in other words, you get the full range of the first series of 
numbers on which all materialistic or human calculations 
can be built. 

Now, let us return to the symbolism of seven for a 
moment. You know, of course, that Buddha is always 
represented as sitting in the centre of a Lotus. Let us 
examine, then, the secret of such a selection. It is not 
perhaps generally known that the 7 is reproduced in many 
strange ways in Nature herself, and that flowers that have 
not been crossed by intermingling with other flowers have 
their outside petals in the number of seven, but as flowers 
are so easily crossed with other varieties, and it is so difficult 
to find a pure type, Buddha took the Lotus, which never 
becomes crossed or loses its individuality, as the emblem 
of the religion he taught, because, first, its seven founda¬ 
tion petals are always in evidence, and further, the religion 
he taught was that the creative Spirit was the foundation 
and origin of all things, and thus again bore silent but 
unmistakable testimony to the creative action of the 
seven planets from which all religions have had their 
origin. 

Long before man made his creeds, or civilisations their 
laws, the influence of these seven planets had become 
known on the earth. Out of the dark night of antiquity 
their light became law, and as far as we can penetrate, 
even to the very confines of prehistoric days, in all races, 
in all countries, we find the influence of the seven planets 
through all and in all. 



CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 


15 


DAYS OF THE WEEK 

The seven days of the week have been the outcome of 
the influence of the seven creative planets and gave the 
names of the days of the week, in every land or clime, 
lake any nation you may choose, this fact remains the 
same, and is so expressed in almost every language, Chinese, 
Assyrian, Hindu, Egyptian, Hebrew, Greek, Latin, French, 
German, or English. In modern languages Monday or 
Moonsday in English becomes Montag in German or Lundi 
(Lune) in French, Lunes in Spanish, and so on until one 
comes to Saturday or Saturn's day, the day on which God 
ordered the Hebrews that no work should be done, and in 
giving them this command He said, “It is a sign between 
Me and the children of Israel for ever.’’ 1 And, strange as 
it may seem, Saturday, year by year, in our modem civilisa- 
I ion is becoming more and more a day of rest. 

In connection with this thought, it is worthy of remark 
that Saturn, the last planet in the series of the seven creative 
planets of our solar system, in all religions, Hebrew or 
otherwise, represents “cessation," or rest from labour in 
another sense. In this strange example one can see the 
connection between the seven days of the week and the 
seven creative planets, and it throws a new light on the 
verse, “God made the sun, moon and stars and appointed 
them for signs and for seasons and for days and for years.” 
liven Mr. Maunder, the eminent author of so many works 
on astronomy, calls attention to this strange division of the 
week into seven days when he says in his Astronomy 
of the Bible : "the period of seven days does not fit precisely 
into either months or seasons of the year. It is not a divi¬ 
sion of time that man would naturally adopt, it runs across 
all natural division of time," but this author, not seeing 

1 Wherever the Jews went they obeyed this command, even causing 
I heir Roman conquerors and other pagan nations to follow their example, 
loscphus wrote: "There is not a city of the Grecians, nor any of the bar¬ 
barians. nor any nation whatsoever, whither our custom of resting on 
the seventh day hath not come.” 

The seventh day of the Jews is Saturday, called the Sabbath from the 
I lebrew word Sabbath—to rest. 



ifi CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

or perhaps knowing the great hidden truth contained 
in the number 7, worried only over the point, that it was 
not "a division of time which man would naturally adopt." 
But as everything on the earth and above the earth has 
its meaning, and especially its secret or soul meaning, its 
place, position, and number, in the “order of things,” 
which is the highest form of design, every day of the week, 
every hour of the day, and every minute of the hour, has both 
its meaning and number. 

It is invariably conceded by every class of scientist that 
the regularity, order, and system of the wonderful machinery 
of the heavens is beyond all comparison. 

We know to-day that the heavenly bodies move through 
their orbits with such precision that in millions of years 
they do not vary one minute of time. We know that they 
exercise an influence on this earth which is felt by the 
veriest atoms in the earth, though what this force is, or 
with what incredible speed it acts, may forever remain 
a mystery. It was in dealing with this mysterious law that 
the ancient philosophers by study, experiments, concen¬ 
tration of mind, and perhaps intuition, arrived at the 
fixation of certain laws governing life, which may be as 
accurate as their discovery that the “precession of the 
Equinoxes takes place once in every 25,827 years.” 

It is from these wonderful students of Nature that we 
have received the first idea as to the divisions of the Zodiac 
into twelve periods of 30 degrees, and further, that each 
period produces a definite and well-known influence on the 
earth and on human beings born in any of its twelve periods. 
They further subdivided these 30-degree periods into divi¬ 
sions of three periods of 10 degrees each, in which the 
planets are also found to have an influence, and they pur¬ 
sued their investigations until they worked out a system 
demonstrating that each day had its own particular meaning 
due to vibrations in the ether, which keeps the earth in 
instantaneous report with its entire solar system, and lastly, 
that as the sun enters a new degree of the Zodiac in'mid¬ 
winter at about the rate of every 2\ to 3 minutes, and in 
summer at the rate of 3 to 4^ minutes, that its magnetic 



18 CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

influence varied the effect of the vibrations or ether waves 
of each planet, and so enabled these students of Nature 
to carry their system in this way down to almost the 
smallest fraction of time. 1 

In examining this subject, let us take for an example 
any remarkable piece of mechanism we may have seen, 
such as a clock. We have noticed how wheel fits into 
wheel and how the entire mechanism is put into motion 
as the ray or tooth of the governing wheel presses against 
the tooth of the next, and so on. 

Keeping this illustration in your mind for a moment, 
let us regard the 360 degrees of the Zodiac into which the 
sun appears to pass, from degree to degree on an average 
of every 4 minutes as the teeth of one of our wheels. This 
360 degrees multiplied by the 4 minutes gives 1,440 minutes, 
and this, divided by 60, to bring it to hours, gives us the 
24-hour day, which becomes in its turn another spoke in the 
great wheel of time, and consequently, by the advance of 
the sun, must bring us to the commencement of another 
day under new and distinct influences, and so on until the 
year itself is completed. 

Now as science proves that it takes the sun 30 days to 
pass from one division of the Zodiac into another, again we 
have the illustration of another wheel, as it were, but a still 
slower one, being put into motion, and consequently with 
the change in the heavenly mechanism another set of influ¬ 
ences are brought to bear upon the earth, and so on until 
the twelve months of the year have in their turn experienced 
the influence of the sun in the twelve divisions of the 
Zodiac. 

Let us now return for a moment to the part played by 
the seven creative planets. No one to-day, I believe, can 
plead ignorance of the effect of one of these planets, namely 
the moon, on the earth itself and on the people who inhabit 
the earth. We all know, or at least have heard, about the 
effect of the moon on the brain of people mentally un¬ 
balanced. We know how it causes tides to rise arid fall 

1 This applies, of course, to the motion of the sun through the symbolic 
or cabbalistic Zodiac used in the East. 



CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 19 

along our shores, but still perhaps we do not realise that even 
in the deepest ocean its pull or attraction is so great that 
it causes hundreds of thousands of tons of dead weight of 
water to be drawn up by it to such a height as 70 feet in 
the Bay of Fundy and in the Bristol Channel. 

Scientists, like Darwin in England, Flammarion in 
France, and others in Germany, made the startling discovery 
that there are actually tides in the solid earth itself, which 
are affected by the attraction of the moon. What then of 
the effect of the moon on the brain itself, which contains the 
most subtle essence and is one of the greatest mysteries known 
in life ? 

Granted that this be admitted, what then of the part 
played on human nature by the rest of the planets, which 
are in each individual case far larger than the moon? 
The following table showing the dimensions of each of the 
planets will illustrate better than any words I may use 
this side of the argument. 


Mercury 


2,000 miles. 

the Moon 


2,100 „ 

Venus 


7.510 „ 

the Earth . 


7.913 

Mars 


4 . 9 20 » 

Jupiter 


88,390 „ 

Saturn 


71,900 „ 

Uranus 


33-000 „ 

Neptune 


36,000 „ 

the Sun 


860,000 „ 


I ask, is it logical, with such a demonstration before one, 
to admit the effect of the moon and to deny any effect to 
the other planets that are in fact so much larger than it? 

Let us now return to the important side of the question 
as regards the rules set forth in this book. You will very 
naturally ask, how and when were such numbers arrived 
at that represent the mechanical action or influence of the 
celestial system on the people of this earth? I could write 
an entire volume on this side of the question alone, but in 
the following necessarily condensed pages you will find the 








20 CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

general law explained which may be sufficient to elucidate 

the system contained in the following chapters. 

In the first place, the secret or occult significance of 
numbers was revealed to man so far back in the world’s 
history that the exact place of their discovery has never 
been recorded, but it suffices to state that if one goes back 
in one’s investigations to the most distant period in the 
history of any race who made themselves in any degree 
responsible for such studies, even there one would find that 
these numbers representing the qualities of the solar system 
and the basis of all our later forms of calculation existed. 

In working out the idea contained in these pages, I have 
carefully investigated every important form of occultism 
bearing on this question, but whether it has been Hindu, 
Egyptian, Chaldean, or Greek, the symbols of these numbers 
have always appeared the same, and their relation to months, 
days, hours, and people representing certain numbers, has 
been more or less alike. 

What is called "the secondary numbers" as illustrated 
on subsequent pages I myself have brought into a practical 
form, but they have in every case been built up from long 
investigation and experience extending over many years. 
Although we may never be able to find out the exact time 
in past ages when the influence of these numbers was dis¬ 
covered, that is no reason why we should not accept what 
has been given us by those ancient students. There are 
many other things we are forced to accept in life from being 
conscious of their truth, even when we are not able to get 
back to their birth or beginnings. 

The origin of life we know not, but we are none the less 
conscious that life exists. The balance, poise, and hidden 
laws governing our own solar system have also never been 
explained, together with a thousand other things in our 
everyday life. The very origin of numbers is itself a mystery; 
yet we are forced to employ them, and as Balzac says, 
"without them, the whole edifice of our civilisation would 
fall to pieces.’’ 

Perhaps it may have been that in some far-off time in 
the history of human life, secrets were revealed to man by 



CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 21 

his then more close connection with the "God force" that called 
life into being. The Bible itself tells us that in a certain 
age “God walked with man.’’ Perhaps then “the Fall” 
may have a still greater meaning than that which has been 
usually ascribed to it. 

In some of the most illumined of the Greek philosophers 
we find such an age described as when “the gods talked 
with man” and taught him the mysteries of his creation. 

This idea is borne out all through the teachings of the 
Bible. We read in its pages that Abraham, Moses, Elijah, 
and others, “talked with God.” The words “The Lord 
spake unto Moses” occurs over thirty times in the Book of 
Leviticus alone. A forcible illustration may also be given 
from the Book of the Wisdom of Solomon, now included in 
the Apocrypha, where Solomon says: 

For God Himself gave me an unerring knowledge of the things 
that are, to know the constitution of the world, the beginning 
and the end and middle of times, the alterations of the solstices, 
the changes of seasons and the positions of the planets, the 
nature of living creatures and the thoughts of men, all things 
that are either secret or manifest I learned, for He that is tire 
inlilicer of all things taught me this wisdom. 

1 ask, could anything be more forcible or convincing 
than such a statement, particularly when it is remembered 
that the true Seal of Solomon was none other than the 
m- von-pointed star which contained the nine numbers which 
11 institute the base of all our calculations, and which is the 
mot of the system of numbers as applied to human life? 

Even in our chemistry we have given a number and 
symbol to all the elements. 


Water is 
1lydrogen 
Oxygen 
Nitrogen 
Carbon 


ioro its symbol is H 2 0 

212 ,, „ ,, H 

1030 „ „ „ O 

1969 .. „ „ N 

1050 „ „ „ C 


and so on. 






Sun 1-4 



The Seven-Pointed Seal of Solomon: 

Explanation 

The Sun, with the numbers 1 hyphen 4, represents the combination 
of the Sun and the planet Uranus (the male quality of Creation being 
the Sun with the feminine Uranus of the mental or spiritual plane). The 
Moon, with the numbers 2 hyphen 7, represents the Moon and Neptune, 
the Moon being feminine on the material or earth plane with Neptune 
(masculine) on the mental or spiritual plane. 

The moaning of the lines of the Star being: That life staits from the 
Sun—proceeds to the Moon, from that to Mars, from Mars to Mercury, 
Mercury to Jupiter, Jupiter to Venus, Venus to Saturn, and from Saturn 
(symbol of death) it returns to the Sun—or God from whence it came—to 
begin all over again in another cycle, and so on through eternity. 


22 




CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 23 

All occult studies point to the fact that the ancient 
students had a foundation for ascribing to every human 
being his number in the universe, and if we admit, as we do, 
that there is a moment for birth and a moment for death, 
so also in the links of years, days and hour- that make up 
the chain of life, it is not illogical to assume that every link 
nf life has also both its number and place. I claim that by 
such a study man may become more perfect by his fitting 
in with the laws, system, and order of things to which he 
owes his being. 

In this study there is nothing antagonistic to Religion 
or to our present-day acceptance of the idea of God. On 
the contrary, man will but honour God the more by his 
more perfect obedience to Nature's laws. In no text or 
passage in Holy Writ are we told that God desires human 
beings to suffer except as the consequence of their own acts; 
on the contrary, we are everywhere shown that man brings 
suffering and punishment on himself by his disobedience of 
Nature’s commands. As a logical sequence, it must follow 
(hen that if we move with the laws of life and are in harmony 
with them we must become more happy, healthy, and successful, 
and consequently nearer that state of perfection that is the 
ultimate object of Divine design. 

What would you think of a workman in a factory who, 
instead of moving with the wheels of, say, a weaving 
machine, attempted to force them in a contrary direction? 
Would not such a man be crushed, injured, or perhaps lose 
his life? You would call him a fool, and he would not even 
gain your sympathy, and if such a man brought such a 
fatality on himself by ignorance, your sentence on him would 
be perhaps even more severe. Yet you call Nature unjust, 
cruel, or any other name that may tit into the circumstances 
-you! who do not even take the trouble of seeing which way 
her irresistible forces are moving. You pray. "Thy will be 
done on earth as it is in heaven," but you have no more 
intention of even trying to find out what is the "will” 
which is obeyed in heaven, and broken by you every 
second, than if the sacred prayer had never been 
made. 



24 CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

Your cities are filled with broken lives, your workhouses 
and mistaken charities are hideous proofs of the failure of 
your system. Your churches are monuments to the un¬ 
known, while the known lives with you in every action of your 
daily life and suffers with you when in your blindness you 
bring about the evils you could so easily avoid. You have 
tried every creed, and they have failed to comfort you. 
You are told to cry that you are “miserable sinners”: 
you are worse, for you are ignorant sinners, and it is your 
ignorance alone that keeps you miserable. 

How, then, will you accept this thought of another way 
of looking at life that I bring you in these pages? It may 
give you a new interest in life. It may yet become a religion 
unto you, but if it does, it will only unfold the hidden truth 
of your other religions, the key of whose mysteries you 
entrusted to priests and prelates, who lost it in their cloisters 
or buried it in their ceremonies. 

To the Jew it will be as precious as to the Christian. 

His twelve tribes will live again in the twelve divisions 
of the Zodiac, in the twelve stones on the breast of the High 
Priest, and in the building of the Tabernacle. The words 
he has so often heard, “See that thou makest all things 
according to the pattern shown thee on the Mount,” or 
in other words the pattern of the heavens carried out in 
the Temple of Solomon, will now have a true significance 
in his ears. 

He will remember that when his race marched out in 
triumph from the bondage of Egypt, they did so in four 
divisions, each carrying a standard which represented the 
Jour divisions of the Zodiac with each of the twelve tribes in 
their Zodiacal order. 

The Ten Commandments given to Moses on the Mount 
will no longer represent an unmeaning number, but, as 
explained by this study, the very number has been chosen 
to imply by the figure i. the FIRST CAUSE or the Creator, 
and the “o”—“the symbol of Eternity.” The Ten Com¬ 
mandments were given by the Creator for all eternity. 
They represent the nine planets and the infinity of space 
beyond, which, like ten steps, lead upward to the farthest 



26 CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

been overlooked. In the Book of Genesis we are told that 
"God rested from His work on the seventh day.” Now the 
seventh day, Saturday, is the symbol of Saturn, the last 
of the “seven creative planets" and itself the symbol of 
“rest from labour” resignation to the trials and toils of 
life—or death—whichever way you like to employ the 
symbol. So in the eternal fitness of things Christ also 
fulfilled this symbol by stopping His work at such a moment, 
and passing into the shadow of death as the sun went down 
at His crucifixion, and the period of Saturn commenced. 

"On the first day of the week, at the breaking of the 
day,” again fulfilling the meaning of the "seven creative 
planets,” at the very moment on that day, Sunday, which 
symbolises the Sun, Christ Himself, called the Sun of 
Righteousness, rose from the tomb, even as the Ruler of 
our solar system rose at the same moment from the shadows 
of the night. 

In a thousand and one ways this study demonstrates 
that the true secret of all religion and all life may be found 
in the laws of Nature which I have indicated and alluded to in 
these pages. But, as in this practical age the proof must be 
by its successful application to the affairs of everyday life, 
it is to accomplish this that I have worked for years to 
endeavour so to apply these studies in such a simple way, 
that any person, even those who have not the slightest 
knowledge of occultism in any form, may be able to use 
the system given in this book, and, by a practical applica¬ 
tion of it to the most ordinary things of everyday life, be 
so convinced of its truth that they may in the end make 
it the foundation of all their actions. 

The business man need only experiment with it for a 
few months, when he will be forced to notice how easily 
things turn for him on his day, he will be struck with the 
strange fact that under his "fortunate numbers” things 
will be favourable for his plans or for his business; and how 
much more force or magnetism he will have at each of 
those periods of the year that come under his own number, 
and especially so on his own day. He will begin to notice 
how curiously the worst days of the week have been those 



CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 27 

whose numbers he now sees were not in accord with "his 
number.” 

He will notice also that the same law applies to his own 
vitality and health, how he has felt “down” at certain 
periods of the year, which he will also notice came regularly 
when he has not been within the "favourable periods” 
indicated for him. 

Ultimately, if he is not a stupid man or simply so narrow¬ 
minded or prejudiced that "even if an angel came down 
from heaven he would not believe,” he will begin to apply 
the rules of this book to all his actions, he will no longer 
make appointments at random, but will begin to choose 
the days on which he will draw up his contracts, etc. He 
will then begin to notice how much easier the machinery of 
his business works, he will no longer be the shuttlecock of 
what before he called “chance,” he will no longer "lose his 
head” or be frightened when worries appear to come in 
from every side. Now he will expect them at certain periods, 
and he mil make his plans accordingly. 

In a little time he will notice how much more successful 
he has become, and how, with less effort in every sense, more 
has been accomplished. He will then begin to apply the same 
rules to his home, and will see to his amazement how 
similarly they act. There will no longer be those disputes 
that there used to be when he had nothing to guide him. He 
will know why to expect those moments of depression and 
irritability, when the woman he loves persists in telling 
him that everything is going wrong. He will no longer seek 
solace at his club. Instead, he will quietly remember that 
"her numbers” do not accord with the day or perhaps with 
his own, and will put off the discussion and "the storm” 
until one of those " favourable periods" which have so often 
helped him, and as the same magical result takes place 
with the same regularity and order that it did previously, 
he is tempted to throw open the window, and looking out 
into the night and upwards toward the Infinite, he, for the 
first time, perhaps, will acknowledge that from the smallest 
action to the greatest, the same law applies, and proves the 
truth that the God who controls to a second of time the 



28 CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

movements of millions of worlds regulates also the actions 
of man. 

To the most unsuccessful this system will bring success, 
to the already successful it will bring further success, and 
to one and all it will bring a new interest in life, and a higher 
conception of life itself. 

After upwards of fifty years’ study of this subject, and 
after thousands of experiences and experiments, I am so 
convinced of the truth of what I give in these pages, that I 
only ask you but to give these rules a fair trial, and I am 
certain that you will no longer ascribe the course of your 
life to “chance"—to do so is to insult your Creator. 

Up to now the difficulty has been that so few have 
endeavoured to reduce what is called Occultism to a prac¬ 
tical everyday application. No one before has attempted 
to translate or interpret into "language understood of the 
people” the mystical symbolism of such studies. 

To this end I have worked, and if I may judge by the 
number of letters J have received from those who have 
tried to follow my teachings, I feel I have reason to hope 
that I have not laboured in vain. The following are a few 
extracts from letters I have received which help to demon¬ 
strate that the truth contained in this study appeals to 
all classes and conditions of people. 

The Rev. W. L. Davidson, D.D., Superintendent of 
Instruction of the C-hatauqua Organisation (U.S.A.), wrote; 

Cheiro has so completely converted me by the extraordinary 
accuracy of his system that I am compelled to forego my scep¬ 
ticism and am determined to study further along these lines of 
thought. 

J. Hart Brougham wrote: 

I owe my life’s success to what Cheiro has taught me. 

J. B. Harvey, late Assistant Attorney-General of the 
U.S. Government, wrote: 

The revelations made by your system are so extraordinarily 
accurate that they compel belief. 



CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 29 

Mrs. J. W. Chapman says: 

My life was a continual maze of mistakes until you unfolded 
lo me this system of numbers. Since I commenced to apply it, 
all has changed, and I am to-day, instead of the failure I was. 
a successful woman even in a worldly sense, and a happy woman 
in my home life. 

J. W. B., London, writes: 

Your system of numbers has been tested by me for months, 
during my regular business operations. At first I only regarded 
the favourable and unfavourable periods and days you indicated 
with curiosity; finally, observation has shown me that these 
periods were so absolutely exact, that they compelled not only 
my belief, but my acceptance of your theories to such an extent 
that I now never make an important appointment without seeing 
if the date accords with my numbers. 

These few extracts from widely differing classes will, I 
hope, be sufficient to show that, strange though such a 
study may seem at first, it can be practically demonstrated 
in everyday life and by all grades and conditions of humanity, 
and in each case it makes towards the greater fulfilment 
of life by the betterment, success, and happiness of all 
who will but follow the rules laid down in these pages. 

I am offering to those who may read this book the results 
of long experience—of many years of patient endeavour. 
1 am convinced that if they will but put my teachings to 
the test theirs will be that Heritage of Success which is the 
right of every human being who endeavours by the pursuit 
of knowledge to make himself more perfect. 


"CHEIRO.” 



CHAPTER I 

THE PLANETARY NUMBERS OF THE MONTHS 


ALTHOUGH later in these pages the reader will find 
A tbe sm gle and compound numbers have each 
£ -K. thei , r , particular meaning in connection with human 
life, it is well at this stage to understand how and why the 
months have received their particular numbers. 

■ 7 h i tr y, e sol , ar y ear commences with the Sun's entrance 
mto the Vernal or Spring Equinox on the 21st to the 23rd 
da y of March of every year, and appears to pass through 
each Sign of the Zodiac of 30 degrees each, one after the 
other, taking slightly under 365^ days in so doing, making 
our year popularly accepted as 365 days. 

The Earth, revolving once upon its own axis in each 24 
hours causes the whole of the 13 Signs of the Zodiac in 
their turn to pass over each portion of the Earth once each 

24 T°i UrS ; T he , Moon revolves rou od the earth in a lunar 
month of 28 days. This wonderful mechanism, if I may 
call it so, is exactly like the hour-hand, minute-hand and 
second-hand of a clock. 

What is called the first sign of the Zodiac is the “ period 
of the number 9” or the Zodiacal Sign of ARIES,ivom 

m 2IS !, Mar - Ch - t0 the T 9 th April. It is ruled by the 
Planet Mars m its positive aspect, and has the 9 for its 
number. y 

r Jn%nfi iod °l the °T b -, r 6 " is ^ Zodiacal & 8 » of 
TA URUS from the 20th April to the 20th May. It is ruled 

by the Planet Venus in its positive aspect, and has the 
o for its number. 

^Ji e ,^F e ?° d of the number 5 ” is the Zodiacal Sign of 
fro ™ the 2Ist Ma y to the 20th June. It is ruled 
by the Planet Mercury in its positive aspect, and has the s 
for its number. - 0 

rJurrE e ? 0d 1 thC 2 and 7 ” is the Zodiacal Sign of 
CANCER, from the 21st June to the 20th July. It is ruled 

30 



ZODIACAL AFFINITIES 

I 



The Four Divisions of the Zodiac—Fire, Water, Air, Earth 


THE FIRE TRIANGLE 

ist "House," March 21 to April 19. 
2nd "House,” July 21 to August 


3rd "House,” November 21 to 
December 20. 


THE WATER TRIANGLE 

ist "House," June 21 to July 20. 
2nd "House," October 21 to 
November 20. 

3rd "House,” February 19 to 
March 20. 


THE AIR TRIANGLE 

ist "House,” May 21 to June 20. 
and "House,” September 21 to 
October 20. 

3rd “House,” January 21 to 
February 19. 


THE EARTH TRIANGLE 

ist “ House," April 20 to May 20. 
2nd “House,” August 21 to 
September 20. 

3rd "House," December 21 to 
January 20. 



32 CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

by the Moon in its positive aspect, and has the double figure 
2—7 for its number. 

The "period of the i and 4” is the Zodiacal Sign of LEO, 
from the 21st July to the 20th August. It is ruled by the 
Sun in its positive aspect, and has the double figure of 1—4 
for its number. 

The 2nd "period of the number 5” is the Zodiacal Sign 
of VIRGO from the 21st August to the 20th September, It 
is ruled by the Planet Mercury in its negative aspect, and 
has the 5 for its number. 

The 2nd "period of the number 6" is the Zodiacal Sign 
of LIBRA from the 21st September to the 20th October. 
It is ruled by the Planet Venus in its negative aspect, and 
has the 6 for its number. 

The 2nd "period of the number 9" is the Zodiacal Sign 
of SCORPIO from the 21st October to the 20th November. 
It is ruled by the Planet Mars in its negative aspect, and 
has the 9 for its number. 

The "period of the number 3” is the Zodiacal Sign of 
SAGITTARIUS, from the 21st November to the 20th 
December. It is ruled by the Planet Jupiter in its positive 
aspect, and has the 3 for its number. 

The "period of the number 8" is the Zodiacal Sign of 
CAPRICORN, from the 21st December to the 20th January. 
It is ruled by the Planet Saturn in its positive aspect, and 
has the 8 for its number. 

The 2nd "period of the numbei 8’’ is the Zodiacal Sign 
of AQUARIUS, from the 21st January to the 21st February. 
It is ruled by the Planet Saturn in its negative aspect, and 
has the 8 for its number. 

The 2nd "period of the number 3” is the Zodiacal Sign 
of PISCES, from the 19th February to the 20th March. 
It is ruled by the Planet Jupiter in its negative aspect, and 
has the 3 for its number. 

This brings us back to the point from which we started. 
Owing to the Sun passing from one Sign of the Zodiac to 
another, seven days are allowed at the beginning of 'each 
sign and seven days at the end, which is called the “Cusp 
of the Sign”> during this period the number of the month 



CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 33 

and the qualities it represents are not quite so strong as 
during the rest of the period, and partakes to a certain 
extent of the qualities of the Sign which is passing away 
with those of the one that is coming into action. 

It will be observed that the Planets have a Positive and 
Negative quality in accordance with the period of the 
Zodiac they rule; the Positive giving the more physical 
and forceful qualities, the Negative the mental. 

For example, the symbol of the 9 positive in the Sign of 
Aries is: A man in armour with his visor closed and a naked 
sword in his hand. 

The 9 negative in the Sign of Scorpio is represented by a 
man also in armour, but with the visor up showing his face, 
and the sword in its sheath, giving the picture of the mental 
warrior rather than the physical. 


THE NUMBERS GIVEN TO THE DAYS OF THE WEEK 
ARE AS FOLLOWS: 


Sunday.1—4 

Monday.2—7 

Tuesday.9 

Wednesday . . . . .5 

Thursday.3 

Friday.6 

Saturday.8 


These numbers correspond to the Planets as follows: 


Sun ...... 1 

Moon ...... 2 

Jupiter.3 

Uranus ...... 4 

Mercury 5 

Venus ...... 6 

Neptune.7 

Saturn . 8 

Mars.9 


The Sun and the Moon are the only two Planets having 
what is called “double numbers,” because the Sun and 


B 














34 CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

Uranus are interrelated one to another, so the number of 
the Sun is written as i—4. 

The Moon being interrelated with Neptune is written 
as 2—7. 

A curious thing, and one well worth noting, is that there 
appears to be a sympathy and attraction between the 
numbers 1—4 and 2—7, and it will be found that persons 
bom under any of the 1—4 numbers, such as the 1st, 4th, 
10th, 13th, 19th, 22nd, 28th and 31st, are sympathetic 
and get on well with people born under the numbers 2—7, 
such as the 2nd, 7th, nth, 16th, 20th, 25th, and 29th and 
more especially so if either of these two sets of people is 
bom in the "House of the Moon,” namely, between the 
20th June and July 2ist-27th, or in the "House of the 
Sun,” between the 21st July and August 20th-27th.‘ 

* note.—1 have added the seven days of the "Cusp" to each of thes 
periods. 



CHAPTER II 


THE NUMBERS I TO 9, CALLED THE SINGLE NUMBERS; HOW 
THEY INFLUENCE MEN AND WOMEN, TOGETHER WITH THEIR 
HIDDEN MEANING, AND THE CHARACTER OF PERSONS INDI¬ 
CATED BY THEM 

T HERE is no getting away from the fact that there 
are only nine Planets in our Solar System, also that 
there are only nine numbers by which all our calcu¬ 
lations on this earth are made. Beyond these nine numbers 
all the rest are repetitions, as io is a i with a zero added, 
an ii is i plus i, a 2; a 12 is 1 plus 2, a 3; and so on; every 
number, no matter how high, can be reduced to a single 
figure by what is called "natural addition” from left to 
right. The final single number that remains is called the 
"spirit or soul number” of all the previous numbers added 
together. 

in this first part of this study there are only nine numbers 
to be considered, and one has but to master the occult 
meaning of each of these nine numbers as they occur in 
the Birth dates of men and women to find a Key to 
secrets of human nature that open a source of amazing 
interest. 

1 will endeavour to write as simply as possible that all 
who read may clearly understand what these numbers 
mean, even in the most everyday actions of life. 

Without going into any elaborate description of why this 
<>r that influence has been given to any particular number, 
I will without more preamble go straight to the subject, 
and show how each person may find what their number 
may be and how they may utilise this information. 

The nine numbers we have got to study are: 1, 2, 3, 4, 
5, 6, 7, 8, and 9. These numbers were given to the Planets 
that control our system in the most distant ages 'of civilisa- 
tion, and have been used and adopted by all students of 
occultism, Chaldean, Hindu, Egyptian, or Hebrew. 


35 



36 CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

The secret underlying the whole of this idea is that of 
the mysterious law of vibration. The day of Birth giving 
a Key number that is related to the Planet bearing the 
same number, this representing a vibration that lasts all 
through life, and which may, or may not, be in accord 
with the "Name number,” which I will explain later, and 
with the vibrations of individuals with whom we are brought 
into contact. . 

First we must consider each number in relation to the 
Planet it—if I may use a simple expression—represents. 



CHAPTER III 


THE NUMBER I 

T HE number I stands in this symbolism lor the Sun. 
It is the beginning—that by which all the rest of the 
nine numbers were created. The basis of all numbers 
is one —the basis of all life is one. This number represents 
all that is creative, individual, and positive. Without 
going into further details, a person bom under the Birth 
number of i, or any of its series, has the underlying prin¬ 
ciples of being in his or her work creative, inventive, 
strongly individual, definite in his or her views, and in 
consequence more or less obstinate and determined in all 
they as individuals undertake. This relates to all mfen and 
women bom under the number I, such as on the ist, 
ioth, 19th, or 28th of any month (the addition of all these 
numbers making a 1), but more especially so if they happen 
to be bom between the 21st July and the 28th August, 
which is the period of the Zodiac called the " House of the 
Sun,” or from the 21st March to the 28th April, when the 
Sun enters the Vernal Equinox and is considered elevated 
or all-powerful during this period. It is for this reason, 
which you will observe has a logical basis, that people bom 
under the number 1 in these particular periods must have 
the qualities that I have given to all number 1 people in a 
distinctly more marked degree. 

Number 1 people are ambitious; they dislike restraint, 
they always rise in whatever their profession or occupation 
may be. They desire to become the heads of whatever their 
businesses are, and as departmental chiefs they keep their 
authority and make themselves respected and "looked up 
to” by their subordinates. 

These number 1 people should endeavour to carry out 
their most important plans and ideas on all days that 
vibrate to their own number, such as on the ist, ioth, 
19th, or 28th of any month, but especially in those periods 


37 



38 CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

I have described before, namely, from the 21st July to 
the 28th August, and from the 21st March to the 28th 
April. Outside of their own numbers, number 1 people 
get on well with persons bom under the 2, 4, and 7, such 
as those born on the 2nd, 4th, 7th, nth, 13th, 16th, 20th, 
22nd, 25th, 29th, and 31st, especially those born in the 
strong periods indicated. 

The days of the week most fortunate for number x persons 
are Sunday and Monday, and especially so if one of their 
"own numbers” should also fall on that day, such as the 
1st, 10th, 19th, or 28th, and next to that their interchange¬ 
able numbers of 2, 4, 7, such as the 2nd, 4th, 7th, nth, 
13th, 16th, 20th, 22nd, 25th, 29th, or 31st. 

The most fortunate colours for persons bom under the 
number 1 are all shades of gold, yellows and bronze to golden 
brown. 

Their "lucky" jewels are the topaz, amber, yellow 
diamond and all stones of these colours. 

If possible, they should wear a piece of amber next their 
flesh. 


FAMOUS PEOPLE BORN UNDER THE NUMBER I 


Alexander the Great 
James I . 

Charles I ... 

George I . 

George II ... 

Duke of Wellington . 
General Gordon 
President Garfield (U.S.A.) 
“General'’ Booth 
Field-Marshal Earl Haig 
Queen Alexandra 
Field-Marshal Lord French 
David Livingstone 
Lord Charles Beresford 
Annie Besant . 

President Wilson (U.S.A.) 
President Monroe (U.S.A.) 
President Hoover (U.S.A.) 


Bom 1st July 

Represents a 1 

„ 28th June 

11 

.. I 

„ 19th Nov. 

II 

.. x 

,, 28th May 

• 1 

I 

„ 10th Oct. 

M 

„ I 

„ 1st May 

It 

I 

„ 28th Jan. 

11 

X 

., 19th Nov. 

II 

I 

„ 10th April 

II 

I 

„ 19th June 

!• 

.. I 

,, 1st Dec. 

»* 

„ I 

„ 28th Sept. 

II 

„ I 

,, 19th Mar. 

II 

„ I 

„ 10th Feb. 

II 

I 

,, 1st Oct. 

It 

,, I 

,, 28th Dec. 

II 

• „ I 

„ 28th April 

II 

I 

„ 10th Aug. 

II 

.. I 





39 


CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 


Orville Wright (Flying 
Machines) 

Sven Hedin ( Explorer) 
Chopin (Composer) 

William Dean Howells 
(Author) 

Bismarck 

Sir Edwin Arnold (Author) . 
Sir Robert Ball ( Astronomer) 
John Calvin (Religious Re¬ 
former) .... 
Mary Anderson (American 
Actress). 

Alexandre Dumas (Author) 
Oliver Wendell Holmes 
(Author) 

President Adams (U.S.A.) . 
"Cheiro" 

Delcass6 (French Diplomat) 
William Hogarth (Fainter) . 
Captain Cook (Explorer) 
Danton (French Revolution) 
Goethe .... 
Oliver Goldsmith 
Ferdinand de Lesseps (En¬ 
gineer) .... 
Thomas More (Irish Poet) . 
Nansen (Arctic Explorer) . 
Sir Charles Napier 
Charles Stewart Parnell 
Adelina Patti (Prima Donna) 
Edgar Allan Poe (Poet) 

Lord Russell of Killowen . 
Sir H. M. Stanley (Explorer) 
Brigham Young (Mormon 
Head) . 


Born 19th Aug. 
„ 19th Feb. 
„ 1st Mar. 

„ 1st Mar. 

„ 1st April 
,, 10th June 
„ 1st July 

„ roth July 

„ 28th July 
„ 28th July 

„ 28th Aug. 
,, 19th Oct. 
,, 1st Nov. 
„ 1st Nov. 
„ 10th Nov. 
„ 28th Oct. 
„ 28th Oct. 
„ 28th Aug. 
„ xoth Nov. 

„ 19th Nov. 
„ 28th May 
„ 10th Oct. 

10th Aug. 
„ 28th June 
„ 10th Feb. 
,, 19th Jan. 
„ 10th Nov. 
„ 28th Jan. 

„ 1st June 


Represents a 1 



*» 

»# 


• 1 


n 

»» 

if 


I 

I 

I 

I 


1 • 


I 


„ X 
„ I 


11 






I 

I 

I 

I 

x 

1 

1 

1 

1 


11 

1* 


>• 


•1 

(i 


a 


a 

a 

a 

n 


1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 


a 


a 


1 




CHAPTER IV 


THE NUMBER 2 

T HE number 2 stands in symbolism for the Moon. 
It has the feminine attributes of the Sun, and, for 
this'reason alone, although number i and number 2 
people are decidedly opposite in their characters, their vibra¬ 
tions are harmonious and they make good combinations. 

Number 2 persons are gentle by nature, imaginative, 
artistic, and romantic. Like the number i people, they are 
also inventive, but they are not as forceful in carrying 
out their ideas. Their qualities are more on the mental 
than the physical plane and they are seldom as strong 
physically as those bom under the number i. 

Number 2 people are all those who are bom on the 2nd, 
nth, 20th, or 29th in any month, but their characteristics 
are the more marked if they are born between the 20th 
June and the 27th July, this period being what is called 
the " House of the Moon.” I have added the seven days 
of the "Cusp” to the 20th July. 

Number 2 persons and number 1 vibrate together, and 
in a lesser degree with number 7 people, such as those 
born on the 7th, 16th, or 25th in any month. 

Number 2 persons should endeavour to carry out their 
chief plans and ideas on days whose numbers vibrate with 
their own, such as on the 2nd, nth, 20th, or 29th of any 
month, but more especially during the period of the 20th 
June to the 27th July. 

The days of the week more fortunate or "lucky” for 
them are Sunday, Monday, and Friday (the reason Friday 
is favourable in this case is that it is governed by Venus), 
and especially so if, like the number 1 people, one of their 
own numbers should fall on either of these days, such as 
the 2nd, nth, 20th, or 29th, and next to these their inter¬ 
changeable numbers of x, 4, 7, such as the 1st, 4th, 7th, 
10th, 13th, 16th, 19th, 22nd, 25th, 28th, or 31st. 


40 



CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 41 

The chief faults they should guard against are—being 
restless and unsettled, lack of continuity in their plans 
and ideas, and lack of self-confidence. They are also 
inclined to be oversensitive, and too easily get despondent 
and melancholy if they are not in happy surroundings. 

For "lucky’’ colours they should wear all shades of 
green, from the darkest to the lightest, also cream and 
white, but as far as possible they should avoid all dark 
colours, especially black, purple, and dark red. 

Their "lucky" stones and jewels are pearls, moonstones, 
pale green stones, and they should carry a piece of jade 
always with them, and, if possible, next their skin. 


FAMOUS PEOPLE BORN UNDER THE NUMBER 2 


Thomas Chattcrton, the Boy 
Poet .... 
Swedenborg 

Marie Antoinette, Queen of 
France .... 
Gladstone. 

Queen Elizabeth of Rumania 
(Poetess) 

Sadi Carnot, President of 
France .... 
General Boulanger 
Napoleon III . 

King Victor Emmanuel III 
Edison .... 
David Garrick (A dor) 

Lord Curzon of Kedleston . 
Ibsen (Author) . 

William Lecky (Historian) . 
Charles II 

Sir Edward Elgar (Com¬ 
poser) .... 
Thomas Hardy (Author) 
Gluck (Composer) 

President Adams (U.S.A.) . 
President Harding (U.S.A.) 
President Poincar? (France) 


Bom 20th Nov. 

99 

29th Jan. 

99 

2nd Nov. 

91 

29th Dec. 

99 

29th Dec. 

it 

nth Aug. 

It 

29th April 

19 

20th April 

99 

nth Nov. 

19 

nth Feb. 

99 

20th Feb. 

99 

nth Jan. 

99 

20th Mar. 

99 

20th Mar. 

99 

29th May 

99 

2nd June 

99 

2nd June 

99 

2nd July 

99 

nth July 

99 

2nd Nov. 

99 

20th Aug. 


Represents a 
»» »» 

99 •* 

II 99 

99 99 

• 9 99 

99 99 

99 99 

»► ** 

99 99 

99 99 

99 •• 

99 99 

99 99 

99 99 

99 99 

99 91 

99 •* 


to to to to to to NNNStlNNIJUW N » M *» 14 




CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 


Paul Bourget (Author) 
Henry George ( Author) 
Amelia E. Barr ( Authoress) 
Max O’Rell ( Author) 
Eugene Field (Poet) 

Henry George (Writer) 
Joseph Jefferson (Actor) 
Pope Leo XIII . 

Alfred de Musset (Poet) 
Pope Pius X 


Born 2nd Sept. 
„ 2nd Sept. 
„ 29th Mar. 
„ 2nd Mar. 
„ 2nd Sept. 
„ 2nd Sept. 
„ 20th Feb. 
„ 2nd Mar. 
„ nth Nov. 
„ 2nd June 


Represents a 2 
.. 2 


2 

2 

2 

2 

2 

2 








CHAPTER V 


THE NUMBER 3 

T HE number 3 stands in symbolism for the Planet 
Jupiter, a Planet which plays a most important role, 
both in Astrology and in all systems of Numerology. 
It is the beginning of what may be termed one of the 
main lines of force that runs right through all the numbers 
from 3 to 9. 

It has a special relation to every third in the series, 
such as 3, 6, 9, and all their additions. These numbers 
added together in any direction produce a 9 as their final 
digit, and the 3, 6, 9 people are all sympathetic to one 
another. 

Persons having a 3 for their Birth number are all those 
who are born on the 3rd, 12th, 21st, or 30th in any month, 
but the number 3 has still more significance if they should 
be bom in what is called the "period of the 3,” from the 
19th February to March 20th-27th, or from the 21st 
November to December 20th-27th. 

Number 3 people, like the number 1 individuals, are 
decidedly ambitious; they are never satisfied by being in 
subordinate positions; their aim is to rise in the world, to 
have control and authority over others. They are excellent 
in the execution of commands; they love order and dis¬ 
cipline in all things; they readily obey orders themselves, 
but they also insist on having their orders obeyed. 

Number 3 people often rise to the very highest positions 
in any business, profession or sphere in which they may 
be found. They often excel in positions of authority in 
the army and navy, in government, and in life generally; 
and especially in all posts of trust and responsibility, as 
they are extremely conscientious in carrying out their 
duties. 

Their faults are that they are inclined to be dictatorial, 
to "lay down the law" and to insist on carrying out their 


43 



44 CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

own ideas. For this reason, although they are not quarrel¬ 
some, they succeed in making many enemies. 

Number 3 people are singularly proud; they dislike being 
under an obligation to others; they are also exceptionally 
independent, and chafe under the least restraint. 

Number 3 people should endeavour to carry out their 
plans and aims on all days that vibrate to their own number, 
such as on the 3rd, 12th, 21st, and 30th of any month, but 
more especially when these dates fall in the “period of the 
3,“ such as from the 19th February to March 20th-27th, 
and from the 21st November to December 20th-27th. 

The days of the week more “lucky” for them are Thurs¬ 
day, Friday, and Tuesday; Thursday being the most impor¬ 
tant. These days are especially good if a number making 
a 3 should fall on it, such as the 3rd, 12th, 21st, or 30th, 
and next in order their interchangeable numbers of 6 and 
9 such as the 6th, 9th, 15th, 18th, 24th, or 27th. 

Number 3 people are more in harmony with those bom 
under their own number or under the 6 and 9, such as all 
those who are born on a 

3rd, 12th, 21st, 30th. 

6th, 15th, 24th. 

9th, 18th, 27th. 

For "lucky" colours they should wear some shade of 
mauve, violet, or purple, or some touch of these colours 
should always be with them; also in the rooms in which 
they live. All shades of blue, crimson, and rose are also 
favourable to them, but more as secondary colours. 

Their "lucky” stone is the amethyst. They should 
always have one on their persons, and, if possible, wear 
it next their skin. 

FAMOUS PEOPLE BORN UNDER THE NUMBER 3 

King George V . . . Born 3rd June Represents a 3 

Emperor Frederick of Ger¬ 
many . „ 21st Nov. „ 3 

Gambetta of Italy . . „ 30th Oct. „ 3 

Lord Russell „ 12th Aug. „ „ 3 



CHEIRO’S BOOK 
Abraham Lincoln, President 

OF NUMBERS 

45 

U.S.A. 

Born 12th Feb. 

Represents a 3 

Winston Churchill, M.P. 
Field-Marshal Lord Roberts, 

II 

30th Nov. 

II 

.. 3 

V.C. 

M 

30th Sept. 

II 

.. 3 

Rudyard Kipling 

ll 

30th Dec. 

M 

.. 3 

Sir Arthur Sullivan . 

n 

12th May 

II 

«i 3 

Sir Charles Hawtrey 

M 

21st Sept. 

II 

.. 3 

Lord Beaconsfield 

II 

21st Dec. 

l» 

•• 3 

Darwin ( Naturalist) . 

George Pullman (Pullman 

II 

12th Feb. 

ll 

.. 3 

cars) .... 

ll 

3rd Mar. 

II 

.. 3 

Bishop Heber . 

II 

21st April 

II 

.. 3 

Sir Alfred Austin (Poet) 
Richard Cobden (Free 

n 

30th May 

II 

.. 3 

Trade) .... 

!• 

3rd June 

II 

.. 3 

The Earl of Aberdeen 

11 

3rd Aug. 

II 

.. 3 

King Haakon (Norway) 

ii 

3rd Aug. 

II 

.. 3 

George IV 

The First Lord Oxford and 

•i 

12th Aug. 

II 

.. 3 

Asquith 

William Cullen Bryant 

ii 

12th Sept. 

II 

.. 3 

(Poet) .... 

ii 

3rd Nov. 

II 

.. 3 

Mrs. Craigie (Authoress) 

ii 

3rd Nov. 

II 

.. 3 

Pope Benedict . 

n 

21st Nov. 

II 

.. 3 

"Mark Twain” 

President Felix Faure 

if 

30th Nov. 

II 

.. 3 

(France) 

i» 

30th Jan. 

II 

.. 3 

Mendelssohn (Composer) 

ii 

3rd Feb. 

II 

.. 3 

Cardinal Newman 

ii 

21st Feb. 

II 

.. 3 

Dean Swift 

a 

30th Nov. 

II 

.. 3 

Voltaire . . . 

Ramsay MacDonald (First 
Labour Prime Minister of 

n 

21st Nov. 

II 

.. 3 

England) 

•i 

12th Oct. 

l» 

.. 3 




CHAPTER VI 


THE NUMBER 4 

T HE number 4 stands in its symbolism for the Planet 
Unyius. It is considered related to the Sun, number 
1, and in occultism is written as 4—1. 

Number 4 people have a distinct character of their own. 
They appear to view everything from an opposite angle to 
everyone else. In an argument they will always take the 
opposite side, and although not meaning to be quarrel¬ 
some, yet they bring about opposition and make a great 
number of secret enemies who constantly work against 
them. 

They seem quite naturally to take a different view of 
anything that is presented to their minds. They instinc¬ 
tively rebel against rules and regulations, and if they can 
have their way they reverse the order of things, even in 
communities and governments. They often rebel against 
constitutional authority and set up new rules and regula¬ 
tions either in domestic or public life. They are inclined 
to be attracted to social questions and reforms of all kinds, 
and are very positive and unconventional in their views 
and opinions. 

Number 4 people are all those who are bom on the 4th, 
13th, 22nd, and 31st in any month; their individuality is 
still more pronounced if they are. bom in the Zodiacal 
period of the Sun and Moon, namely, between the 21st 
June and July 20th-27th (Moon period) and from the 
21st July to the end of August (Sun period). 

Number 4 people do not make friends easily. They seem 
more attracted to persons bom under the 1, 2, 7 and 8 
numbers. 

They are seldom as successful in worldly or material 
matters as people born under the other numbers, and -as 
a rule they are more or less indifferent as to the accumu¬ 
lation of wealth. If they do acquire money or have it 

46 



CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 47 

given to them they generally surprise people by the way they 
employ it or the use they put it to. 

They should endeavour to carry out their plans and ideas 
on all days that have their number 4, such as the 4th, 13th, 
22nd, and 31st of any month, but especially so if these 
dates come in their strong period, from the 21st June to 
July 20th-27th, or from the 22nd July to the end of 
August. 

The days of the week more fortunate or "lucky” for 
them are Saturday, Sunday, and Monday, especially so 
if their "own number" should fall on one of these days, 
such as the 4th, 13th, 22nd, or 31st, and next in order 
their interchangeable numbers of 1, 2, 7, such as the 1st, 
2nd, 7th, 10th, nth, 16th, 19th, 20th, 25th, 28th, or 29th. 

Their chief faults are that they are most highly strung 
and sensitive, very easily wounded in their feelings, inclined 
to feel lonely and isolated, and are likely to become despon¬ 
dent and melancholy unless they have achieved success. 
As a rule they make few real friends, but to the few they 
have, they are most devoted and loyal, but are always 
inclined to take the part of "the under-dog" in any argu¬ 
ment or any cause they espouse. 

For "lucky" colours, they should wear what are called 
“half-shades," “half-tones,” or "electric colours." “Elec¬ 
tric blues" and greys seem to suit them best of all. 

Their “lucky” stone is the sapphire, light or dark, and 
if possible they should wear this stone next their skin. 


FAMOUS PEOPLE BORN UNDER THE NUMBER 4 


The Earl of Stafford . 
George Washington . 
Lord Byron 
George Eliot 
Lord Baden-Powell 
Gilwell . 

The Queen of Holland 
Sarah Bernhardt 
Thomas Carlyle 
Faraday . 


. Born 13th April 
„ 22nd Feb. 
. „ 22nd Jan. 

„ 22nd Nov. 
of 

. „ 22nd Feb. 

.. 31st Aug. 

. „ 22nd Oct. 

. „ 4th Dec. 

. „ 22nd Oct. 


Represents a 4 

11 »i 4 

>■ •• 4 

» ia 4 

>• ii 4 

•1 11 4 

i» ii 4 

11 11 4 

•1 ii 4 




48 CHEIRO'S BOOK 

OF NUMBERS 


Lord Leighton ( Painter ) 
Prince Charlie ("The Young 

Born 4th Dec. 

Represents 

a 4 

Pretender”) . 

Sir Francis Bacon (Philoso¬ 

II 

31st Dec. 

II 

.. 4 

pher) .... 

#» 

22nd Jan. 

II 

„ 4 

James Russell Lowell (Poet) 

14 

22nd Feb. 


.. 4 

Haydn (Composer) 

Thomas Huxley (Philoso¬ 

II 

31st April 

II 

.. 4 

pher) .... 

II 

4th May 

• l 

.. 4 

Alphonse Daudet (Writer) . 

11 

13th May 

It 

.. 4 

Sir Arthur Conan Doyle . 

M 

22nd May 

II 

.. 4 

George III 

II 

4th June 

II 

.. 4 

Julian Hawthorne (Author) 

II 

22nd June 

li 

.. 4 

Rider Haggard (Author) 
General Goettals (Panama 

II 

22nd June 

II 

.. 4 

Canal fame) . 

Nathaniel Hawthorne 

-• 

22nd June 

II 

.. 4 

(Author) 

Emma Eames (Prima 

II 

4th July 

If 

.. 4 

Donna) 

Archbishop Corrigan (New 

If 

13th Aug. 

If 

.. 4 

York) .... 

II 

13th Aug. 

• 1 

.. 4 

Ex-Sultan Abdul Hamid . 

If 

22nd Sept. 

1 1 

.. 4 

Saint Augustine 

II 

13th Nov. 

• 1 

.. 4 

George Eliot (Authoress) 

II 

22nd Nov. 

• • 

.. 4 

Heinrich Heine (Author) 
Immanuel Kant (Philoso¬ 

II 

13th Dec. 

II 

.. 4 

pher) .... 
Sir Isaac Pitman (Inventor 

If 

22nd April 

If 

.. 4 

of Shorthand) 

II 

4th Jan. 

If 

» 4 

Pope Pius IX . 

II 

13th May 

II 

.. 4 

Russell Sage (Financier) 

II 

4th Aug. 

• I 

.. 4 

Schubert (Composer) 

Sir Arthur Sullivan (Com¬ 

» 

31st Jan. 

II 

.. 4 

poser) .... 

II 

13th May 

»I 

4 

Richard Wagner (Composer) 

If 

22nd May 

11 

.. 4 

Sir Hamilton Harty . 

II 

4th Dec. 

II 

» 4 








CHAPTER VII 


THE NUMBER 5 

T HE number 5 stands in symbolism for the Planet 
Mercury, and is versatile and mercurial in all its 
characteristics. 

Number 5 people are all those who are born on the 5th, 
14th, and 23rd in any month, but their characteristics are 
still more marked if they are bom in what is called the 
"period of the 5,” which is from the 21st May to June 
20th-27th, and from the 21st August to September 20th- 
27th. 

Number 5 people make friends easily and get on with 
persons bom under almost any other number, but their 
best friends are those who are bom under their own number, 
such as the 5th, 14th, and 23rd of any month. 

Number 5 people are mentally very highly strung. They 
live on their nerves and appear to crave excitement. 

They are quick in thought and decisions, and impulsive 
in their actions. They detest any plodding kind of work 
and seem naturally to drift into all methods of making 
money quickly. They have a keen sense of making money 
by inventions and new ideas. They are born speculators, 
prone to Stock Exchange transactions, and generally are 
willing and ready to run risks in all they undertake. 

They have the most wonderful elasticity of character. 
They rebound quickly from the heaviest blow; nothing 
seems to affect them for very long; like their symbol, quick¬ 
silver, which Mercury represents, the blows of Fate leave 
no indentations on their character. If they are by nature 
good they remain so; if bad, not all the preaching in the 
world will make the slightest effect on them. 

Number 5 people should endeavour to carry out their 
plans and aims on all days that fall under their "own 
number,” such as the 5th, 14th, or 23rd of any month, 
but more especially when these dates fall in the "period 

49 



50 CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

of the 5,” namely from the 21st May to June 2oth-27th, 

or from the 21st August to September 20th-27th. 

The days of the week more fortunate or “lucky’' for 
them are Wednesday and Friday, especially if their “own 
number " falls on one of these days. 

Their greatest drawback is that they exhaust their 
nervous strength to such an extent that they often fall 
victims to nervous breakdowns of the worst kind, and 
under any mental tension they easily become irritable and 
quick-tempered, unable to “suffer fools gladly.” 

Their “lucky” colours are all shades of light grey, white, 
and glistening materials, but just as they can make friends 
with people bom under all kinds of numbers, so can they 
wear all shades of colours, but by far the best for them are 
light shades, and they should wear dark colours as rarely 
as possible. 

Their “lucky" stone is the diamond, and all glittering 
of shimmering things; also ornaments made of platinum 
or silver, and, if possible, they should wear a diamond set 
in platinum next their skin. 


FAMOUS PEOPLE BORN UNDER THE NUMBER 5 


St. Louis of France . 

Born 23rd May 

Represents a 5 

Louis XVI 

„ 23rd Aug. 

*» 

.. 5 

Empress Eug6nie 

„ 5th May 

it 

„ 5 

H.M. King George VI 

,, 14th Dec. 

if 

.. 5 

H.R.H. The Duke of 




Windsor 

,, 23rd June 

It 

.. 5 

Samuel Pepys 

,, 23rd Feb. 

if 

5 

Sir Hiram Maxim ( Inventor) 

5th Feb. 

• I 

5 

Lord Lister 

.. 5 th April 

II 

» 5 

T. P. O'Connor. M.P. . 

„ 5th Oct. 

It 

.. 5 

Jean de Reske (I'enor) 

„ 14th Jan. 

11 

.. 5 

Sir Henry Bessemer (In- 




ventor) .... 

„ 14th Mar. 

•l 

.. 5 

Humbert I of Italy . 

,, 14th Mar. 

11 

.. 5 

Shakespeare 

,, 23rd April 

II 

5 

Thomas Hood (Poet) . 

„ 23rd May 

11 

.. 5 

Chateaubriand (Author) 

„ 14th Sept. 

It 

.. 5 




5i 


CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

Benedict Arnold (American 

spy of the Revolution ) . Born 14th Jan. Represents a 5 

Barnum (of Circus fame) . „ 5th July „ 5 

Erard (Inventor of the Grand 

Piano) „ 5th April 

Handel (Composer) . . „ 23rd Feb. 

Fahrenheit (Inventor) . „ 14th May 

Josephine, Queen of France ,, 23rd June 

Karl Marx (Socialist) . „ 5th May 

Mesmer ( Discoverer of Mag¬ 
netism) . . . „ 23rd May 

Sir Gilbert Parker (A uthor) . 23rd Nov. 

Cardinal Richelieu . . „ 5th Sept. 

W. T. Stead (Editor) . . „ 5th Feb. 

Talleyrand (France) . 14th Feb. 


U1U1U1UU> ViOltnOlUl 






CHAPTER VIII 


THE NUMBER 6 

T HE number 6 stands in symbolism for the Planet 
Venus. Persons having a 6 as their Birth number 
are all those who are born on the 6th, 15th, or 24th 
of any month, but they are more, especially influenced by 
this number if they are born in what is called the “ House 
of the 6th,” which is from the 20th April to May 2oth-27th, 
and from the 21st September to October 20th-27th. 

As a rule all number 6 people are extremely magnetic; 
they attract others to them, and they are loved and often 
worshipped by those under them. 

They are very determined in carrying out their plans, 
and may, in fact, be deemed obstinate and unyielding, 
except when they themselves become deeply attached: in 
such a case they become devoted slaves to those they love. 

Although number 6 people are considered influenced by 
the Planet Venus, yet as a rule theirs is more the “mother 
love" than the sensual. They lean to the romantic and ideal 
in all matters of the affections. In some ways they take 
very strongly after the supposed qualities of Venus, in 
that they love beautiful things, they make most artistic 
homes, are fond of rich colours, also paintings, statuary, 
and music. 

If rich they are most generous to art and artists, they 
love to entertain their friends and make everyone happy 
about them, but the one thing they cannot stand is discord 
and jealousy. 

When roused by anger they will brook no opposition, 
and will fight to the death for whatever person or cause 
they espouse, or out of their sense of duty. 

The number 6 people have got the power of making more 
friends than any other class, with the exception of 'the 
number 5, but especially so with all persons bom under 
the vibration of the 3, the 6, the 9, or all their series. 



CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 53 

Their most important days in the week are Tuesdays, 
Thursdays, and Fridays, and especially so if a number of 
3, 6, or g, such as the 3rd, 6th, 9th, 12th, 15th, 18th, 21st. 
24th, 27th, or 30th, should fall on one of those days. 

Number 6 people should endeavour to carry out their 
plans and aims on all dates that fall under their “own 
number," such as the 6th, 15th, or 24th of any month, but 
more especially when these dates fall in the " period of the 
6," namely, between the 20th April and May 20th-27th, 
or from the 21st September to October 20th-27th. 

Their "lucky 1 ’ colours are all shades of blue, from the 
lightest to the darkest, also all shades of rose or pink, but 
they should avoid wearing black or dark purple. 

Their “ lucky” stone is especially the turquoise, and, as 
far as possible, they should wear one, or a piece of tur¬ 
quoise matrix, next their skin. Emeralds are also "lucky” 
for the number 6 people. 


FAMOUS PEOPLE BORN UNDER THE NUMBER 6 


Queen Victoria of England . 

Born 

24th May 

Represents a 6 

Napoleon I 

,, 

15th Aug. 

11 11 6 

Frederick the Great . 


24th Jan. 

•• .. 6 

George III 

II 

24th May 

.. .. 6 

Duke of Marlborough 

n 

24th May 

.. 6 

Emperor Maximilian of 




Mexico 

.. 

6th July 

.. 6 

Henry VI ... 

it 

6th Dec. 

ii ,1 6 

Oliver Cromwell 

,, 

24th April 

.. „ 6 

Cecil Rhodes 


6th July 

11 i» 6 

Joan of Arc 

n 

6th Jan. 

•1 11 6 

Admiral Lord Jellicoe. 

tl 

6th Dec. 

11 11 6 

President Taft (U.S.A.) 

n 

15th Sept. 

.. 6 

Sir Walter Scott 


6th Dec. 

i> ,, 6 

Sir Henry Irving 

it 

6th Feb. 

.. .. 6 

Joseph Choate ( U.S . Am¬ 




bassador to England) 

a 

24th Jan. 

,, 6 

Susan B. Anthony (Suffra¬ 




gette) . . _ . 

ii 

15th Feb. 

„ 6 

Michael Angelo (Painter) 

»• 

6th Mar. 

„ 6 

Elizabeth Browning (Poet) . 

ii 

6th Mar. 

•1 1. 6 





54 CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 


Henry Ward Beecher 


[Preacher) 

Born 

24th June 

Represents 

President Diaz (Mexico) 

ft 

15th Sept. 

11 

Sir William Herschel (As- 

tronomer) 

II 

15th Nov. 

II 

Grace Darling (Heroine) 

ti 

24th Nov. 

II 

Warren Hastings (States- 

man) .... 

n 

6th Dec. 

M 

King George I (Greece) 

a 

24th Dec. 

If 

John Knox (Reformer) 

ii 

24th Nov. 

II 

Mo here (Author) 

ii 

15th Jan. 

II 

Max Miiller (Philosopher and 

Poet) . ... 

ti 

6th Dec. 

II 

Daniel O’Connell ( States - 

man) .... 


6th Aug. 

II 

Count do Paris (Louis 

Philippe) 

H 

24th Aug. 

II 

Admiral Peary (North Pole 

fame) .... 

ii 

6th May 

II 

Sir Arthur Pinero (A uthor) . 

li 

24th May 

II 

Rembrandt (Painter) 

ti 

15th July 

If 

Alfred Tennyson (Poet) 

•» 

6th Aug. 

• 1 

George Westinghouse (In- 

ventor) .... 

ti 

6th Oct. 





CHAPTER IX 


THE NUMBER 7 

T HE number 7 stands in symbolism for the Planet 
Neptune, and represents all persons born under the 
7, namely those who are born on the 7th, 16th, or 
25th of any month, but more especially influences such 
persons if they were born from the 21st June to July 20th- 
27th, the period of the Zodiac called the " House of the 
Moon.” The Planet Neptune has always been considered 
as associated with the Moon, and, as the part of the Zodiac 
1 have mentioned is also called the First House of Water, 
the connection of Neptune whose very name is always 
associated with Water is then logical and easily understood. 

Now, as the number of the Moon is always given as a 2, 
this explains why it is that the number 7 people have as 
their secondary number the 2, and get on well and make 
friends easily with all those born under the Moon numbers, 
namely, the 2nd, nth, 20th, and 29th of any month, 
especially so if they are also born in the “House of the 
Moon,” from the 21st of June to the end of July. 

People born under the number 7, namely, on the 7th, 
16th, or 25th of any month, are very independent, original, 
and have strongly marked individuality. 

At heart they love change and travel, being restless in 
their natures. If they have the means of gratifying their 
desires they visit foreign countries and become keenly 
interested in the affairs of far-off lands. They devour books 
on travel and have a wide universal knowledge of the world 
at large. 

They often make extremely good writers, painters, or 
poets, but in everything they do, they sooner or later show a 
peculiar philosophical outlook on life that tinges all their work. 

As a class they care little about the material things of 
life; they often become rich by their original ideas or 
methods of business, but if they do they are just as likely 


55 



56 CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

to make large donations from their wealth to charities or 
institutions. The women of this number generally marry 
well, as they are always anxious about the future, and feel 
that they need some rock to rest on lest the waters of Fate 
sweep them away. 

The number 7 people have good ideas about business, 
or rather their plans are good if they will only carry them 
out. They have usually a keen desire to travel and read 
a great deal about far-off countries. If they can they will 
become interested in matters concerning the sea, and in 
trade or business they often become merchants, exporters 
and importers, dealing with foreign countries, and owners 
or captains of ships if they can get the chance. 

Number 7 people have very peculiar ideas about religion. 
They dislike to follow the beaten track; they create a reli¬ 
gion of their own, but one that appeals to the imagination 
and based on the mysterious. 

These people usually have remarkable dreams and a 
great leaning to occultism; they have the gift of intuition, 
clairvoyance, and a peculiar quieting magnetism of their 
own that has great influence over others. 

Number 7 people should endeavour to carry out their 
plans and aims on all days that fall under their "own 
number," such as the 7th, 16th. or 25th of any month, but 
more especially when these dates fall in the "period of the 
7," namely, from the 21st June to July 2oth-27th—and 
less strongly from that date to the end of August. 

The days of the week more fortunate or "lucky" for 
them are the same as for the number 2 people, namely, 
Sunday and Monday, especially if their "own number” 
falls on one of these days, or their interchangeable numbers 
of 1, 2, 4, such as the 1st, 2nd, 4th, 10th, nth, 13th, 19th, 
20th, 22nd, 28th, 29th, or 31st. 

Their "lucky” colours are all shades of green, pale shades, 
also white and yellow, and they should avoid all heavy dark 
colours as much as possible. 

Their "lucky” stones are moonstones, "cat’s-eyes,"-and 
pearls, and if possible, they should wear a moonstone or a 
piece of moss agate next their skin. 



CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 


57 


FAMOUS PEOPLE BORN UNDER THE NUMBER 7 


Queen Elizabeth 
Louis XIV 

Empress Charlotte of Mexico 
Lord Rosebery . 

Lord Balfour . 

Admiral Earl Beatty 
Bonar Law, M.P. 

Charles Dickens 
Sir Joshua Reynolds . 

Oscar Wilde 

Ernst Haeckel ( Naturalist) . 
Camille Flammarion (Astro¬ 
nomer) 

Prince Imperial (Napoleon) 
Sir John Franklin ( Explorer) 
Robert Browning (Pod) 
Ralph Waldo Emerson 
(Poet) .... 
Dean Farrar 
Bret Harte 

Philip D. Armour (founder 
of Armour 6- Co., Chicago) 
Andrew Carnegie 
Sir Isaac Newton (Astrono¬ 
mer) .... 
Rousseau (French Poet) 
Sardou (Author) 

De Witt Talmage (Preacher) 
William Wordsworth (Poet) 


Born 7th Sept. 

,, iGth Sept. 
„ 7th June 
„ 7th May 
„ 25th July 
„ 16th Jan. 

„ 16th Sept. 

,, 7th Feb. 

„ 16th July 

,, 16th Oct. 

„ 16th Feb. 

„ 25th Feb. 

16th Mar. 

„ 16th April 
„ 7th May 

.. 25th June 

7 th Au S- 
„ 25th Aug. 

„ 16th May 
„ 25th Nov. 

„ 25th Dec. 
„ 16th April 
„ 7th Sept. 
„ 7th Jan. 
„ 7 th April 


Represents a 


it II 

I* M 

II It 

11 it 

It »> 

n 11 

11 1» 

11 M 

n n 


n M 

n •» 

M >1 

II It 


It 

I* 


.. 7 
.. 7 
7 


»» 

M 

I* 

II 


II 

II 


• I 
II 
II 

• » 
II 


7 

7 

7 

7 

7 

7 

7 


NMNfsINfNNNtNM' 





CHAPTER X 


THE NUMBER 8 

T HE number 8 stands in symbolism for the Planet 
Saturn. This number influences all persons bom on 
the 8th, 17th, or 26th in any month, but still more 
so if their birthday comes between the 21st December and 
the 26th January, which period is called the House of 
Saturn (Positive), and from the 26th January to February 
xgth-26th, the period called the House of Saturn (Nega¬ 
tive). 

These people are invariably much misunderstood in their 
lives, and perhaps for this reason they feel intensely lonely 
at heart. 

They have deep and very intense natures, great strength 
of individuality; they generally play some important role 
on life's stage, but usually one which is fatalistic, or as the 
instrument of Fate for others. 

If at all religious they go to extremes and are fanatics 
in their zeal. In any cause they take up, they attempt to 
carry it through in spite of all argument or opposition, and 
in doing so they generally make bitter and relentless enemies. 

They often appear cold and undemonstrative, though in 
reality they have warm hearts towards the oppressed of 
all classes; but they hide their feelings and allow people 
to think just what they please. 

These number 8 people are either great successes or great 
failures; there appears to be no happy medium in their 
case. 

If ambitious, they generally aim for public life or govern¬ 
ment responsibility of some kind, and often hold very high 
positions involving great sacrifice on their part. 

It is not, however, from a worldly standpoint, a fortunate 
number to be bom under, and such persons often are called 
on to face the very greatest sorrows, losses, and humilia¬ 
tions. 

58 



CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 59 

The "lucky” colours for people bom under the 8 are all 
shades of dark grey,’black, dark blue, and purple. If number 
8 persons were to dress in light colours they would look 
awkward, and as if there were something wrong with them. 

The number 8 being a Saturn number, Saturday is there¬ 
fore their most important day, but on account of the number 
4 having influence on a Sunday and in a secondary way on 
a Monday, the number 8 people will find Saturday, Sunday, 
and Monday their most important days. 

Number 8 people should endeavour to carry out their 
plans and aims on all days that fall under their ‘‘own 
number,” such as the 8th, 17th, or 26th in any month, but 
more especially so when these dates lall in the " period of the 
8,” namely, from the 21st December to January 20th-27th, 
and from that date to February igth-26th; also if these 
dates fall on a Saturday, Sunday, or Monday, or their inter¬ 
changeable number, which is 4, such as the 4th, 13th, 
22nd, or 31st. 

Their "lucky” stones are the amethyst and the dark- 
toned sapphire, also the black pearl or the black diamond 
and if possible they should wear one of these next their 
skin. 

The number 8 is a difficult number to explain. It repre¬ 
sents two worlds, the material and the spiritual. It is in 
fact, if one regards it, like two circles just touching together. 

It is composed of two equal numbers: 4 and 4. 

From the earliest ages it has been associated with the 
symbol of an irrevocable Fate, both in connection with the 
fives of individuals or nations. In Astrology it stands for 
Saturn, which is also called the Planet of Fate. 

One side of the nature of this number represents upheaval, 
revolution, anarchy, waywardness and eccentricities of all 
kinds. 

The other side represents philosophic thought, a strong 
leaning towards occult studies, religious devotion, concen¬ 
tration of purpose, zeal for any cause espoused, and a 
fatalistic outlook colouring all actions. 

All persons who have the number 8 clearly associated 
with their fives feel that they are distinct and different 



60 CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

from their fellows. At heart they are lonely; they are 
misunderstood, and they seldom reap the reward for the 
good they may do while they are living. After their death 
they are often extolled, their works praised, and lasting 
tributes offered to their memory. 

Those on the lower plane generally come into conflict 
with human justice and have some tragic ending to their 
lives. Those on the higher plane carry their misunderstood 
motives and lay bare the tragedy of their souls before 
Divine Justice. 

To distinguish in which of these two classes a number 
8 person falls, one must find by the comparison of their 
"fadic” numbers if they are completely dominated by the 
recurrence of 8 in the principal events of their lives, or if 
some other equally powerful number such as the i, 3 
or 6 series does not more or less balance the sequel of events 
registered under the 8 and all its series. 

If the latter is the case, one may be sure that by the 
long series of reincarnations they have passed through, 
they have paid the price in some former state, and are now 
passing towards the higher, where Divine Justice will give 
them their reward. 

If, on the contrary, we find that the person is completely 
dominated by the number 8, always recurring in important 
events, or if instead of 8 the nearly equally fatalistic number 
of 4 is continually recurring, we may then be sure that 
we are in the presence of one of those strange playthings 
of Fate with the possibilities that tragedy may be inter¬ 
woven in their Destiny. 

In the more ordinary tragedies of everyday life, we can 
find an illuminating example in the life and execution of 
Crippen, whose principal actions were singularly influenced 
by the terrible combination of the 8 and the 4. 

Looking back over his career, and especially the events 
which led up to his paying that terrible forfeit at the hands 
of the law, one will find these numbers associated in the 
most dramatic way with this man’s life, as illustrated.by 
the following facts: 

The figures of the year he was bom in (1862), if added 



CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 61 

together, produce an 8 (17 equals 1 plus 7 equals 8). He 
was bom on the 26th of January, or 2 plus 6 equals 8. 

His wife was not seen alive after dinner with him on the 
31st January, which is a 4, and the month of January is 
itself called the House of Saturn, whose number is an 8. 

He made his statement to Inspector Drew (which was 
later to be used as overwhelming evidence against him) on 
the 8th July. 

The human remains were found in the cellar on 13th 
July, which again makes the number 4. 

To try to escape he chose the name "Robinson,'' which 
has, strange to say, 8 letters in it. 

He was recognised on board the Montrose on the 22nd 
July, which again equals a 4. 

The name of the ship he chose to leave Europe by (the 
Montrose) has 8 letters, and the ship that brought him back 
to his doom, the Megantic, was also composed of 8 letters. 

He was arrested, as this ship reached Canada, on the 
morning of the 31st July, which again equals 4. 

His trial finished on Saturday, 22nd October, which is 
again the 4, and October being the month of " the detriment 
of Saturn " gives again the 8. 

The occult number by which Saturday is designated is 
an 8. 

His execution was lixed for the 8th November. 

His appeal was heard and refused on Saturday, 5th 
November. The 5 added to the 8, which Saturday is a 
symbol of, again makes the figure 13, which number again 
equals a 4. 

When his appeal failed, the date of execution was changed 
to the 23rd November. The addition of 2-3 makes a 5, 
and the division of the Zodiac which represents this portion 
of November is designated as a 3 ; and this 3, if added to 
the date (the 23rd), makes the figure 26, which by addition 
(2 plus 6) again equals 8. Or if the 3 were added to the 
number of 23 we would get 26 or the 8. 

The symbol of the number 8, I may also mention, from 
time immemorial, in occult studies, is called the “symbol 
of human justice." 



62 CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

Lastly, when Crippen’s “Key numbers”, the 4 and 8, 
came together, it was the fatal year of his life. He was 48 
years old when executed. 

It is not my province to judge or condemn this unfor¬ 
tunate being. Crippen, in any case, suffered as few men 
have been called upon to suffer; but I may add that the 
combination of such numbers as 4 and 8 as the “ Key 
numbers” in any life, indicate an individual terribly under 
the influence of Fate, and one especially unfortunate through 
his or her affections. 

I have followed out many cases of people having similar 
"Key numbers,” and in every case they seem sooner or 
later to come into conflict with what the 8 represents, 
namely, the symbol of "human justice.” They are gener¬ 
ally condemned, even in ordinary social life, by the weight 
of circumstantial evidence, and they usually die with their 
secret, appealing, as it were, from the sentence of "human 
justice,” which, as a rule, has been against them, to that 
of the Divine Justice in the world beyond. 

The occult symbol of 8 has from time immemorial been 
represented by the figure of Justice with a Sword pointing 
upwards and a Balance or Scales in the left hand. 

There are many very curious things in history as regards 
this number. The Greeks called it the number of Justice 
on account of its equal divisions of equally even numbers. 

The Jews practised circumcision on the 8th day after 
birth. At their Feast of Dedication they kept 8 candles 
burning, and this Feast lasted 8 days. 

Eight prophets were descended from Rahab. 

There were 8 sects of Pharisees. 

Noah was the 8th in direct descent from Adam. 

The strange number of three eights (888) is considered 
by students of Occultism to be the number of Jesus Christ 
in His aspect as the Redeemer of the world. Curiously 
enough, the addition of 888 makes 24 and 2 plus 4 gives the 
6 which is the number of Venus, the representative of Love. 

This number 888 given to Christ is in direct opposition 
to 666 which Revelation says "is the number of the Beast 
or the number of Man.” The numbers 666 if added together 



CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 63 

gives 18 (1 plus 8 equals 9). This 9 is the number of Mars, 
the symbol of War, destruction, and force, which is decidedly 
the opposition of the 6 with the symbol of Love. 


REMARKABLE PEOPLE BORN UNDER THE 8 


Mary I of England (called 
Bloody Queen Mary) 

King Albert of Belgium 
Queen Mary 
Alfonso XIII of Spain 
Joseph Chamberlain . 
George Bernard Shaw 
David Lloyd George . 
Prince Albert (Consort of 
Queen Victoria) 

Admiral Dewey (U.S.A.) 
Bernadotte, King of Sweden 
Colonel Cody (Buffalo Bill) 
Wilkie Collins (Author) 

Louis Condc of France 
Sir Humphrey Davy . 
Gounod (Composer) . 
Jenner (Discoverer oj Vac¬ 
cines) . 

La Fontaine 
Mary, Queen of Scots 
Sir John Millais (Painter) . 
General von Moltke 
Pierpont-Morgan (Finan¬ 
cier) 

Richard I (Coeur de Lion) . 
J. D. Rockefeller (Oil Mag¬ 
nate) .... 
Jules Verne (Novelist) 

John Wesley (Preacher) 


Born 17th Pcb. 
„ 8th April 
„ 26th May 
„ 17th May 
„ 8th July 
„ 26th July 
„ 17th Jan. 

„ 26th Aug. 
,, 26th Dec. 

26th Jan. 
,, 26th Feb. 
„ 8th Jan. 
„ 8th Sept. 
„ 17th Dec. 
„ 17th June 

,, 17th May 
,. 8th July 
„ 8th Dec. 
.. 8th June 
„ 26th Oct. 

„ 17th April 
„ 8th Sept. 

8th July 
„ 8th Feb. 
„ 17th June 


Represents an 

II II 

• I 11 

II 11 

II II 

II II 

ft II 

II II 

If »l 

II II 

II II 

ll II 

ll ll 

• I II 

II II 

1 1 ll 

II II 

II II 

II 11 

II II 

Jl •• 

II II 

II ll 

• I *• 


CCCC 00 0C00 30 0O OOCOCGOCCCCOCGOC OO CO GO CO GO GOOO CO OO CO 









CHAPTER XI 


THE NUMBER g 

T HE number 9 stands in symbolism for the Planet 
Mars. This number influences all persons bom on 
the gth, i8th, and 27th of any month, but still more 
so if their birthday falls in the period between the 21st 
March and April igth-26th (called the House of Mars 
Positive) or in the period between the 21st October and 
November 20th-27th (called the House of Mars Negative). 

Number 9 persons are fighters in all they attempt in life. 
They usually have difficult times in their early years, hut 
generally they are, in the end, successful by their grit, 
strong will, and determination. 

In character, they are hasty in temper, impulsive, inde¬ 
pendent, and desire to be their own masters. 

When the number 9 is noticed to be more than usually 
dominant in the dates and events of their lives they will 
be found to make great enemies, to cause strife and oppo¬ 
sition wherever they may be, and they are often wounded 
or killed either in warfare or in the battle of life. 

They have great courage and make excellent soldiers 
or leaders in any cause they espouse. 

Their greatest dangers arise from foolhardiness and im¬ 
pulsiveness in word and action. They are also peculiarly 
prone to accidents from fire and explosions and rarely get 
through life without injury from such causes. As a general 
rule they go under many operations by the surgeon’s knife. 

They usually experience many quarrels and strife in 
their home life, either with their own relations or with the 
family they marry into. 

They strongly resent criticism, and even when not con¬ 
ceited, they have always a good opinion of themselves, 
brooking no interference with their plans. They like to 
be “looked up to" and recognised as "the head of the 
house.” 

64 



CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 65 

They are resourceful and excellent in organisation, but 
they must have the fullest control; if not, they lose heart 
and stand aside and let things go to pieces. 

For affection and sympathy they will do almost anything, 
and the men of this number can be made the greatest fools 
of, if some clever woman gets pulling at their heartstrings. 

As a rule they get on with persons whose birth date is 
one of the series of 3. 6, or 9, such as those born on the 
3rd, 6th, 9th, 12th, 15th, 18th, 21st, 24th, 27th, or 30th 
of any month. All these numbers are in harmonious vibra¬ 
tion to the number 9 people. 

This number 9 has some very curious properties. It is 
the only number in calculation that, multiplied by any 
number, always reproduces itself, as for example 9 times 
2 is 18, and 8 plus 1 becomes again the 9, and so on with 
every number it is multiplied by. 

It is, perhaps, not uninteresting to notice that: 

At the 9th day the ancients buried their dead. 

At the 9th hour the Saviour died on the Cross. 

The Romans held a feast in memory of their dead every 
9th year. 

In some of the Hebrew writings it is taught that God 
has 9 times descended to this earth: 

1st in the Garden of Eden, 

2nd at the confusion of tongues at Babel, 

3rd at the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah, 

4th to Moses at Horeb, 

5th at Sinai when the Ten Commandments were given, 

6th to Balaam, 

7th to Elisha, 

8th in the Tabernacle, 

9th in the Temple at Jerusalem, 

and it is taught that at the 10th coming this earth will pass away 

and a new one will be created. 

Both the First and Second Temples of the Jews were 
destroyed on the 9th day of the Jewish month called Ab. 
On the 9th day of Ab Jews who follow their religion cannot 
wear the Talith and Phylacteries until the Sun has set. 
c 



66 CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

There are so many curious things connected with the 
number 9 that it would not be possible to deal with one- 
half of them in a book of this description. 

This number is supposed to be a fortunate one to be 
born under, provided one controls it and is not carried 
away by the excesses of temper and violence that it also 
represents. 

The ‘‘lucky” colours for persons bom under the number 
9 are all shades of crimson or red, also all rose tones and 
pink. 

Their most important days in the week are Tuesday, 
Thursday, and Friday, but more especially Tuesday (called 
Mars Day). 

Number 9 people should endeavour to carry out their 
plans and aims on all days that fall under their "own 
number,’’ such as the 9th, 18th, or 27th in any month, but 
more especially when these dates fall in the "period of the 
9,” between the 21st March and April I9th-26th, or from 
the 21st October to November 20th-27th. And when the 
9th, 18th, or 27th falls on their “own day,” as mentioned 
above, or one of their interchangeable numbers which are 
the 3 and 6, such as the 3rd, 6th, 12th, 15th, 21st, 24th, 
and 30th. 

Their "lucky" stones are the ruby, garnet, and blood¬ 
stone, and they should wear one of these stones next 
their skin. 

For all purposes of occult calculation the numbers 7 and 
9 are considered the most important of all. 

The 7 has always been understood to relate to the spiritual 
plane, acting as the God or creative force on the Earth, 
and being creative, it is the uplifting "urge" towards the 
higher development of the spiritual in humanity. 

The 9 on the contrary, being, in the Planetary World, 
the representative of the Planet Mars, is the number of 
physical force in every form, and consequently stands in 
relation to the material. 

When this explanation is carefully considered it throws 
an illuminating light on that mysterious text in Revelation, 
chapter xiii. verse 18: "Here is wisdom. Let him that hath 



CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 67 

understanding count the number of the beast, for it is the 
number of man, and his number is 666.” 

This strange text has puzzled the theological mind for 
centuries, yet if you will take the trouble to add 666 together 
you will get 18, and 1 plus 8 gives you the figure 9, which in 
tum represents the 9 Planets of our Solar System, the 9 
numbers upon which man builds all his calculations, and 
beyond which he cannot go except by continual repetition 
of the numbers 1 to 9. 

‘'6 6 6” producing its "spirit number" (as explained in 
the preceding page) of 9 is therefore, in all truth as Revela¬ 
tion states, "the number of man.” 

The hidden meaning of this number is one of the greatest 
secrets of occultism, and has been concealed in a thousand 
ways, just as the cryptic text in Revelation has hidden it 
for centuries from the minds of Theologians. 

The number 9 representing man and everything to do 
with the physical and material plane, is the number of 
force, energy, destruction and war in its most dominant 
quality. In its relation to ordinary life it denotes energy, 
ambition, leadership, dominion. It represents iron, the 
metal from which the weapons of warfare are made, and the 
Planet Mars which it stands for in Astrology is the Ruler 
of the Zodiacal Sign Aries which is the Sign of the Zodiac 
which governs England. This symbolism was evidently 
well known by Shakespeare when he wrote, "England, thou 
seat of Mars.” 

The number 9 is an emblem of matter that can never be 
destroyed, so the number 9 when multiplied by any number 
always reproduces itself, no matter what the extent of the 
number is that has been employed. 

The Novendiale was a fast in the Roman Catholic Church 
to avert calamities, and from this came the Roman Catholic 
system of Neuvaines. 

In Freemasonry there is an Order of "Nine Elected 
Knights,” and in the working of this Order 9 roses, 9 lights 
and 9 knocks must be used. 

All ancient races encouraged a fear of the number 9, and 
all its multiples. 



68 CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

The number 9 is considered a fortunate number to be 
born under, provided the man or woman does not ask for 
a peaceful or monotonous life, and can control their nature 
in not making enemies. 

The following are a few illustrations of such birthdays: 


Kaiser Wilhelm 
King Edward VII 
Sir Evelyn Wood, V.C. 
President Theodore Roose¬ 
velt (U.S.A.) . 

President Grover Cleveland 
(U.S.A.) . 

Lord Carson ( Irish Leader) . 
Sam Gompers ( Labour 
Leader, U.S.A.) . 

Ernest Renan (Author) 
President Ulysses Grant 
Sir James Barrie (Author) . 
Julia Ward Howe (0/ Battle- 
Hymn fame) . 

Jay Gould (Financier) 
Elizabeth, Empress of Aus¬ 
tria .... 
Franz Josef, Emperor of 
Austria 

Frederick III of Germany . 
Kepler (Astronomer) . 

Louis Kossuth (Hungarian 
Patriot) 

Leopold II, of Belgium 
Nicholas II, of Russia 
Paganini (Violinist) . 
Whitelaw Reid ( Statesman) 
George Stephenson (Inven¬ 
tor of Steam Engine) 


Born 

27th Jan. 

Represents a 9 

II 

9th Nov. 

II 

.. 9 

11 

9th Feb. 

II 

.. 9 

II 

27th Oct. 

II 

.. 9 

II 

18th Mar. 

99 

•• 9 

II 

qth Feb. 

99 

.. 9 

»» 

27th Jan. 

99 

.. 9 

• 1 

27th Feb. 

99 

.. 9 

99 

27th April 

99 

.. 9 

99 

9th May 

II 

.. 9 

II 

27th May 

II 

» 9 

II 

27th May 

II 

.. 9 

II 

18th Aug. 

II 

.. 9 

II 

18th Aug. 

99 

.. 9 

99 

18th Oct. 

99 

.. 9 

P* 

27th Dec. 

99 

» 9 

• 1 

27th April 

• 1 

» 9 

99 

9th April 

99 

» 9 

M 

18th May 

99 

.. 9 

• 1 

18th Feb. 

99 

» 9 

>1 

27th Oct. 

99 

» 9 

99 

9th June 

99 

.. 9 




CHAPTER XII 


THE OCCULT SYMBOLISM OF "COMPOUND" NUMBERS, 
WITH ILLUSTRATIONS 

I AM now going to put before my readers one of the most 
amazing systems comprised in the occult calculations 
of names and numbers that it has been my good fortune 
to elucidate. This system, which has never before been 
made public on the lines I am going to present it, will, I 
know, be of inestimable value to those who may care to 
follow the rules I shall give. 

I feel sure, from long experience, that the occult philo¬ 
sophy I am now about to pass on will be of the greatest 
practical utility to every man or woman, who wishes for aid 
in the hard struggle for existence that is, alas, the fate'of 
so many sons and daughters of humanity. 

Shakespeare, that Prince of Philosophers, whose thoughts 
will adorn English literature for all time, laid down the 
well-known axiom: "There is a tide in the affairs of men 
which, taken at the flood, leads on to fortune." The ques¬ 
tion has been asked again and again: Is there some means 
of knowing when the moment has come to take the tide at 
the flood ? 

My answer to this question is, that the Great Architect 
of the Universe in His Infinite Wisdom so created all 
things in such harmony of design that He endowed the 
human mind with some part of that omnipotent knowledge 
which is the attribute of the Divine Mind as the Creator 
of all. 

It is this desire for knowledge implanted in the mind 
of humanity that places mankind above the animal creation, 
and makes men and women as "gods” in their desire "to 
know.” 

We are told that Solomon the King asked to be given 
Wisdom as the greatest gift that God could give him, and 

69 



70 CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

in the ancient Hebrew of the Book of Solomon we can yet 

read his inspiring words: 

I thank Thee, O Great Creator of the Universe, that Thou 
hast taught me the secrets of the Planets, that I mayst know the 
Times and Seasons of Things, the secrets of men's hearts, their 
thoughts, and the nature of their being. Thou gavest unto 
me this knowledge which is the foundation of all my Wisdom. 

It is these self-same "Secrets of the Planets" that I 
have endeavoured to teach in these pages. 

I now ask my readers to give their attention and concen¬ 
tration to the following system which I will put as briefly 
and in as clear language as possible. 

To find the exact day in any month of the year whose 
vibration will be favourable, or in other words “lucky” 
to any individual, the simplest rule is to work out by the 
following table the occult number produced by the letters 
of their name. 

This ancient Chaldean and Hebrew alphabet sets out the 
number or value of each letter. It is the best system I 
know for this purpose; its origin is lost in antiquity, but it 
is believed that it was originated by the Chaldeans, who 
were masters in all magical arts, and by them passed to 
the Hebrews. 



It will be seen that there is no number 9 given in the 
above alphabet, for the simple reason that those ancient 



CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 71 

masters of Occultism knew that in the “Highest Sphere” 
the number 9 represents the 9-lettered name of God, and 
for this reason no single letter was ascribed to it. 

If, however, the letters in a name should total up and 
produce the number 9, the meaning of it is that given as 
I set out in the previous chapter dealing with the number 
9, and for the compound numbers of the 9 such as the 18, 
27, etc. 

The next important question to answer is the following: 
Are all the Christian and Surnames to be added together to 
tind the last digit or number? 

The answer to that is, that it is the most used Christian 
and Surname that must be added together to give the Key 
number; when the Surname is more used or more in evi¬ 
dence than the Christian name, then it is taken to give the 
Key number. 

I have only space in a book of this description to give 
illustrations of a few well-known names. One I will take 
was always spoken of as Lloyd George—the other, Ex-Prime 
Minister, was called simply Baldwin. 

The names Lloyd George and the Ex-Prime Minister of 
England, if transcribed into numbers are as follows: 



B = 2 
A = 1 

L = 3 
D = 4 

W = 6 
1 = 1 

N = 5 

22 = 4 



72 CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

In Lloyd George’s case, the word Lloyd alone produces 
the single number of 9, which, as I have previously explained, 
is connected with persons who have a hard tight with 
circumstances in their early lives and who, if they rise to 
positions of authority in nations, are often the cause of 
wars or (as with Lloyd George) play an active part in them. 

The word George in itself produces the single number 
of 7. This is, as 1 have also previously explained, a magnetic 
number, and favourable if used by itself. In this case, 
however, the two names are never used alone, but always 
together, as Lloyd George: now add the two single numbers 
of each name together—7 plus 9 and you get the compound 
number of 16, the occult symbolism of which is “a Shattered 
Citadel" or "a Lightning-struck Tower.” A full descrip¬ 
tion of the compound numbers will be found later in these 
pages. 

If, however, the word David were added it would produce 
another 7, and if the name,David Lloyd George was em¬ 
ployed in continuous use instead of Lloyd George, the 
addition of the 7 for the word David would make the total 
of the three names the number 23, which, as will be seen in 
Chapter XIII dealing with the meaning of the compound 
numbers, is considered a fortunate number. 

However, by some hidden law of destiny over which man 
has no control, he became known and called Lloyd George, 
and so this name foreshadowed that he would one day in 
his marvellous career fulfil the symbolism of "a Shattered 
Citadel" or "a Lightning-struck Tower.” 

The other Ex-Prime Minister was for some unknown reason 
never called by his political followers or the general public 
anything else but Baldwin. This name, as you will notice, 
totals up to the number 22, and in its single ligure to a 4. 

The number 4, as I explained in a previous chapter, is 
not considered a fortunate number; people under it are 
usually misunderstood. They work hard and strive earn¬ 
estly to carry out their ideas, but their plans are difficult 
and usually meet with great opposition. 

Taking again these two well-known public leaders for 
another illustration, I now come to the most curious side 



CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 73 

of this study of numerology, namely, that the "compound" 
numbers have an extraordinary meaning of their own, which 
throws an added light on the mysterious connection they 
have in the still deeper side of occultism as applied to 
people’s names. 

Taking again the name Lloyd George, we find the first 
word Lloyd gives the "compound” number 18. In occult 
symbolism this number is represented as "a rayed moon 
from which blood is dropping like rain; in a field below a 
wolf and a dog are catching drops of blood in their opened 
mouths." 

Taking the word George, the "compound” number is 
25. In symbolism this number is classed as "a number of 
strength gained by experience and ultimate gain through 
strife.” 

The conclusion therefore is that if Lloyd George had 
become known in the world as plain George he would 
have retained to the end the high position he had 
gained. 

Lloyd George was born on January 17th; he was there¬ 
for by his birth a number 8 man, which is unfortunately 
not in harmonious vibration with his name number, and 
further, by being an 8, increases the fatalistic indications 
given by the number of his name—a 16. 

The "compound” number of 22, made by the name 
Baldwin, in the same occult symbolism of numbers is not 
at all favourable from a purely worldly sense as a leader 
of men. The single number of a name, it must be remem¬ 
bered, represents the man or woman as they appear to be. 
The "double" or "compound” number represents the 
hidden forces that use the man or woman as their instrum/, nt. 
The symbolism of the number 22 is “a good man blin ; ed 
by the folly of others, with a knapsack on his back full 
of Errors; he offers no defence against a ferocious tiger 
who is biting him.” 

I have, of course, no political leanings in any direction; 
I merely as your mentor in these studies 
"Sketch your world exactly as it goes—without offence— 
to friends or foes.” 



74 CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

and have only quoted the symbolism given to these numbers 

since the most ancient times. 


SIR AUSTEN CHAMBERLAIN 

As Sir Austen Chamberlain was generally spoken of as 
Austen Chamberlain, his numbers are as follows: 


A 

U 

S 

T 

E 

N 




= 5 


Both the single numbers and the compound numbers 
in this name are singularly fortunate, especially if used 
separately, as I have explained in a previous chapter; the 
number 6 is usually found associated with persons who 
rise to high positions of authority—especially in political 
life. 

The compound number 24 is also favourable, and in 
occult symbolism it is put down as a number that brings 
"the assistance and association of people of high rank, 
and gain through such association.” 

The simple number of 5, as in the name Chamberlain, is, 
as I said on a previous page, a "lucky” number, especially 
for those who lead changeable lives with a large element of 
risk, change, and speculation involved in their career; 
while the compound number of 32 is also given in occult 
symbolism as a magical number and is put down 
as associated with what is called "the Paths of 
Wisdom.” 



CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 75 

His title of “Sir” produces the number 6, again a 
favourable number, and if we now add the single numbers 
of all the three together, we get 6 plus 6 plus 5 equals 17, 
a compound number whose occult symbolism is curiously 
enough the 8-pointed Star of Venus, a symbol of Peace and 
Love, which is peculiarly suitable for the career of a man 
who made superhuman efforts towards bringing peace 
between nations at Locarno. If, however, he was only 
known as Austen Chamberlain, the total of these two 
words produce the number 11, which, as my readers will 
see farther on, gives warning of “hidden dangers, trial 
and treachery from others.” 

Sir Austen Chamberlain was bom on October 16th. 
Neither the single number of 7 nor the compound 
are in harmonious vibration with the number of his 
name. This was not a favourable promise for a successful 
ending of his career, as is explained later on in these 
pages. 


RAMSAY MACDONALD 

We will take the first Labour Prime Minister of 
England for our next illustration. His numbers are as 
follows: 

R 
A 
M 
S 
A 
Y 


32 = 5 



It will be seen that the name Ramsay produces 3 as its 
simple number and 12 for its compound number. 

As I have explained earlier in this book, the single 
number denotes the person as he appears to be in the eyes 



76 CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

of his fellow mortals, while the compound number repre¬ 
sents the hidden forces in the background of the career. 

In this case, the single number 3 is strong and powerful, 
and is generally associated with ambitious people who 
gain positions of authority and who do especially well in 
government departments. 

The occult symbolism of the compound number 12 is, 
however, that of "the Victim or the Sacrifice." 

The letters of the name MacDonald produce the single 
number of 5, an excellent number, as I explained before, 
and the compound number 32 is, as in the case of Sir Austen 
Chamberlain, also a good number with its symbolism of 
"the Paths of Wisdom." 

The addition, however, of the two single numbers of the 
name Ramsay MacDonald, 5 plus 3, produces an 8, a number 
which, I have explained earlier, represents two worlds, the 
material and the spiritual, one side associated with philo¬ 
sophic thought, concentration of purpose and 7 .ea! for any 
cause espoused, the other representing upheavals and revo¬ 
lutions. 

'I his combination, taken with the meaning of the com¬ 
pound number that stands for his Christian name giving 
the symbolism of "the Victim or the Sacrifice," fore¬ 
shadowed very clearly that Ramsay MacDonald, no matter 
what his great qualities, would in the end be made "the 
victim” or “the sacrifice" of his political party and be 
associated in his career with upheavals and revolutions. 

The addition of the numbers of the two names 12 and 32 
produces the compound number of 44, which in the explana¬ 
tion of compound numbers given in Chapter XIII reads: 
"This number is full of the gravest warnings for the future. 
It foreshadows disasters brought about by association with 
others." A decidedly ominous indication of the future of 
the leader of one of England’s political parties. Further, 
as he was born on October 12th, the single number of which 
is a 3, this is not in harmonious vibration with his Name 
number, an 8. Consequently one might have expected 
a great deal of muddle and jumble to be associated with 
his career. 



CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 77 

If this man had really understood the extraordinary 
meaning there is in a name when transcribed into numbers, 
he would never have allowed his party or his public to call 
him by the single word Ramsay. He should never have 
allowed such familiarity, but insisted on being called, if 
he could do it, by the single word MacDonald with its 
magical number of 32. 

Later on in this book (Chapter XXXI) will be found 
examples from the names of Presidents of the United States 
such as George Washington, Abraham Lincoln, Grover 
Cleveland, Warren G. Harding, Theodore Roosevelt, Wood- 
row Wilson, Calvin Coolidge, and Herbert Hoover. 
***** 

In the following chapter I will explain the symbolism 
that from the most ancient times has been given to what 
is called “compound numbers,” and at the same time I 
will give the system I have alluded to at the beginning of 
this chapter, whereby readers will be able to understand 
how it is that they can know when the “lucky” day comes, 
so that they may be able to take hold of any good oppor¬ 
tunity which may present itself. 



CHAPTER XIII 


THE “COMPOUND" OR “SPIRITUAL" 

NUMBERS FULLY DESCRIBED 

I N the preceding chapters I have given the meanings 
of what are called the principal or "single" numbers— 
also called the “root” numbers—from i to 9. I will now 
proceed with the next step in this curious study of Numer¬ 
ology, namely, the explanation of the occult symbolism 
given to what are called the “double” or “compound" 
numbers, and how such knowledge may be made use of 
in everyday life. 

Although this is a much more advanced and more diffi¬ 
cult part of the study of numbers, I will endeavour to make 
it as clear and as easy to understand as I have endeavoured 
to do with the single numbers in the earlier chapters. 

Before launching out into this side of the subject, I must, 
I feel, give a few words of explanation so as to prepare 
my readers for what is to follow. 

I have already explained that the single numbers denote 
what the man or woman appears io be in the eyes of their 
fellow mortals, while the double or compound numbers 
show the hidden influences that play their role behind the 
scenes as it were, and in some mysterious way often fore¬ 
shadow the future or the hidden current of destiny of the 
individual. 

When one passes the major or root numbers of 1 to 9, 
what is called the greater symbolism of numbers com¬ 
mences, and continues until 5 times 9 is reached, or the 
number 45; at this point the mystical number of 7 is brought 
into operation and added to the number of 45, producing 
52, which stands for the 52 weeks of a year. This number 
of 52, multiplied by 7, gives 364 as the ordinary days of 
the year in that ancient period of Time when trade unionism 
had not made its appearance. These ancient and wonderful 
people, however, used the 365th day of each year as the 

78 



CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 79 

one great festival holiday of all, and no work of any kind was 
allowed to be done by man, woman, child, or beast. This 
number of 365 is based on the passage of the Sun through 
the twelve divisions of the Zodiac, which is the origin of 
the calculation of the year period which is found in every 
civilisation. 

As I said before, the meaning of the single numbers from 
1 to 9 represents how the man or woman appears in the eyes 
of his fellows. They are the numbers of individuality and 
personality. 

All numbers from 10 up become in symbolism "double’' 
or "compound” numbers; the 12, if we take it for an 
example, has for its root or fadic number a single number 
such as the 3, but at the same time the 1 and 2 of which 
the twelve is composed are "compound” and have a 
meaning of their own distinct from the number 3. 

How and in what age these "compound" numbers be¬ 
came illustrated by symbolism, we do not know and never 
can know. We can only say that they appear to have 
always existed. 

Symbols may be called the Language of Nature, and as 
such we must take them. 

The meanings ascribed to the numbers x to 9 belong then 
to the physical or material side of things, and "compound" 
numbers from 10 on belong to the more occult or spiritual 
side of life. Distinct symbolism has been given to the 
“compound” numbers up to that mysterious number of 52, 
and this symbolism I will now proceed to give in as clear 
language as it may be possible to translate them. I have 
already illustrated in a previous chapter by examples 
from names such as Lloyd George, Baldwin, Austen Cham¬ 
berlain, and Ramsay MacDonald, the information one is 
able to get by knowing the meaning of the "compound" 
number and using it in relation to the information given by 
the single number, but later on it will be my privilege to 
explain a still more practical application of this knowledge 
which will enable one actually to pick out what days will be 
fortunate and what will be unfortunate, which will be, I 
think, of inestimable value to my readers. 



80 CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

The universally accepted symbolism of the compound 
numbers in ancient times was given in pictures and may 
still be found in the Tarot Cards which have been handed 
down to us from the most distant ages and whose origin is 
lost in antiquity. 

10. Symbolised as the "Wheel of Fortune." It is a number of 
honour, of faith and self-confidence, of rise and fall; one’s 
name will be known for good or evil, according to one's 
desires; it is a fortunate number in the sense that one's 
plans are likely to be carried out. 

11. This is an ominous number to occultists. It gives warning 
of hidden dangers, trial, and treachery from others. It has 
a symbol of "a Clenched Hand," and “a Lion Muzzled,” 
and of a person who will have great difficulties to contend 
against. 

12. The symbolism of this number is suffering and anxiety of 
mind. It is also indicated as "the Sacrifice” or "the Victim” 
and generally foreshadows one being sacrificed for the plans 
or intrigues of others. 

13. This is a number indicating change of plans, place, and 
such-like, and is not unfortunate, as is generally supposed. 
In some of the ancient writings it is said, "He who under¬ 
stands the number 13 will be given power and dominion." 
It is symbolised by the picture of "a Skeleton” or "Death,” 
with a scythe reaping down men, in a field of new-grown 
grass where young faces and heads appear cropping up on 
every side. It is a number of upheaval and destruction. 
It is a symbol of " Power” which if wrongly used will wreak 
destruction upon itself. It is a number of warning of the 
unknown or unexpected, if it becomes a “compound" 
number in one's calculations. 

14. This is a number of movement, combination of people and 
things, and danger from natural forces, such as tempests, 
water, air, or fire. This number is fortunate for dealings 
with money, speculation, and changes in business, but 
there is always a strong element of risk and danger attached 
to it, but generally owing to the actions and foolhardiness 
of others. If this number comes out in calculations of 
future events the person should be warned to act with 
caution and prudence. 

15. This is a number of occult significance, of magic and mystery; 
but as a rule it does not represent the higher side of occul- 



CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 81 

tism, its meaning being that the persons represented by it 
will use every art of magic they can to carry out their 
purpose. If associated with a good or fortunate single 
number, it can be very lucky and powerful, but if associated 
with one of the peculiar numbers, such as a 4 o ' an 8, the 
person it represents will not scruple to use any sort of art, or 
even " black magic,” to gain what he or she desires. 

It is peculiarly associated with "good talkers,” often 
with eloquence, gifts of Music and Art and a dramatic 
personality, combined with a certain voluptuous tempera¬ 
ment and strong personal magnetism. For obtaining money, 
gifts, and favours from others it is a fortunate number. 

16. This number has a most peculiar occult symbolism. It is 
pictured by "a Tower Struck by Lightning from which a 
man is falling with a Crown on his head.” It is also called 
"the Shattered Citadel." 

It gives warning of some strange fatality awaiting one, 
also danger of accidents and defeat of one’s plans. If it 
appears as a "compound” number relating to the future, 
it is a warning sign that should be carefully noted and plans 
made in advance in the endeavour to avert its fatalistic 
tendency. 

17. This is a highly spiritual number, and is expressed in sym¬ 
bolism by the 8-pointed Star of Venus: a symbol of " Peace 
and Love.” It is also called “the Star of the Magi” and 
expresses that the person it represents has risen superior 
in spirit to the trials and difficulties of his life or his career. 
It is considered a "number of immortality" and that the 
person's name “lives after him.” It is a fortunate number 
if it works out in relation to future events, provided it is 
not associated with the single numbers of fours and eights. 

18. This number has a difficult symbolism to translate. It is 
pictured as “a rayed moon from which drops of blood are 
falling; a wolf and a hungry dog are seen below catching 
the falling drops of blood in their opened mouths, while still 
lower a crab is seen hastening to join then.” It is symbolic 
of materialism striving to destroy the spiritual side of the 
nature. It generally associates a person with bitter quarrels, 
even family ones, also with war, social upheavals, revolu¬ 
tions; and in some cases it indicates making money and 
position through wars or by wars. It is, however, a warning 
of treachery, deception by others, also danger from the 
elements, such as storms, danger from water, fires and 



82 CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

explosions. When this ‘'compound” number appears in 
working out dates in advance, such a date should be taken 
with a great amount of care, caution, and circumspection. 

19. This number is regarded as fortunate and extremely favour¬ 
able. It is symbolised as "the Sun” and is called "the 
Prince of Heaven.” It is a number promising happiness, 
success, esteem and honour, and promises success in one's 
plans for the future. 

20. This number is called "the Awakening”; also "the Judg¬ 
ment.” It is symbolised by the figure of a winged angel 
sounding a trumpet, while from below a man, a woman, 
and a child are seen rising from a tomb with their hands 
clasped in prayer. 

This number has a peculiar interpretation: the awakening 
of new purpose, new plans, new ambitions, the call to action, 
but for some great purpose, cause or duty. It is not a 
material number and consequently is a doubtful one as far 
as worldly success is concerned. 

If used in relation to a future event, it denotes delays, 
hindrances to one’s plans, which can only be conquered 
through the development of the spiritual side of the nature. 

21. This number is symbolised by the picture of "the Uni¬ 
verse," and it is also called “the Crown of the Magi.” It 
is a number of advancement, honours, elevation in life, and 
general success. It means victory after a long tight, for 
“the Crown of the Magi” is only gained after long initiation 
and tests of determination. It is a fortunate number of 
promise if it appears in any connection with future events. 

22. This number is symbolised by "a Good Man blinded by the 
folly of others, with a knapsack on his back full of Errors.” 
In this picture he appears to offer no defence against a 
ferocious tiger which is attacking him. It is a warning 
number of illusion and delusion, a good person who lives 
in a fool’s paradise; a dreamer of dreams who awakens 
only when surrounded by danger. It is also a number of 
false judgment owing to the influence of others. 

As a number in connection with future events its warning 
and meaning should be carefully noted. 

23. This number is called "the Royal Star of the Lion.” It 
is a promise of success, help from superiors and protection 
from those in high places. In dealing with future events it 
is a most fortunate number and a promise of success for one's 
plans. 



CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 83 

24. This number is also fortunate; it promises the assistance 
and association of those of rank and position with one’s 
plans; it also denotes gain through love and the opposite 
sex; it is a favourable number when it comes out in relation 
to future events. 

25. This is a number denoting strength gained through exper¬ 
ience, and benefits obtained through observation of people 
and things. It is not deemed exactly "lucky," as its success 
is given through strife and trials in the earlier life. It is 
favourable when it appears in regard to the future. 

26. This number is full of the gravest warnings for the future. 
It foreshadows disasters brought about by association with 
others; ruin, by bad speculations, by partnerships, unions, 
and bad advice. 

If it comes out in connection with future events one 
should carefully consider the path one is treading. 

27. This is a good number and is symbolised as “the Sceptre." 
It is a promise of authority, power, and command. It indi¬ 
cates that reward will come from the productive intellect; 
that the creative faculties have sown good seeds that will 
reap a harvest. Persons with this "compound” number at 
their back should carry out their own ideas and plans. 
It is a fortunate number if it appears in any connection 
with future events. 

28. This number is full of contradictions. It indicates a person 
of great promise and possibilities who is likely to sec all 
taken away from him unless he carefully provides for the 
future. It indicates loss through trust in others, opposition 
and competition in trade, danger of loss through law, and 
the likelihood of having to begin life's road over and over 
again. 

It is not a fortunate number for the indication of future 
events. 

29. This number indicates uncertainties, treachery, and decep¬ 
tion of others; it foreshadows trials, tribulation, and un¬ 
expected dangers, unreliable friends, and grief and decep¬ 
tion caused by members of the opposite sex. It gives grave 
warning if it comes out in anything concerning future events. 

30. This is a number of thoughtful deduction, retrospection, 
and mental superiority over one’s fellows, but, as it seems 
to belong completely to the mental plane, the persons it 
represents are likely to put all material things on one side 
—not because they have to, but because they wish to do so 



84 CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

For this reason it is neither fortunate nor unfortunate, for 
either depends on the mental outlook of the person it 
represents. It can be all powerful, but it is just as often 
indifferent according to the. will or desire of the person. 

31. This number is very similar to the preceding one, except 
that the person it represents is even more self-contained, 
lonely, and isolated from his fellows. It is not a fortunate 
number from a worldly or material standpoint. 

32. This number has a magical power like the single 5, or the 
"compound" numbers 14 and 23. It is usually associated 
with combinations of people or nations. It is a fortunate 
number if the person it represents holds to his own judg¬ 
ment and opinions; if not, his plans are likely to become 
wrecked by the stubbornness and stupidity of others. It 
is a favourable number if it appears in connection with 
future events. 

33. This number has no potency of its own, and consequently 
has the same meaning as the 24—which is also a 6— and 
the next to it in its own series of "compound" numbers. 

34. Has the same meaning as the number 25, which is the next 
to it in its own series of "compound” numbers. 

35. Has the same meaning as the number 2b, which is the next 
to it in its own series of "compound" numbers. 

36. Has the same meaning as the number 27, which is the next 
to it in its own series of "compound” numbers. 

37. This number has a distinct potency of its own. It is a 
number of good and fortunate friendships in love, and in 
combinations connected with the opposite sex. It is also 
good for partnerships of all kinds. It is a fortunate indica¬ 
tion if it appears in connection with future events. 

38. Has the same meaning as the number 29, which is the 
next to it in its own series of "compound" numbers. 

39. Has the same meaning as the number 30, which is the next 
to it in its own series of "compound" numbers. 

40. Has the same meaning as the number 31, which is next to 
it in its own series of “compound” numbers. 

41. Has the same meaning as the number 32, which is next to 
it in its own series of "compound” numbers. 

42. Has the same meaning as the number 24. 

43. This is an unfortunate number. It is symbolised by the 
signs of revolution, upheaval, strife, failure, and prevention, 
and is not a fortunate number if it comes out in calculations 
relating to future events. 



CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 85 

44. Has the same meaning as 26. 

45. Has the same meaning as 27. 

4(1. Has the same meaning as 37. 

47. Has the same meaning as 29. 

48. Has the same meaning as 30. 

49. Has the same meaning as 31. 

50. Has the same meaning as 32. 

51. This number lias a very powerful potency of its own. It 
represents the nature of the warrior; it promises sudden 
advancement in whatever one undertakes; it is especially 
favourable for those in military or naval life and for leaders 
in any cause. At the same time it threatens enemies, danger, 
and the likelihood of assassination. 

52. Has the same meaning as 43. 

We have now completed the 52 numbers which represent 
the 52 weeks of our year, and for all practical purposes 
there is no necessity to proceed further. I will now show 
my readers the method of employing the symbolism of 
these "compound” numbers, together with the "single” 
numbers whose meaning they have learned earlier in this 
book. 

The rule to follow is: One must add the date one wishes 
to know about to the total of the compound numbers of 
one’s name, see what number this gives one and read the 
meaning I have given to the added number. 

Example. —I will suppose you wish to know if, say, Monday 
the 26th April will be a favourable day for you to carry out some 
plan: let us say, to ask for a rise in your position or in your 
wages. Take the number given to each letter of your name from 
the alphabet I have shown you, add to the total "compound” 
number or its single digit the number given by the addition of 
I he. 26th April, 2 plus 6 an 8, add this 8 to the total of your 
Name number and Birth number and look up the meaning I 
have given to the final number produced, and you will find at 
once whether Monday, the 26th, will be favourable to you or 
not. If you see that it does not give a fortunate number, then 
add the next day, the 27th, or the next until you come to a 
date that is indicated as favourable. Act on the favourable date 
thus shown, and you will find that the day thus indicated will 
he fortunate for you. 




86 CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

Suppose your name to be John Smith born 8th January, 
work the name out as follows: 



Example.— You now add the 9 and the 8 together, which 
gives you the "compound'' number of 17, whose units added 
together give 8. To this add the 8 produced by similar means 
from the 26th April, this gives you the number 16, with 7 for 
the single number; now add the Birth number 8th January to 
this 7 and you obtain 15 for the last compound number with f> 
for the last single number. 

Look up the meaning I have given to the compound Number 15: 
you will find it stated "for obtaining money, gifts, and favours 
from others, it is a fortunate number.” Therefore the occult 
influences playing on John Smith, born 8th January, would be 
favourable on the 26th April for his using that date to ask favours 
or carry out his plans. If it had not given favourable indications 
** John Smith" should then work out the 27th April, or the next 
day or the next, until he found a date indicated as fortunate. 

The same rule applies for every name and every date of birth. 



CHAPTER XIV 


MORE INFORMATION OF HOW TO USE "SINGLE” AND 
"compound" NUMBERS 

F OLLOWING the publication of some articles I pub¬ 
lished in a leading London paper, I received some 
thousands of letters asking for further information 
as to how to make the Birth number and the Name 
number accord. I have, therefore, worked out the following 
example. 

If possible, make the Birth number and the number 
given by the Name agree; the vibrations will then all be 
in harmony, and will give a greater promise of success if 
the number is a favourable one. 

As an illustration, take again the example I gave in the 


previous chapter, of John Smith; 


J = 1 

S = 3 

0=7 

M = 4 

H = 5 

I = 1 

N = 5 

T = 4 

H = 5 

18=1 plus 8 =9 

17=1 plus 7=8 


The single number of John totals a 9, and the single 
number of Smith equals an 8; the 8 and 9 added together 
make 17, and 1 plus 7 makes 8. The number of the entire 
Name is therefore an 8. If John Smith were born on any 
day making an 8, such as the 8th, 17th, or 26th of a month, 
the number of the Name and the number of the Birth 
would then be in harmony, and although the 8 is not such a 
lucky number to have in an ordinary way, yet in such a 
case there would be no clash in the numbers', and if John 
Smith, knowing this, used the dates making an 8, such as 
the 8th, 17th, or 26th, for his important transactions, he 
would find himself more fortunate. 

87 



88 CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

If, on the contrary, he had another number, say 2, as 
his Birth number, such as the 2nd, nth, 20th, or 29th, his 
Name and his Birth number would not be .in vibration 
one to the other, and there would always be a muddle or 
jumble in his affairs, and he would also not be able to 
decide which number to act on or what date he should use. 

As he cannot alter his Birth number, then the thing 
to do is to alter the Name number. If he added a letter 
making a 3 to his name, such as a C, a G, an L, or an S, 
which in the Alphabet I gave in a previous chapter have the 
number 3, and wrote his name, say, “John C. Smith,’’ or 
“John G. Smith,” and insisted on being known and called 
as that, this new Number 3, added to the 17, which John 
Smith made before, would now give a total of 20, or a 
single number of 2, and then both the Name number and 
the Birth number would be in harmonious vibration together, 
and he would also be sure that he would be right in selecting 
any date that makes a 2, such as the 2nd, nth, 20th, or 
29th of any month, as the most favourable day to make 
any change or carry out any important plan. 

If, however, “John Smith” was born under an 8, such 
as the 8th, 17th, or 26th of any month, as the total of the 
numbers of his name also make an 8, 1 would then not 
advise him to add a letter or change the Name number, 
but to work under the 8, as I explained earlier. 

Surely, this is a simple, clear rule, and will help those 
countless readers who may be puzzled as to how to get 
their Name number and Birth number to accord. 

However, if a person is born under either of those peculiar 
numbers such as a 4 or an 8, and if the Name number should 
also total up to a 4 when one is born under an 8, or to an 8 
when one is born under a 4, then for material success it 
would be better if one added some letter, as I explained in 
the case of John Smith, so that the total of your number 
is no longer a 4 or an 8, but one with a more fortunate 
vibration, making, say, a 1, 3, 6, or 9. Such a change 
in the majority of cases will produce most fortunate results 
and set up entirely new vibrations, which will change a 
lonely, unlucky life into one of happiness and success. 



CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 89 

I would also strongly advise all those who have the 
combination of 4 and 8 when they make the change by 
altering their name to produce another number, such as a 
1, 3, 6, or 9, to wear the colours and jewels I have set out 
for these numbers in an earlier chapter in this book dealing 
with "single" numbers, and I am absolutely confident 
that they will never regret having followed my advice. 

I also advise that in order to get the best advantage out 
of one's numbers, that in living in cities and towns a person 
should select a house to live in whose number also gives 
the same vibration as the Birth and Name number. If 
they live in the country they should give a name to their 
house which produces the same number as the Birth and 
Name. Especially in the case of a person having an 8 for 
the Birth number and a 4 for the Name number, or vice 
versa, they should, under no circumstances, live in a house 
whose number worked out to the single digit of a 4 or an 8. 



CHAPTER XV 


WHY THE BIRTH NUMBER IS THE MOST IMPORTANT 

T HE Birth number is the easiest and clearest to use 
for everyday matters, and for all those who are not 
advanced students in occult symbolism. It indicates 
with authority and decision the exact date for action, 
namely a date which will be in accord and harmony with 
the Birth number, and the rules concerning it are simple 
and easy to understand. 

A person bom on, say, the xst, 10th, 19th, or 28th, of any 
month will be quite safe in picking out any one of these 
dates as the best date for any important action. As the 
number 4 is what may be called the feminine or negative 
side of the 1, he or she can take this number as an associate 
number, but on account of the peculiar qualities of this 
number 1 I do not advise it to be chosen for any worldly 
or material affairs. This number 4 will generally be found 
by number 1 persons as coming into their lives "on its 
own,” if I may be permitted to describe its action as such, 
but more in the nature of a fatalistic number which has an 
influence on their lives outside of their control and certainly 
not always connected with the happier side of life. In many 
instances of number 1 people in my collection, the number 4, 
such as the 4th, 13th, 22nd, and 31st, has brought on these 
dates the news of an accident, a death, or a sorrow which 
has played some important part in their lives. The number 
1 people also often find that they seem unconsciously to be 
drawn to live in houses whose number makes a 4, such as 
a house in a terrace or street numbered 4, 13, 22, 31, 40, 49, 
.etc., and although such houses may be proved to be associ¬ 
ated with important events in the career, yet I have seldom 
found them associated with happy material advantages. 

A person whose Birth number is an 8 should certainly 
never live in a house whose number makes a 4, 13, 22, 31, 
40, etc., and neither should a person whose Birth number 


90 



CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 91 

makes a 4 live in a house whose number makes an 8, 17, 
26, 35, 44, etc., not, at least, if they wish to escape sorrow, 
misfortune, and strange fatality. 

The second best numbers for a person whose Birth 
number makes a 1 are the interchangeable numbers of the 
2-7, and dates these numbers make, such as the 2nd, 7th, 
nth, 16th, 20th, 25th, or 29th, and houses under the 
numbers 2, 7, n, 16, 20, 25, 29. 34, etc., are generally 
not unfavourable; but as these numbers are related to 
change or unsettled conditions, the number 1 person seldom 
settles down in houses under the 2-7 numbers, or finds 
conditions brought into his or her life under the dates given 
by these numbers as relating to fixed or settled mutters. 

Under the law of harmony and vibration, there is no 
question but that number 1 persons should be associated 
as much as possible with the same number in all its degrees; 
number 2 persons with the number 2 in all its forms. Persons 
born under the 3 should employ their number 3, and so on 
for all the numbers with the exception of those born under 
the 4 and the 8. In the latter cases I recommend, then, 
not to increase the peculiar influence of the 4 and 8, but 
to choose more fortunate vibrations. 

This is where the power and knowledge of the Name 
number will apply. A number 4 or a number 8 person who 
desires to get under more fortunate vibrations, as they 
cannot alter their Birth number they can at least change their 
Name number and live under it and so become equally as 
fortunate as those whose Birth number is a lucky one. 

I will give an example of what I mean. 

Suppose a man or woman has been born on, say, the 8th, 
17th, or 26th of January, and the Name number works out, 
let us say, to a'final total of a 1, 3, 5, or 6 (I have pur¬ 
posely taken the strong or positive numbers). Then I most 
certainly advise the number 8 persons to drop using the 
8 in all their transactions and use. instead anv strong number 
the name may give, such as a 1, 3, 5 or 6. an d a number 4 
person should do likewise. 

You will notice 1 have not used the 9 in giving this rule, 
and my reason for not doing so is that the 4, which is the 



92 CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

symbol of the Planet Uranus, and the 8, which represents 
the Planet Saturn, are so antagonistic in their qualities to 
the 9, the symbol of Mars, that it is better to keep such 
numbers apart. 

This may sound strange to those who have not made 
any study of occultism, but believe me, the above rule 
is not laid down at random or by any shadowy guesswork; 
on the contrary, it has a solid foundation in the science of 
the Planets, and anyone who has ever studied Astrology 
will tell you that I am right when I say that any combina¬ 
tion of the Planets of Mars (9) and Saturn (8) or Uranus (4) 
can only foreshadow troubles and disasters of all kinds. 

To resume, the reason I advise that the Birth number is 
the most important as the Key to the main “fadic” number 
influencing the life is that in the first place it is unalterable ; 
secondly, it is related to the planet's influence at the moment 
of birth, and thirdly, by some mysterious law of vibration— 
which, even if we do not understand, we must admit to 
exist even in such so-called inanimate objects as crystals, 
molecules, and atoms—the moment of birth decides the 
note of harmony or vibration, and so has its influence on 
the actions of our lives from the cradle to the grave. 

Further, the Birth number relates to the material side 
of life, the Name number to the more occult or spiritual 
side of our existence. 

Also the Name number is more difficult to be sure of— 
it must be the product of the name we are most known by. 
This presents a problem for the average man or woman. 
Many men are more knowm by their surnames than by 
their Christian and surname together, and many women 
are called by some “pet” name to the complete extinction 
of their Christian name. In working out such cases mistakes 
may easily be made and a number allotted which is not the 
true one, whereas by going by the Birth number and using 
it as the foundation no mistake can be made. 

If, then, it is found that the name one thinks is the correct 
one, and if its number gives the same number or any 
degree of the same number as the Birth number, then one 
can be absolutely certain that no mistake is being made, 



CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 93 

for if both the Name number and the Birth number accord 
there is nothing one can desire better. 

If the Name number does not accord with the Birth 
number, it can be made to agree by the addition of an 
initial or an alteration in the Christian name, so that both 
give the same vibration; and I advise this to be done in 
every case where the Birth and Name numbers do not 
agree, except in the case of the numbers 4 and 8 which 1 
have spoken of earlier in this chapter. 

Those who are advanced students in occult symbolism 
can utilise the hidden meaning given by both Christian and 
surnames to work out the finer shades of destiny, but for 
all ordinary cases—and I must not lose sight of the fact 
that I am writing this book for the average man and 
woman, those who want to help themselves in the easiest 
possible way, and who have, perhaps, no time for deep and 
abstruse study—to all those, I know I cannot do better 
than to advise them to follow closely the rules governing 
the Birth number as set out in these pages. 

Note.—T he number of the month of Birth or the year of 
Birth is not so personal or so intimate in regard to close calcula¬ 
tions as is the number of the day of Birth. 

The number of the month is useful as far as general matters, 
and the number of the year to the wider current of events. 

Example.— A person born, say, on the 6th June, 1866. Write 
this down in the following order: 

6th = 6 (Individual or Personal) 

June = 5 (General Matters) 

1866 =21=3 (Current of Destiny) 

The numbers 6, 5, and 3 should be regarded as separate and 
distinct and not added together. 

The year number totalled and added to itself indicates an 
important year in the Destiny. 

Example 1866 = 21 

21 

1887 

A further illustration of this is given later in the case of 
William I of Prussia. 



CHAPTER XVI 


SOME ILLUSTRATIONS OF NAMES AND NUMBERS 

AS it is impossible in a book of this size to go into every 
shade of the occult significance of numbers that 
A Jk spring from the foundation of i to 9, I must confine 
myself to giving a few illustrations of how to use the 
numbers allotted to the letters of the Hebrew alphabet 
for the purpose of showing how Destiny appears interwoven 
with numbers and names. 

The great Napoleon originally wrote his name as Napo¬ 
leon Buonaparte. Later on in his life he changed it to 
Napoleon Bonaparte. This change had a curious signi¬ 
ficance : 

Napoleon equals in numbers a 5 
Buonaparte „ „ „ ,, 5 

The number 5, as I showed earlier in these pages, is 
considered a magical number and was carried by the 
ancient Greeks as a mascot when they went into battle. 
The two numbers of 5, if added, producing 10, are equally 
important and strangely significant in this case. 

When Napoleon altered the spelling to Bonaparte, it 
altered the vibration of this word to an 8, and if you refer 
to what I said about this number you will find on the lower 
plane it represents revolution, anarchy, waywardness, con- 
ilict with human justice, and on the lower plane a tragic 
ending to the life. Although a great man, Napoleon was 
on the lower plane of existence, as can be seen if one looks 
up how the number 8 (Saturn) and the 9 (Mars) dominated 
the chief events of his career. As Napoleon Bonaparte 
the two names total the number 13, which number, in the 
occult symbolism which accompanies this system of letters 
and numbers, bears the curious picture of a skeleton with a 
scythe mowing men down, also a symbol of "Power" which 
“if wrongly used will bring destruction upon itself.” 


94 



CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 95 

This was so borne out by Napoleon’s career that further 
comment is unnecessary. 

Some remarkable illustrations of the significance of names 
and numbers may be had from examples of ships. 

The United States battleship Maine, which so mysteriously 
exploded in Havana Harbour, and in which every man on 
board was lost, gives for the word “Maine" the number 
16 for its compound number, the symbolism for this number 
being, as you have read on page 81, “A Tower Struck by 
Lightning.” The mystery of the blowing up of this warship 
has never been solved, but it caused the declaration of war 
by the United States against Spain. 

Another tragic ship disaster was that of the Waratah, 
which, after leaving Australia, sank with all her passengers 
and crew as if she had been swallowed up by the ocean. 
The number of the word “Waratah” equals 20, which, as 
you have read on page 82, is called “the Judgment.” 
This number is symbolised by the figure of a winged angel 
sounding a trumpet, while from below a man, a woman, 
and a child are seen rising from a tomb with their hands 
clasped in prayer. 

Yet another illustration might be taken from the fate 
of the Leinster, the Holyhead and Kingstown mail-boat 
that was torpedoed by a German submarine within sight 
of the Irish coast during the last months of the 1914- 
19x8 War. 

The word “Leinster” gives the compound number of 28, 
"a number full of contradictions,” which also indicates 
“loss through trust in others.” This boat was carrying 
a large number of soldiers as well as passengers, who cer¬ 
tainly trusted their lives to others, in the belief that the 
boat would be accompanied by some of the destroyers 
from Kingstown Harbour. For some unexplained reason 
the order to the destroyers never came—the Leinster sailed 
alone, and in less than an hour met her fate and the loss of 
several hundred lives. 

I know two men who at the last moment avoided going 
on that boat on that particular night by noticing that the 
compound numbers of their names made 28, the same 



96 CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

number as the Leinster, and as they had read that in this 
system of symbolism it is not a fortunate number, and 
being struck by the coincidence of the name of the boat 
making the same number, both men took their luggage off 
at the last moment, and so escaped. 

It is quite natural that under the tension of war people 
are more inclined to watch for the slightest clue that might 
give a warning of danger. I know of many instances where 
men actually saved their lives by following the clue given 
by this system of numbers. In one case a man resting by 
the side of his battery was amusing himself asking the birth 
dates of the men around him. He was startled to find that 
they were all born under the number 8, he himself being 
born on the 26th January, a number 8 man in the “period 
of the 8.” It had just dawned on him that the day of the 
month also happened to be an 8, namely the 17th February, 
and looking up. he counted the number of the battery: 
it was also an 8. Just then a German gun opened fire. 
He counted the shells as they dropped, each one coming 
nearer and nearer. As the seventh fell he could not resist 
the dread that overcame him—he rushed out into the open, 
and as he did so, the eighth shell struck his battery—he was 
the only one who escaped. 



CHAPTER XVII 


EXAMPLES OF HOW NUMBERS RECUR IN LIVES 


A MONG my collection on the influence of numbers 
/-A in connection with events, I have many that are 
A JL decidedly interesting. 

The following letter relates to a curious coincidence 
concerning numbers: 


Dear Sir,— 

I should like to give some facts about the No. 7. I was born 
on the 7th day of the 7th month; I was never ill until my 7th 
birthday, I never failed in an examination until my 7th, and the 
7th girl I proposed to accepted me. Probably I was the 7th man 
who proposed to her. 

I have an uncle who has been exceptionally unlucky in his 
experience of No. 8,631. His wife was killed in a railway accident 
in a carriage numbered 8,631; he himself broke a leg in a cab 
smash, the cab running into him being No. 8,631; and his four 
children died at the ages of 8, 6, 3, and 1 respectively. 

Yours faithfully, 

A. B. French. 


Sir Alma-Tadema and Numbers 

The following appeared in many of the London news¬ 
papers : 

Sir Alma-Tadema, the famous artist, says his important 
number is 17. He was 17 when he first met his wife; their first 
house had that number; it was on August 17th that the work 
of rebuilding his home began, and on November 17th that he 
took up his residence there. His second marriage was in 1871,— 
and here 17 is the result of the figures added together. His house, 
in the artistic quarter of St. John’s Wood, was again a multiple 
of 17. Sir Alma-Tadema was born on January 8th, which would 
account for I he 17th, which gives the single number 8, having 
such importance in his life. 

D 97 



g 8 CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

King Edward VII and Numbers 

King Edward was bom on the 9th November in a month 
that is called in Astrology "the second house of Mars” 
and governed by g, the number of Mars. 

His marriage took place in the year 1863, which numbers 
added to the other make 9; he was to have been crowned 
on the 27th of June, which figures added together make 9, 
and he was actually crowned on August 9th. 

King Edward often referred to me "as the man who 
would not let him live past 69." On the occasion when I 
first had the honour of meeting him as Prince of Wales 
in Lady Arthur Paget’s house, he asked me to "work out 
his numbers.” I did so and explained the reason his " fadic" 
or "root” numbers were the 6 and the 9. I then told him 
that when these two numbers came together would be his 
fatal year, and further that the event should take place 
on a day making the number 6 in a month governed by the 
6, which would be May. He never forgot my prediction, 
and it is my melancholy privilege to record that the last 
occasion when I had any conversation with his late Majesty 
was a few weeks before his death. He was joining the royal 
train at Victoria to make his usual journey to the Continent 
when he noticed me, I happening also to be going abroad. 
He sent an equerry to call me, and he said, smiling 
broadly: 

"Well, 'Cheiro,’ I’m still alive, as you see, but from that 
warning of yours, as I am now in my 69th year, I must take 
care”—a reference to the fact that according to the fadic 
system of numbers his 69th year was for him a dangerous 
year. He then spoke briefly of his racing wagers, and con¬ 
cluded by emphasising how remarkably my advice had been 
crowned by success. 

Alas, in a few short weeks he returned to Buckingham 
Palace, and the public heard with consternation of his 
illness, which proved fatal. On May 6th—in his 69th year, 
the first time that these "fadic” numbers came together— 
my prediction was fulfilled. 

When I had the honour of a prolonged conversation with 



CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 99 

his Majesty Edward VII some years previous to his death, 
he turned with peculiar interest to the subject of numbers 
and how curiously they seemed to “follow him about.” 

He told me that while in Berlin in .1889 he had had 
some conversation on the subject with a man named Streltz, 
a very noted occultist, who predicted many events in the 
life of the ex-Kaiser. But even Streltz did not seem able 
to explain to his royal inquirer the mystery of fadic or 
fatalistic numbers that appear to govern various lives. 
My various interviews with King Edward VII are gone 
into more fully in my book of Memoirs called Confessions : 
Metnoirs of a M odern Seer. 

King Edward and Lord Randolph Churchill 

Incidentally, King Edward mentioned that his “dear 
friend,” as he called him. Lord Randolph Churchill, was 
extremely superstitious in regard to the number 13, and 
attributed many adverse events to the fact that he was 
born on the 13th of February, 1849, the total of whose 
numbers 22 also made a 4. 

I explained to King Edward that the idea that 13 was an 
unfortunate number was not supported by occultism; that 
it was in fact an important number if persons were born on 
the 4th, 13th, 22nd. or 31st, and it was simply regarded as 
ill-omened because in occultism it was looked upon with 
veneration. 

A few years before his death in London in January, 1895, 
I had a brief interview with this famous statesman, and 
he reminded me that my theory of numbers had interested 
him very much. From King Edward he had gathered that 
I thought that 4 was his fadic number, and I confirmed this. 
It was also represented with almost all the leading events 
of his life. 

Lord Russell of Killowen 

Another remarkable instance of prediction by numbers 
was in the case of my meeting with the then Sir Charles 
Russell. 1 explained to him that his important numbers 



100 


CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 
were the I and the 4, with what are called their inter¬ 
changeable numbers of 2 and 7, and that he would reach 
the highest position his career could give him on a date 
that made a 1, such as the ist, 10th, 19th, or 28th in a 
month governed by the 2 and 7, such as July, which is 
governed by those numbers, and in a year whose number 
added up to the number of 4. He made a careful note 
of this, and when he wore his robes of Lord Chief Justice 
of England for the first time he sent for me to come to the 
Law Courts. After the ceremony of installation was over 
he came to me in his private room and as a souvenir gave 
me a signed impression of his hand. 



CHAPTER XVIII 


THE DREAD OF THE “ 13" UNFOUNDED 

N EARLY all people have an extraordinary dread of 
the number 13, which, if they only knew the real 
truth, is not at all the unlucky number they 
imagine it to be. 

The origin of this dread is due primarily to the fact that 
it was much used in connection with occultism, and was in 
far-off times regarded as a powerful although a fatalistic 
number. As I stated before in previous pages, in some of 
the old writ ings of famous Adepts it is said, “ He who 
understands the number 13 hath the Keys of power and 
dominion." 

The opposition of the early Church to occultism was one 
of the principal reasons why this number became ''taboo.” 
It was given out that as 13 sat down to the Last Supper 
it would be unlucky if 13 were to cat together, and that 
one of the 13 would die within the year, and so forth. 

1 must say I could never see the logic of this, for if Christ 
had not been crucified the Scriptures would not "have been 
fulfilled,” in which case Christianity would never have 
existed. 

There was another reason, however, why 13 was dreaded, 
and this was because the occult symbolism that stood for 
this number was represented by a mystic picture of “a 
skeleton with a scythe in its bony hands reaping down 
men." 

It was a curious picture that few could understand, and 
those who did kept their knowledge to themselves in an 
age when even to speak of such things was to forfeit one’s 
life by torture or at the stake. 

This picture allotted to the number 13, although drawn 
or painted in many different ways, always contained the 
same idea: a skeleton reaping in a field, hands and feet 
springing up among new-grown grass, the crowned head 



102 CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

of a man fallen at the point of the scythe, while a female 
head with flowing hair parted in the centre appeared in 
the background. 

To find the true interpretation of this weird picture one 
must go back to the meaning attached to the single number 
4, of which the 13 makes a second 4 in its compound number. 

The single 4, as you have read earlier in these pages, is a 
strange number in itself. Persons dominated by it are 
usually misunderstood and lonely in their lives; people 
who bring about opposition with secret enemies constantly 
at work against them; they reverse the order of things in 
communities and governments; they are attracted to social 
questions and reforms of all kinds; they rebel against 
authority and set up new dynasties or republics. 

The 13 has all these qualities in its higher scale, but even 
more accentuated. It cuts down all before it, reversing the 
order of things shown by the hands and feet springing up in 
the grass and the crowned head falling before the scythe. 
The female head in the background denotes social reform, 
the new order of things, and the uplifting of woman, and 
so forth. 

It was perhaps this picture of a skeleton with a scythe 
in its bony fingers, calling up the idea of Death in the 
minds of those who could not understand the inner meaning 
of the symbolism, that caused the number 13 to be so 
dreaded. 

If people will, however, only think, they will see that 
the 13 belongs to the series of 4, in the range of 4, 13, 22, 
31, etc., and consequently a person born, say, on the 4th, 
13th, 22nd, or 31st of a month will find all these numbers 
recurring in their careers, and this being so, the 13 w'ill 
crop up just as often as the other numbers which make 
a 4. 

In my collection about the continual recurrence of 13 
in a career, the following instances are very remarkable: 

Mr. H. C. Sherman, of Denver, Colorado, met, proposed; and 
was accepted by Miss Weeks on the 13th, and led her to the 
altar at 13 minutes past 10 on Friday, June 73th, 1913. The 



CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 103 

birthdays of the bride and bridegroom fell on the 13th. At the 
wedding there were 13 guests, and the bride carried 13 roses in 
her bouquet. 

Police-Sergeant John Figg, in acknowledging a presentation 
from his comrades of the Dover Police Force on his retirement, 
reports the Daily Express, denied that ill-luck attached to the 
number 13. He said he was one of a family of 13; he started 
work at 13, was 13 years in his first employment, joined the 
Dover Police on April 13th, and his family numbered 13. 

The fateful number 13 appears with strange significance in 
the circumstances surrounding the death of Mr. Phuvah Rudd, 
of North Burton, Yorks. Mr. Rudd fell down dead from heart 
disease on the 13th day of the month. He had been 13 weeks 
on the village club fund, had, on the day of his death, 13 shillings 
only left to draw; his youngest son attained his 13th birthday 
on the day of the funeral, which was attended by 13 members 
of the club, and by 13 members of the family, whose total mileage 
in travelling from their homes to the funeral amounted to 1300 
miles. Mr. Rudd's family consisted of 13 members, including 
the eldest son, whose official number in the Royal Navy is 13, 
and who is at present serving on his 13th ship. Mr. Rudd’s 
baptismal name of Phuvah appears only once in the Bible and 
that is in the 13th verse of the 46th chapter of Genesis. Thirteen 
telegrams were despatched from Hunmanby Telegraph Office 
announcing the death. 

I do not know when this man was bom, but with such a 
recurrence of the number 13 it is nearly certain that he 
must have been bom on a date making a 4, such as the 
4th, 13th, 22nd, or 31st. 


Sir,— 

I see your readers arc interesting themselves in the number 13. 
I am a thirteener. I was born on January 13th, 1840 (the last 
figures adding up to 13). I began to earn money at 13 and I 
made my first political speech when I was 26 (twice 13), and on 
January 26th (again twice 13) a speech which was the beginning 
of my political fortunes. It was the 13th year after my first 
essay at entering the Sunderland Town Council before I was 
elected as M.P. for the town. I enjoyed my first wife’s com¬ 
panionship only 13 years, and she died on the 26th of a month. 
1 was for three years Mayor of Sunderland and for 10 Chairman 



104 CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

of the Durham County Council, or 13 in all. I married my second 
wife when I was 58 (the figures added make 13) and in 1898 
(which figures added come to twice 13). She was born on the 
13th of a month and died on a 13th. 

I was an active member of the Liberal Party for thrice thirteen 
years, and left it in order to support Mr. Chamberlain's Tariff 
Reform crusade in 1903 (which figures add up to 13). At the 
Tariff Reform election at Sunderland my successful poll totalled 
12,334 which figures added together make 13. Important and 
fortunate events in my life occurred when I was 13, twice 13, 
thrice 13, and four times 13. 

You will thus see that I am very much of a thirteener, and 
that the number lias carried with it for me good and evil fortune. 

Yours, etc. 

Samuel Storey. 

SOUTHILL, ChESTER-LE-StRKET, 

December i$th. 


Fear of Thirteen 

Not only the ignorant have a fear of the thirteen [says the 
Chronicle]. Where in the world could one find a greater body of 
miscellaneous knowledge than among the frequenters of the 
reading-room at the British Museum ? Yet never, probably, in 
the history of the reading-room have the seats numbered 13, 
from A13 to T13, all have been full at once. And those of the 
thirteens that do find occupants always find them last. The 
majority of readers prefer a little bare supplementary table to 
a palatial desk when that desk has the fatal number above it. 

In many hotels, even the modem ones, there is no Room 
13; and a similar peculiarity characterises the seats of 
opera-houses in Italy. 

But the dread of 13 has only a limited geographical range. 

In the East and in the West the number is honoured. 
In the Indian Pantheon there are 13 Buddhas. The mystical 
discs which surmount Indian and Chinese pagodas are 13 in 
number. Enshrined in the Temple of Atsusa, in Japan, is 
a sacred sword with 13 objects of mystery forming its hilt. 
Turning westward, 13 was the sacred number of the 
Mexicans. They had 13 snake gods. 



CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 105 

The original States that formed the American Union 
were 13; its motto, E Pluribus Unum, has 13 letters, the 
American eagle has 13 feathers in each wing, and when 
George Washington raised the Republican standard lie was 
saluted with 13 guns. These facts dealing with the U.S.A. 
are fully set out in Cheiro's World Predictions. 



CHAPTER XIX 


THE EXTRAORDINARY EXAMPLE OF NUMBERS IN THE LIVES 
OF ST. LOUIS AND LOUIS XVI 

O NE of the most remarkable instances I have ever 
come across of numbers pointing to a sequence of 
similar events in lives as far apart as over five 
hundred years, and which might be used as evidence of 
reincarnation, is the extraordinary case of St. Louis of 
France and King Louis XVI, which was published in 1852 
in a book called Research into the Efficacy oj Dates and Names 
in the A nnals of Nations. 

As history shows, there was an interval of exactly 539 
years between the birth of St. Louis and Louis XVI. 

If one adds this interval number to the remarkable dates 
in the life of St. Louis, a parallel of events, even to simi¬ 
larity in names, will be seen in the events in the life of 
Louis XVI. 


Sr. Louis 

Birth of St. Louis 23rd April, 
1213 

Add interval 539 

1754 

Birth of Isabel, sister of St. 

Louis 1225 

Add interval 539 

1764 

Death of Louis VIII, father 
of St. Louis, 

1226 
539 


Louis XVI 

Birth of Louis XVI 23rd 
August, 

1754 

Birth of Elizabeth, sister of 
Louis XVI 

1764 

Death of the Dauphin, father 
of Louis XVI 


Add interval 



CHEIRO S BOOK OF NUMBERS 
St. Louis Louis XVI 


Minority of St. Louis com¬ 
mences 1226 

Add interval 539 

1765 

Marriage of St. Louis 

1231 

Add interval 539 

1770 

Majority of St. Louis (King) 

1235 

Add interval 539 


1774 

St. Louis concludes a peace 
with Henry III 

1243 

Add interval 539 

1782 

An Eastern prince sends an 
ambassador to St. Louis 
desiring to become a 
Christian 1249 

Add interval 539 

1788 

Captivity of St. Louis 

1250 

Add interval 539 


1789 

St. Louis abandoned 

1250 

539 

1789 


Minority of Louis XVI com¬ 
mences 


I7b5 

Marriage of Louis XVI 


1770 

Accession of Louis XVI, King 
of France 

*774 

Louis XVI concludes a peace 
with George III 

17S2 

An Eastern prince sends an 
ambassador to Louis XVI 
for the same purpose 

1788 

Louis XVI deprived of all 
power 

1789 

Louis XVI abandoned 


1789 


Add interval 



io8 CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 


St. Louis 

Birth of Tristan (sorrow) 

1250 

Add interval 539 

1789 

Beginning of Pastoral under 
Jacob 1250 

Add interval 539 

1789 

Death of Isabel d’Angouleme 
1250 

Add interval 539 


1789 

Death of Queen Blanche, 
mother of St. Louis 

1253 

Add interval 539 


1792 

St. Louis desires to retire and 
become a Jacobin 

Add interval 539 


1793 

St. Louis returns to Madeleine 
en Provence 1254 
Add interval ' 539 


1793 


Louis XVI 

Fall of the Bastille and Com¬ 
mencement of the Revolu¬ 
tion. 

1789 

Beginning of the Jacobins in 
France 


1789 

Birth of Isabel d’Angouleme 
in France 


1789 

End of the White Lily of 
France 


1792 

Louis XVI quits life at the 
hands of the Jacobins 


1793 

Louis XVI interred in the 
cemetery of the Madeleine 
in Paris 

1793 


This, I believe, is one of the most curious examples of 
history repeating itself at a fixed interval. The addition 



CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 109 

of the interval number 539 reduced to the single digit 
gives the number 8, and the number of letters in the name 
LOUIS XVI gives also the 8. This number, as I explained 
earlier, represents the symbol of Justice and of one appealing 
from the brutality of Human Justice to that of the Divine. 



CHAPTER XX 


PERIODICITY IN NUMBERS 

T HE Law of Periodicity is shown in some lives in a 
very remarkable manner. In many cases it may last 
for hundreds of years, as may be noticed in the 
lives of St. Louis and Louis XVI in the interval of 539 
years that separated these two Kings of France, and which 
interval, when added to the date of important events in 
St. Louis's life, repeated similar events in the career of 
Louis XVI. This is considered one of the most curious 
examples known in history. 

Further, it will be noticed that St. Louis was born on 
April 23rd, the numbers added together producing a 5. 
Louis XVI was born August 23rd, also producing a 5. 

These names worked out by the Hebrew Alphabet are: 


SAINT 

3**54 

LOUIS 

3 7 <*X 3 

* 4=5 

20 = 2 

5 and 2=7 

LOUIS 

xvr 

3 7<**3 

16 

20 = 2 

7 

2 and 7=9 


The name Saint Louis worked out to its single digit 
gives 7, the spiritual number. Louis XVI worked out to 
its single digit gives 9, the material number. These two 
single numbers added together give 16 for the compound 
number, the occult meaning being, as you have read in a 
previous chapter, “A Tower Struck by Lightning from 
which a man is falling with a Crown on his head,” a fitting 
symbol in every sense for the downfall of Louis XVI. 


HO 



CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS hi 

After this date, the execution of Louis XVI, in 1793, we 
cannot yet trace this curious law of periodicity further, 
but in adding the interval number again to 1793 we get 
the year 2332, in which perhaps another incarnation of 
St. Louis will again reign in France. 

Another interesting example of a number being associated 
with the Kings of France is the following: 

The first King of France named Henri was consecrated 
on the 14th May, 1029, and the last King of the name of 
Henri was assassinated on the 14th May, 1610. 

Fourteen letters it will be found make the name of Henri 
de Bourbon, who was the 14th King to bear the title of 
King of France and Navarre. 

On the 14th December, 1553, or 14 centuries, 14 decades, 
and 14 years after the birth of Christ, Henri IV of France 
was born; the figures of the date 1553 added together make 
also the number 14. 

On the 14th May, 1554, Henri II signed the decree for 
the enlargement of the Rue de la Fcrronnerie. The cause 
of this order—the narrowness of this street—not having 
been carried into execution, brought about the assassination 
of Henri IV in that same street exactly 4 times 14 years later. 

On the 14th May, 1552, Marquerite de Valois, the tirst 
wife of Henri IV, was bom. 

On the 14th May, 1588, the Duke of Guise opened the 
revolt against Henri III. 

On the 14th March, 1590, Henry IV won the important 
Battle of Ivry. 

On the 14th May, 1590, the main Army of Henry IV was 
defeated at the Fauxbourg of Paris. 

On the 14th November, 1590, "the Sixteen" took an 
oath of death rather than serve Henri IV. 

On the 14th November, 1592, the French Parliament 
accepted the Papal Bull, which gave authority to the 
legate of Rome to nominate a king instead of Henri IV. 

On the 14th December, 1599, the Duke of Savoy sub¬ 
mitted to Henry IV. 

On the 14th September, the Dauphin, who later became 
Louis XIII, was baptised. 



H2 CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

On the 14th May, 1610, owing to the narrowness 
of the Rue de la Ferronnerie, previously referred 
to, the street his father Henri II had planned to be 
enlarged, the carriage of the King was stopped by a 
cart which gave Ravaillac the opportunity to assassinate 
him. 

On the 14th May, 1643, Louis XIII, the son of Henri IV, 
died, on the same day of the same month that his father 
was killed, and if the figures of 1643 are added together they 
make the Number 14, which had played such an important 
part in his father’s career. 

Louis XIV ascended the throne in 1643, also a 14, and 
died in 1715, which also makes a 14. His age at his death 
was 77, again making by addition a 14. 

Louis XV ascended the throne in 1715=74. 

Louis XVI was in the 14th year of his reign when he con¬ 
voked the States-General, which brought about the Revolu¬ 
tion and his downfall. 

The Restoration of the Bourbons took place in 1814, 
the number of this year added together making 14. 

The reason why this number 14 or its single number 5 
appears so much associated with the destiny of Fiance may 
be traced to the fact that in Astrology Paris lias always 
been represented as governed by the Sign V'irgo, whose 
Planet is Mercury in its negative aspect, whose number is 
a 5- 

During the period of French history I have cited, Paris 
was the principal point of power. The king who reigned in 
Paris ruled in France. 

The addition of important dates often appears to bring 
out subsequent dates of equal importance. 

The following is a striking illustration from French 
history: 

Revolution in France and fall of Robespierre 
took place in ..... 1 794 

The numbers of this date added together give . 21 



CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 113 

The fall of Napoleon ..... 1815 

1815 added gives.15 


Fall of Charles X and Revolution in France . 1830 

1830 added gives.12 

Death of the King Louis Philippe . . . 1842 

1842 added gives.15 


End of Crimean War.1857 

1857 added gives.21 

The famous Treaty of Berlin .... 1878 

1878 added gives .... 24 

Danger of War with England over Fashoda . 1902 

1902 added gives . .... 12 

World War I.1914 

1914 added gives . . . . . 15 


A date which was another crisis in French history 1929 

Another curious example of the addition of dates, much 
commented on in both Berlin and Paris during 1914, is as 
follows: 

In 1849, William I of Prussia fled with his mother, Queen 
Louise, and took refuge in England. Meeting with a woman 
well versed in Numerology, he asked her to tell him his 
future. "Add,” she answered, " the figures of this important 
year together 1849 

22 


1871 

In the year produced by this addition you will end a great 
war and will be proclaimed Emperor.” 

"And then-?" asked the King. 

"Add 1871,” she replied, "and you will get the year of 
your death.” The King made the addition and wrote 
1888. 

"And what of my country after that?” the King asked. 
"Add again,” she answered, "and see what the total is ” 




114 CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 
The King added 1888 

25 


1913 

"In that year,” the woman said, "the man who wears 
your crown will prepare another war, which will bring 
about his ruin and that of your country, for the time being.” 

This story was repeated to me by a close relative of the 
ex-Kaiser when he visited me in Paris in 1904. 

In Rome there is a very ancient tradition which says 
that no Pope who occupies the Chair of St. Peter can reign 
longer than 25 years. The Popes who came very near this 
strangely set period were the following: 


Pius VI who reigned 24 years 6 months and 14 days 

Adrian I „ 

II 

23 10 

»» 17 » 

Pius VII 

ll 

23 5 

1, 6 „ 

Alexander III „ 

» 

21 „ 11 

» 23 „ 

Sylvester I „ 

ll 

21 „ 0 

.. 4 » 

Leo XIII entered his 25th 

year as Pope, but did not pass 


beyond the set period, although he occupied the Chair of St. 
Peter longer than any of his predecessors. 

English history also contains many equally strange 
examples of numbers and dates reappearing continually 
in remarkable lives. 

On the 29th May, 1630, Charles II was bom. 

,, „ 29th „ 1660, he was restored to the Throne. 

„ ,, 29th „ 1672, his fleet was destroyed by the Dutch. 

„ „ 29th ,, 1679, the Covenanter Rebellion broke out. 

On the 3rd September, Cromwell was bom. 

» » 3rd „ won the Battle of Dunbar. 

„ „ 3rd „ he won the Battle of Worcester. 

„ „ 3rd „ he died. 

In a previous chapter I have related the curious influence 
the numbers 6 and 9 had in the life of King Edward VII. 



CHAPTER XXI 


SOME ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 

I N this volume I will endeavour to answer many enquiries 
from those interested in Numerology and give as much 
additional information as possible. 

As there are many books on this subject that have 
appeared in the last few years which are not in accordance 
with some of the rules brought forward by me, I think it 
is only right to explain the chief fault to be found in the 
books of many writers on this subject is, that they have 
modelled their theories on literature that has appeared in 
different times or have copied what has been written and 
have not themselves had practical experience in proving 
the various theories from a wide variety of cases from actual 
life, and so have endeavoured to lay down rules which have 
no real foundation. 

In my own case I have not only had long years of indi¬ 
vidual practice, but my articles in the Press and Cheiro's 
Book of Numbers on this subject have brought me many 
thousands of letters in which my correspondents have given 
the most detailed instances of how and under what circum¬ 
stances they have proved certain numbers intimately 
associated with the important events of their lives. I know 
from such experience that the system I teach in my writings 
is a practical one and not simply theoretical. 

The trouble with the majority of writers on occult sub¬ 
jects is, that they start off with the idea that they must 
clothe the truth they propose to write about with so many 
''frills” and "fancies" that the ordinary "man in the 
street" becomes lost in a labyrinth of vague theories and 
is left no wiser in the end than he was at the beginning. 

To put matters briefly, the two schools of philosophy in 
regard to the subject of numbers are the Pythagorean and 
the more ancient one known as the Chaldean. 



n6 CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

The Greek philosopher, Pythagoras, imbibed all his 
knowledge of the occult value of numbers during his resi¬ 
dence in Egypt. On his return to Greece he established a 
school of occult philosophy that was eminently suited to the 
needs of his day. In this school only a very limited number 
of initiates were allowed to enter. The more involved and 
difficult the teachings became, the fewer were the favoured 
ones who could boast that they were the “chosen of the 
Master," consequently a kind of occult hierarchy was 
established that raised an insurmountable barrier between 
these students and those they were pleased to call "the 
common people." 

From this the most involved and complicated system of 
occult philosophy became launched; nothing was allowed 
to be put in writing, knowledge had to be handed down 
by word of mouth, the most elaborate ceremonials were 
instituted in which initiates were sworn to secrecy, and the 
greatest efforts were made to conceal occult knowledge in 
every possible way. 

After the death of Pythagoras, his many followers 
started schools of philosophy of their own. All of them 
differed widely as to what “the Master" really did teach. 
In the end confusion became still more confounded 
by the action of the early Fathers of the Christian 
Church condemning all occult learning as the “work of 
the devil." 

One of the greatest of Pythagoras' teachings was that 
of the occult value of numbers. He laid down the axiom 
that numbers concealed and contained the secret of the 
universe. In this theory he was undoubtedly right, but 
his followers so complicated the rules he taught that in 
the end few could follow the great truth that underlay 
his wisdom. 

In later years one can take a similar illustration from 
that wonderful teacher, Jesus of Nazareth. After his cruci¬ 
fixion his twelve disciples spread his teachings in various 
ways in accordance with their own mental inclination; 
following them the thousand and one popes, bishops, 
priests and deacons have added or subtracted from the 



CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 117 
teachings of “the Master” until in the end the vast 
majority of the people do not know what to follow or 
believe. 

In the study of numbers I advocate that the students 
should endeavour to get back to the original source; that 
is why I claim that in returning to the original Chaldean, 
Hindu, and Hebrew system, which I teach in my books, 
one has more likelihood of arriving at the real truth of 
such studies. 

I could easily write an entire volume on the history of 
numbers, tracing its origin from the most remote ages; 
but in this practical period of humanity I realise that such 
an elaborate treatise is not required—that what men and 
women want is the practical appeal to their own personal 
experience and nothing more. 

It is for this reason I have written Cheiro’s Book of 
Numbers for the masses, more than for the more limited 
erudite student. In this work I have followed the same 
idea, giving the more simple facts relating to the occult 
side of numbers, leaving the higher philosophy to those 
who have the leisure and disposition to solve the finer 
meanings for themselves. 

I may be criticised, it is true, for this way of looking at 
things, but I believe in teaching “the people” more than 
“the person.” Out of “the people” can always come some 
one individual who, by prolonged study and application, 
may develop into "a Master,” and so lead on “from our 
dead selves to higher things.” 

Out of the many thousands of letters I have received, I 
shall now endeavour to answer the questions which appear 
to me as the most important. 

“Should the words Mr., Mrs., or Miss be calculated when 
working out the complete number of a name? ” 

Answer: As I have explained before, it is "the name one 
is most known by" that should be used in working out the 
number of a name. 

If, for example, a young lady is always addressed or 
spoken of as, say, Miss Jones—as is often the case in a 
large business establishment—then in connection with that 



Ii8 CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 
business in which she is employed. Miss Jones should cer¬ 
tainly take that name as the one she is most known by and 
work out the number of the name ‘‘Miss Jones” and use it, 
but only in relation to the business she is employed in. It is, in 
fact, her " trade name ”; but for her home life or her private 
affairs she should work out the Christian name she is called 
by or the "pet” name she is known under. When the same 
young lady enters the state of matrimony and becomes 
"Mrs.” she should then work out the numbers for her new 
title, but always keeping the numbers of her Christian or 
“pet” name for her home and private life. The same rule 
applies to every woman known and called continually 
"Mrs. Smith” or "Mrs. Jones,” as the case may be, in the 
circle of friends or acquaintances in which she is called 
"Mrs." 

Men in business for themselves or in large establishments, 
who are generally called “Mr.” before their name, should 
also follow the above rule. 

When a man or woman has many Christian names, they 
should only take the number made by the principal one— 
that they are most known by. 

The same rule applies to every prefix or title a man or 
woman may obtain by right of birth or as an honour. 

A good illustration of this is the case of the famous 
Melba. 

The great diva's surname worked out to the compound 
number of 15, with 6 for the single, both being excellent 
for success. In one of my Press articles, speaking of the 
number 15 ,1 said: ” If this number is associated with a good 
or fortunate single number, it can be very lucky and power¬ 
ful. It is peculiarly associated with ‘good talkers' and often 
with gifts of eloquence, music, art and strong personal 
magnetism.” All these qualities were characteristic of the 
great Melba, as she was called all through her successful 
career. 

Her signature, Nellie Melba, produces the number 10, 
also a fortunate number, and the single number 1, which 
is a number of strong individuality and ambition. It also 
denotes that people possessing this number have the desire 



CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 119 
to become the head or chief in whatever profession or 
occupation they take up. 

If the number of her title, “Dame,” which is the lucky 
number of 5, be added to the name Nellie Melba, the total 
of the last digits are: Dame 5, Nellie 4, Melba 6, giving 
again the compound number 15, so that as long as this 
famous woman existed good fortune always favoured her. 

I will now give an example of a title which produces one 
of the unfortunate numbers, the curious effect it foreshadows 
as far as the promise of good luck is concerned. 

In cases where the addition of the number of the title 
produces a 4 or an 8, it foreshadows that the fortunate 
numbers of the name have ceased their luck or power, and 
in such cases the title will become a detriment and not a 
happiness. 

An illustration which may be given in connection with 
this is that of Napoleon. This name works out to the com¬ 
pound number of 41, which, as I state in my writings, is "a 
magical number usually associated with combinations of 
peoples or nations.” The single number is a 5, also for¬ 
tunate. When Napoleon became Emperor of France his 
name became Napoleon I, the 1 making his compound 
number 42 with the single number of 6. Both of these again 
are numbers of power and good fortune and he went down 
to posterity as the Great Napoleon. 

In the case of Napoleon III the compound number be¬ 
comes 44, which I stated in my articles “is a number of 
the gravest warnings for the future; it foreshadows disasters 
brought about by association with others and bad advice" 
—exactly what happened to Napoleon III. Again, the 
single number of his name became an 8. Even the magic 
of the name Napoleon was overshadowed by it, and Napo¬ 
leon III went down to posterity as "the man who lost 
France.” 

I think these illustrations will help to show-how a prefix 
to a name, or a title acquired or inherited, fits in with this 
wonderful science of Numerology, and the number it gives 
added to the other numbers is a further indication of good 
or evil fortune for the future. 



120 CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

The titles given to kings and queens when they ascend 
the throne, especially when taken in connection with their 
birth number, is generally very interesting. 

In the case of King Edward VII, he changed his name 
when he came to the throne from Albert to Edward, the 
name he took working out as follows: 

King . 

Edward 

VII 


II = 2 
22 = 4 
= 7 


13 

I have described this number in a previous chapter as a 
number of warning with its strange symbolism of "a 
skeleton” or “death.” 

It was certainly a warning of great changes that were 
about to occur in England, and taken in conjunction with 
his birth number, November gth, by adding the 4 produced 
by the 13 to the 9, they again made a 13, which doubled the 
warning and also indicated a short reign. 

In the case of King George V, the numbers produced are 
as follows: 


Kin f?.= 2 

£ eor 6 e .. = 7 


14 =5 

The compound number 14 I have already described in 
previous pages as “a number of movement, combinations 
of people and things, but danger from natural forces such 
as tempests, water, air, or fire, but with a strong element 
of risk and danger attached to it, generally owing to the 
actions and foolhardiness of others.” 

Bom on June 3rd, the late King’s birth took place in the 
Zodiacal Sign of Gemini, which is called the 1st House of 
Air. Consequently the dangers foreshown by the compound 
number of the name and title are all the more accentuated; 



CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 121 

therefore the King’s greatest danger came from any¬ 
thing in connection with air, even His Majesty’s lungs, as 
the breathing apparatus of his system, come under this 
symbol of the Zodiacal Sign of Birth. 

London, the capital of England, is also under the same 
sign of Gemini, and the greatest danger to it is from the 
air. 

It is a curious fact and doubtless one charged with deep 
significance that not only George V but Queen Mary and 
the Duke of Windsor were all born under the sign of Gemini, 
or very close to it, in the 1st House of Air, and in the district 
of London, also under the same sign. 

Although she has other Christian names, the Queen is 
always popularly known as Queen Mary. The numbers of 
her name are: 

Queen.22 = 4 

Mary. =8 

12 =3 

The compound number of this name is 12. In my previous 
chapters I have given the symbolism of this number as 
"a number indicating anxiety of mind." It is also called 
"the sacrifice.’’ As Queen Mary was bom on May 26th, her 
birth number is an 8, and in the name Queen Mary the 4 
and the 8 are also produced. 

These illustrations of the significance of titles and prefixes 
to a name will, I think, be useful to my readers and will 
answer some thousands of letters I have received asking 
for information on this point. 


Note.— The Prince of Wales (The Duke of Windsor), born 
10 p.m., June 23rd, 1894, at White Lodge, Richmond Park, 
London, is in what is called the “cusp” of Gemini-Cancer. 

The sun at this date had just passed out of Gemini and was 
in 2 degrees 21 of Cancer. 

The qualities of Gemini will be the main influence through his 
life. 



122 CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

His Majesty King George V, born June 3rd, 1865, 1.18 a.m., 
Marlborough House, London, has the sun in 12 degrees 25 of 
Gemini. 

Her Majesty Queen Mary, bom May 26th, 1867, 11.59 P m -. 
Kensington Palace, London, is in the “cusp” of Taurus-Gemini 
and has the sun in 5 degrees 13 of Gemini. 



CHAPTER XXII 

HOW TO FIND THE “LUCKY" DAY 

I N answer to many letters from readers of Cheiro's Book 
of Numbers, I take this opportunity of explaining a 
point of very great importance, namely, how to find the 
“lucky’’ day. 

I have stated that the birth number is the most important 
when the individual wants to carry out his own plans. 

For example: A person we will say bom on the ist of a 
month will find for all general purposes that if he or she will 
use all dates making the Number One series, such as the 
ist, ioth, 19th or 28th of any month, especially during 
what is called the “period of the 1” and “the period of the 
2,” namely, from June 21st to July 20th (period of the 2), 
and from July 21st to August 20th (period of the 1), they 
will have a far better chance of carrying out their plans 
successfully than if they did not follow this rule and did 
not know what dates to use for the best. 

This is quite independent of any other rule, and I strongly 
recommend it. 

To get a still more powerful vibration, I have advised 
that persons should try to make the number of their name 
(when they have worked out the letters of it by what is 
called the Mystic or Ancient Hebrew Alphabet) the same 
series as the number that is given by their birth date, and 
I have explained in a previous chapter how to do this by 
adding a letter to their name or taking away a letter, as 
the case may be. If these two numbers agree or are in 
harmony with one another, then they should use the date 
that is given to commence anything important, or endeavour 
to carry out their plans on that number which is indicated. 
They must, however, bear in mind that any number of the 
series they belong to is equally important. 

Example.— The person bom on the ist of the month will 
find the ioth, 19th, or 28th of equal importance to the number 1 


123 



124 CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

on which they were born, and so on with every other birth 
number. 

Naturally, when people begin to follow this idea, they 
must not expect to find their luck change in an instant, as 
if by magic. I have several letters before me as I write, 
where the writers expected their “luck” to change for the 
better within twenty-four hours. A few months ago there 
was one man who wrote that “at the end of a week he had 
found no change in his bad luck," but at the end of three 
months the same man again wrote to say that towards 
the middle of the third month he began to notice a distinct 
improvement in all his affairs. 

Some of the writers have also apparently not grasped 
the example I gave in working out the number of the name 
of a man I called "John Smith." I stated in a previous 
chapter that if “John Smith" wanted to find out a favour¬ 
able date to ask his employer for an increase in his wages 
he should add the numbers given by the name “John 
Smith" together, then add the single number of the date 
he wanted to know about and lastly to add his birth number. 
The result was a total of 15 as the last compound number 
with 6 as the last single number. I said, “Look up what 
I have given as the symbolism of the 15, and you will find 
it stated 'for obtaining money, gifts and favours from others 
it is a fortunate number,' ” and therefore the date “John 
Smith" wanted to see his employer would be a favourable 
date for him to make his request. 

This was given only as an illustration of finding out if one 
particular date would be likely to be favourable for that 
special purpose, but 1 never intended this to be employed 
to the exclusion of the other definite rule for continual 
action all through the year on the series given by the Birth 
number, such as for a number 1 person to use all dates 
that make a 1, as the 1st, 10th, etc. 

It will be noticed that in the latter case the rule is individual 
or personal ; in the “John Smith" case another life, namely 
the employer, was also concerned, and in consequence the 
rule given would not work out with such certairity. 



CHAPTER XXIII 


MORE INFORMATION ABOUT COLOURS AND NUMBERS 

J UDGING from the large number of letters asking for 
more information as to colours and numbers, it appears 
that many readers are confused as to the colours given 
according to the number of the month and those given to 
the number of the day of birth. 

There is no reason for anyone to get confused between 
the colours given by the number of the month and those 
given by the number of the day, if one will bear in mind 
that the number of the month is not as close or intimate 
in its relationship to the individual as is the colour indicated 
by the number of birth. 

Take the month of January, for example. The "period 
of the number 8" as set out in my Book of Numbers (p. 58) 
is from December 21st to January 20th in its positive 
aspect, and from January 21st to February 21st in its 
negative aspect. The number 8, as I state in my book, has 
for its colours "all shades of dark grey, dark blue, and 
purple.” In my other book, When Were You Born? I gave 
the same colours with the addition of "violet,” and under 
the heading of "colours of the number 8" in the same book 
I have extended the list slightly by giving "all tones of 
dark greys, blues, browns, and russet shades.” For the 
lucky jewels I have given “all dark stones, such as dull 
rubies, carbuncles, and the deep-toned sapphire, which is 
most markedly the jewel of the number 8.” In the same 
book for persons born under a 4, I have given "all shades 
of grey and fawn and electric shades and the minor tints 
of yellow and green.” In this more recently published 
Book of Numbers I have simply condensed the colours for 
the number 4 people to what are called "half shades, half 
tones, or electric colours,” and have stated that "electric 
blues” and greys seem to suit them best of all. In all 
this there is no contradiction of terms, as the writers of 


125 



126 CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

many letters to me appear to imagine, but owing to the 
fact that in my last book my theme was principally numbers, 
I had to give more information on that part of the subject 
and less space to the colours. There are so many sides to 
the study of the occult value of numbers that one cannot 
put all the information in one book. 1 

The following information will, I think, be useful, and I 
am giving it in order to clear up a point which I have 
noticed in many of the letters that have been received. 

Namely: A person bom on, say, January 6th has read 
in my book When Were You Born? that January is the 
"period of the 8," and that the colours for the number 8 
are "all tones Of grey, all ranges of violet and purple, also 
black.” Many of those who have written to me are puzzled 
to know whether they should use the colours of the 8 or 
those belonging to the number 6. My answer is, employ 
most decidedly in such a case the colours of the number 6 
as the principal, individual, and "lucky” colours to use, 
but as the person was bom in the "period of the 8” he or 
she can use, if they wish, but as secondary colours, those given 
by the number 8. 

Another illustration I will give is for those born in the 
"period of the 9,” namely between March 2ist to April 27th, 
which is the positive period of the 9, and those born in its 
negative period, namely, between October 21st and November 
27th. 

If one will look up in my books the colours I have given 
to the number 9, they will find that they are "all shades 
of crimson or red, ail rose tones and pink” for the positive 
period, while for the negative period in my book When Were 
You Born? if one reads about the period October-November, 
one will notice I say “all shades of crimson and blue.” 

Where does blue come in? one may ask. 

Because the opposite Sign of the Zodiac to the period 
October 21st to November 27th is what is called "the House 
of Venus" in her positive aspect, and as Venus, which is also 
the number 6, represents in this wonderful colour scheme 

1 The deep-toned sapphire is also the principal jewel of the number 4, 
and all its series. 



CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 127 
of nature all shades of blue, these blue rays appear to cross 
from one side of the Zodiac to the other and so become a 
favourable colour for persons bom in the negative period 
of the number 9, as well as "all shades of crimson.” 

Going back to the "periods of the number 9” for a 
moment we find the basic colours for both these periods 
are red, crimson and pink, but the same rule applies as it 
did it my example for the "period of the 8.” A person 
bom on a 6, such as on the 6th, 15th, or 24th in the period 
of the 9, would have as his or her principal colour all shades 
of blue, with red, crimson, or pink, as his or her secondary 
colours. 

The same rule applies to every month in the year and to 
every date of birth. It is quite simple when one has once 
grasped this principle and can appreciate the marvellous 
harmony of this wonderful universe in which we live. 



CHAPTER XXIV 


THE VALUE OF CONCENTRATION IN REGARD TO ONE'S 

NUMBER 

I N order to help my readers to make the best of whatever 
their number may be. I will now give advice which I 
am sure will be found of great assistance to those who 
want to try to make the most of their lives. 

Once the principal or dominating number of the life 
has been found, then the next step is to increase its power 
as much as possible, the exception being those who are born 
under the 8, namely the 8th, 17th, or 26th of any month, 
to whom I will give advice on this point later. 

This increase of power can be obtained by employing 
one of the greatest forces that man is endowed with, namely 
the Power of Concentration. 

There are very few people who know anything about 
this extraordinary power. 

All successful men and women are endowed with it, 
many use it unconsciously. Some are born with it, others 
develop it, but the majority of mankind do not use it 
at all. 

One may often have noticed the feeble, "wishy-washy” 
way most people talk. One may have tried hard to follow 
some rambling statement, but have found at the end that 
one hardly knows " what it was all about,” or that the person 
who has tried to interest you has made no impression on 
you whatever. This has been due to the fact that the man 
or woman has no power of concentration, and consequently 
no force behind their flow of words. 

It is the same when such people write a letter—again 
there may be a lot of words, even expressions and sentences 
well put together, but the letter has no effect on you, and 
very likely you toss it aside and think no more about it. * 

On the contrary, another person may say only a few 
words, but those words take effect', or they may write, and 



CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 129 

their sentences strike home—the secret of this mystery is 
concentration of mind. 

The simplest way of developing this power is by the use 
of numbers. I will now explain. 

The first thing to be done is to find one's own number, 
the birth number being in every case the simplest and the 
most certain; the next is to grasp the meaning of that number, 
and lastly, to think of oneself as if that number belonged 
to one, represented one, and were part and parcel of one's 
aims and plans. 

This is the sure foundation on which to build. 

We will now go a step farther. The man or woman who 
has found his own distinct number should plan with firm 
determination to use that number in every way possible. 

They should mentally look forward to the day or date 
when their number is to appear and plan that on that day 
they will take a certain course of action, and when that 
day or date arrives that they will go straight for what they 
want without shilly-shallying or hesitation of any kind. 

Having read previous chapters on numbers, the reader 
has by now grasped the characteristics of other persons 
that are bom under their own or other numbers. It is 
quite a simple matter to find out the day of the month on 
which the person one is going to interview was bom, for 
if one docs not ask the year of birth, even the woman most 
sensitive about her age will tell the date on which she was 
born. 

A number 1 person will realise how useless it is to attempt 
to dominate a number 3 person. On the contrary, they must 
appeal to their ambition, their conscientiousness in carrying 
out their duties, their love of order and discipline, their sense 
of independence and the pride of honour and self that is 
the foundation principle of the number 3 person. 

If they bear this in mind, concentrating at the same time 
on their own plan that made them seek the interview they 
will hnd that the number 3 person, instead of being difficult 
to approach, will, on the contrary, be willing to help and 
will most probably give ideas and suggestions that will be 
useful. 



130 CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 
Having chosen a date for the interview on one of their 
own numbers, and by doing so, having concentrated their 
mind on this plan of action, they will find how easily they 
will be able to influence the person they have come to 
interview. 



CHAPTER XXV 


COMBINATIONS BETWEEN I HYTHEN 4 PERSONS AND ADVICE 
TO THOSE BORN UNDER THE NUMBERS 4 AND 8 

F OLLOWING the illustrations I gave in the previous 
chapters on the usefulness of concentration on one’s 
own number, so as to increase its power (except in 
case of those bom under the 4 and 8), we will now take 
as an example a number 1 person meeting another of his 
own number. My readers have already learned from pre¬ 
vious articles that people bom on the same series are 
naturally sympathetic to one another, and such knowledge 
gives the feeling in the first place that the other number 1 
he is talking to is "one of themselves,” as it were. This 
very sentiment radiating outwards destroys nervousness 
and allows the lines of human magnetism to vibrate in 
harmony from one to the other. 

Let us now suppose that the number 1 person has arranged 
an interview with an individual born under the 2 series. 
In such a case he or she can select any date of the 1 or 2 
series, such as the 1st, 2nd, 10th, nth, 19th, 20th, 28th, or 
29th. The number 1 person has read that number 2 persons 
have the feminine qualities of the number I, and that, though 
opposite in character, the vibrations of both r and 2 persons 
are harmonious, and that they make good combinations. 
With this knowledge in his possession the number 1 person 
will make the effort to combine with the ideas of number 2, 
and so happy and good results will be obtained. 

A number 1 and a number 4 person will also meet on a 
sympathetic and harmonious vibration for the reason that in 
Numerology the number 1 is always associated with the 4 
and these numbers are written as 1 hyphen 4, and 4 hyphen 
1, but as all number 4 persons have a very decided indi¬ 
viduality, they must not be subjugated by the 1 person, 
but must be allowed to keep their own distinct character 
and to see things from their own point of view. If the 



132 CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

number i person will keep the peculiar temperament of 
the number 4 in mind, any combination with a number 4 
person should be most successful. 

Behind all these ideas as far as success is concerned, as 
I have said at the commencement is the development of 
the power of concentration on one's own number, so as to 
increase its influence. This holds good for all the numbers 
except those bom under the 4 and 8. 

In previous chapters I have already warned all those 
under the 4’s and 8’s, such as the persons bom on the 4th, 
8th, 13th, 17th, 22nd, 26th, and 31st to avoid all numbers 
making an 8 or a 4 as much as possible; not to live in houses 
that have such numbers, and not to choose dates that 
make them. 

In preceding pages I have gone into fuller details as to 
the 4 and 8 series, but briefly the rule for such persons to 
follow is: Never increase the power of these numbers. Conse¬ 
quently they must not follow the rule laid down for those 
bom under the other numbers, but on the contrary they 
should do the very opposite. 

As they cannot alter their Birth number, they can alter 
the number made by their name and cause it to produce 
one of the more fortunate series, especially one of a strong 
vibration such as a 1, 3, 5, or 6. Having definitely fixed in 
this way that they are going to be represented, by the strong 
number they have made out of their name, they should 
then follow the rule I gave previously, namely, think of 
themselves as that number and do everything that is important 
on dates that make that number. If they do this, and do 
it persistently , the number 4 or 8 persons will get away 
from the bad luck such people generally experience and so 
become as equally fortunate as others. 

They must not, however, expect the change to be seen 
in a few days, as so many in their impatience do, but in a 
reasonable space of time they will see very marked results 
in their favour. 



CHAPTER XXVI 


MORE INFORMATION ABOUT PERSONS BORN UNDER THE 
NUMBERS 4 AND 8 

I HAVE received so many letters from number 4 and 8 
people, asking for advice, that I think it will be useful 
to devote an entire chapter to such cases. 

Out of every hundred letters, fully eighty write testi¬ 
fying to the accuracy of my system of numbers, especially 
as regards the hard luck that appears to pursue persons who 
have the combination of 4 and 8 continually cropping up 
in their lives. 

The 4 in itself and all its series is not so much to be 
dreaded. Persons bom on the 4th, 13th, 22nd, and 31st 
will find these dates and numbers the most important in 
their lives, but as the 4 in Numerology is always associated 
with the number 1, and in nearly all systems is written 
as 4 hyphen 1, or 1 hyphen 4, and as the 1 is a strong and 
powerful number, I advise the number 4 persons to use 
the strong number as much as possible and select all dates 
such as the 1st, ioth, 19th, and 28th for their most important 
efforts, and to endeavour to live in houses whose number 
or the addition of whose number makes a number 1. They 
should also remember that as what is called the interchange¬ 
able numbers of the 1 hyphen 4 series are the 2 hyphen 7 
and all their series, they need not be afraid of such dates 
01 numbers as the 2nd, 6th. nth, 16th, 20th, 25th or 29th. 

It is only when the combination of the 4 and 8 are con¬ 
tinually cropping up that those born under such numbers 
should do their utmost to avoid them. 

Example. —A man born on either the 4th, 13th, 22nd or 
31st marries a woman born on either the 8th, 17th, or 26th. 
tic. will most certainly find that 4’s and 8's will influence his 
life more than any other number, generally bringing sadness, 
ill-luck or terrible blows of fate in their train. To this number 
4 man or woman, I decidedly say avoid using all 4's and 8's 


*33 



134 CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

and use the number i series instead, and for the next best use 
the 2 hyphen 7 series. 

For some reason, due probably to some law of magnetic 
vibration, 4 and 8 people generally attract one another, 
but from a purely worldly standpoint the combination 
cannot be considered "lucky.” They often show the 
highest devotion to one another during illness and mis¬ 
fortune, and some of the greatest examples of self-sacrihce 
are found when 4's and 8’s marry or make a combination 
together. 

Number 8 persons belong to a still more fatalistic law of 
vibration and appear to be "children of fate” more than 
any other class. 

They can be just as noble in character, as devoted and 
self-sacrificing as the best of their fellow mortals, but they 
seldom get the reward that they are entitled to. If they rise 
in life to any high position it is generally one of grave 
responsibility, anxiety, and care. Such persons can become 
rich, but wealth seldom brings them happiness, and for love 
they are generally called on to pay too high a price. 

My advice to them is: If they find the 4's and 8’s con¬ 
tinually coming into their lives and associated with sorrow, 
disappointment, ill-fate and ill-luck, they should deter- 
minately avoid such numbers and all their series. They 
should, in such a case, so alter their name number, following 
the examples I have given in previous chapters, to produce 
one of the more fortunate series, such as 1, 3, 5, or 6, and 
carry out their plans on dates that make these numbers. 
If they will do this they will completely alter their ill-luck 
and control as it were the curious fate that appears to follow 
them. 

If, however, they prefer, as many do, to carry out the 
full force and meaning of their number 8, without caring 
what the worldly result may be, in that case they should 
do exactly as I have said for the other numbers and do 
everything important on dates and numbers that make 
the 8, such as the 8th, 17th, 26th, also the 4th, 13th, 22nd, 
and 31st. 



CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 135 

If they do this they will be equally successful, but in 
leading peculiarly fatalistic lives, being, if I may use the 
expression, "marked” people in whatever path of life they 
may make their own. 

Many have written to ask how to change from an un¬ 
lucky or fatalistic set of numbers to more fortunate ones. 
This question is generally asked by people who are born 
under the series of 4’s and 8’s, and who have proved, as 
I have said, that all combinations of such numbers have 
been more or less associated with fatalistic events in the 
life. In such cases, when persons are born on the 4th, 13th, 
22nd, or 31st in any month they should try to avoid doing 
important things on dates making the 8 or any of its com¬ 
binations, such as the 8th, 17th, 26th, and take instead 
the number 1 series, or the number of the Zodiacal period 
of the month they are born in. For example: A person bom 
between February 19th and March 20th being in the “ period 
of the 3,” if they happen to be bom on February 22nd or 
26th or on March 4th, 8th, 13th, 17th or 22nd, will find it 
more lucky for them to use the 3 series instead of their 
birth number, the 4 or 8. In fact, in such cases it will be 
better for them to drop the birth number altogether. 

The same rule will apply to all the other month periods 
of the year with the exception of the period from December 
21st to January 20th, the period of the number 8 positive, 
and from January 21st to February 19th, the period of 
number 8 negative. If bom in these two periods the 4 and 
8 people must not select the number of the month period. 
because if they did they would only increase the power 
of the 4 and 8. I advise them in such cases to take the 
number of the month period exactly opposite to their Zodiac 
period, which is: For December 21st to January 20th, the 
opposite numbers are those of June 21st to July 20th, 
which, if they refer to page 55 of this book, they will find is 
the period of the 2-7. For people bom January 21st to 
February 19th, the opposite period of the Zodiac is July 31st 
to August 20th, the numbers of which are 1-4. By following 
this rule all people who have the 4 and 8 for their birth 
number will be able to select numbers to use in place of 



136 CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 
the series of their 4’s and 8’s, and by employing the new 
numbers will, in a short time, begin to notice how much 
more fortunate their lives have become. 

They should employ also the colours and jewels which 
their new numbers indicate instead of those given for the 
4’s and 8’s. 

I feel sure this information will be useful to many hun¬ 
dreds who have asked questions on this extremely important 
point. 

Many number 2 persons have written and asked me why 
it is that they find as well as their own number, the 2, 11, 
20, and 29th, that the 8 appears to have a great importance 
in their lives. The reason for this is that the 8, being a 
very strong number, with a fatalistic tendency, tries to 
dominate the weaker number 2, which has a relation to 
itself as 4 times 2 is 8, but the 8 is not a happy combination 
when it comes into the lives of number 2 persons, and it 
should always be regarded as a warning of sorrow and 
disappointment or fatalistic experiences of some kind. 

The 4 will also be found to have a great deal of influence 
with number 2 persons, but this is because it not only 
represents the double of the number 2, but it is also one 
of the interchangeable numbers, such as 1 and 4 are the 
interchangeable numbers of the 2 and 7. 



CHAPTER XXVII 


THE AFFINITY OF COLOURS AND NUMBERS AND HOW 
MUSIC AND NUMBERS ARE ASSOCIATED 

N UMBER i persons, namely those bom on the 1st, 
ioth, 19th, or 28th (numbers which by the addi¬ 
tion of themselves produce the number 1), should 
dress themselves as much as possible in all shades of brown 
(light or dark) and all shades of yellow or gold colours, or 
at least have some of these colours about their person. If 
they have the freedom to select colours for their sleeping 
rooms, they should follow the same rule. 

They will find this colour rule will have an excellent effect 
in soothing their nerves, and they will rest and sleep better 
in rooms having their own colours. 

Number 2 persons, namely, those bom on the 2nd, 
nth, 20th, or 29th, should wear all shades of green 
from the darkest to the lightest shade, also cream and 
white. 

They should avoid all heavy dark colours, especially 
black, purple, and dark red. 

Number 3 persons, namely, those bom on the 3rd, 12th, 
21st, or 30th, should wear shades of mauve, violet, or the 
pale or lilac shade of purple, but as men cannot easily dress 
in such colours, they should at least employ them in them 
neckties, shirts or handkerchiefs. 

Number 4 persons, namely, those bom on the 4th, 13th, 
22nd, or 31st, should wear what are called the "electric 
colours," blue, greys, electric blues, and what are known 
as "half shades.” They should avoid strong or positive 
colours of all kinds. 

Number 5 persons, namely, those bom on the 5th, 14th, 
or 23rd, should wear the light shades of all colours, especially 
light greys, white, and glistening materials. 

They should never wear dark colours if they can possibly 
avoid doing so. 


*37 



138 CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

Number 6 persons, namely, those bom on the 6th, 15th, 
or 24th, should wear all shades of blue, from the lightest 
to the dark navy, what is known as the full or real blue, not 
"electric blue.” For secondary colours, they can also wear 
shades of rose or pink, but not red, scarlet, or crimson, 
unless they are bom between March 21st to April 24th, 
or between October 21st to November 24th. 

Number 7 persons, namely, those bom on the 7th, i6th, 
or 25th, should, like the number 2 persons wear all shades 
of pale green, white, yellow, and gold colours. The palest 
possible shades are best for them, such as what are known 
as "pastel shades.” 

Number 8 persons, namely, those bom on the 8th, 17th, 
or 26th, should wear all shades of dark grey, dark blue, 
purple, and black; light and gaudy colours are out of place 
with them and should be avoided. 

Number 9 persons, namely, those bom on the 9th, 18th, 
or 27th, should wear all shades of red, rose, crimson, pink, 
or red purple. The darker or rich shades of these colours 
are best for them. 

Red is the colour of the soldier, the colour of energy, 
restlessness, and revolution. It is the chosen colour of the 
Revolutionist and Anarchist; hence, the origin of the 
"red flag.” 

On account of the magnetic rays sent off by a number 
9 person, their presence often irritates people belonging 
to other numbers, except those bom under the number 1, 
+he 3, the 5, the 6, or their own number. People bom under 
the other numbers are very often nervous or uncomfort¬ 
able in the presence of a number 9 person. 

Numbers and music show very decided affinities. The 
number 1, 3, and 9 persons like martial, inspiring, or what 
may be called " full-blooded ’’ tones; number 2 and 7 persons 
are more partial to string and wind instruments, such as 
the violin, ’cello, harp, pipes, etc.; number 6 persons like 
romantic, sweet music of all kinds with a lilt and rhythm; 
number 5 persons lean towards either extremely original 
or unusual music, something off the beaten track. Number 
4 and 8 persons, if musical, have a special leaning for the 



CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 139 

organ and make magnificent choir or choral leaders, but in 
all their music there is an undertone of plaintiveness, 
melancholy, religious fervour or fatalism. 

The following are a few examples of countries having 
their own individual or what is called National Music, in 
accordance with the planet and number by which they are 
governed. 

England and Germany, governed by Mars (number 9), 
martial, inspiring, or “full-blooded" music. 

Ireland, governed by Venus (number 6), romantic, sweet 
music, with a lilt or rhythm. 

Scotland, governed by the Moon (number 2) and Saturn 
(number 8), string and wind instruments. 

Wales, governed by Uranus (number 4) and Mercury 
(number 5), original music, with undertone of religious 
fervour, melancholy, choral, and choir. 

The United States, governed by the Planet Mercury 
(number 5), can use the qualities of that number and adapt 
itself to all types of music, but will always lean to what 
is original, new, and out of the ordinary—hence this country 
is the natural birthplace of what is called “jazz” or synco¬ 
pated music. 



CHAPTER XXVIII 


NUMBERS AND DISEASE. PLANETARY SIGNIFICANCE 
OF HERBAL CURES 

I N some of my recent articles in the Press I gave an 
account of the various diseases that are associated with 
persons bom under the numbers that make their birth 
date. I have received so many letters testifying to the 
accuracy of this system and begging me to give further 
information as to indications from occultism regarding 
the cure of diseases, that I have much pleasure in giving 
in this chapter the names of herbs that are beneficial to 
persons bom under the different numbers. 

To keep in good health is one of the essentials to success 
in life, and in following these rules I feel sure my readers 
can only benefit by this advice. 

The same students of occultism who discovered the 
extraordinary influence of numbers in connection with the 
destiny of individuals, also discovered the sympathy of 
certain plants, fruits, and herbs that in the world of nature 
are related to the planets and months of the year in which 
people are born, and so evolved a system by which pain 
and illness can be alleviated by the use of such herbs, or 
fruits which correspond to each planet and consequently 
to the number of birth. 

I have collected this information from some of the most 
ancient sources of knowledge on occultism and from those 
who have devoted their lives to the investigation of the 
subject. To this I have added my own lifelong experience, 
in the belief that by the study of nature we may find the 
secrets of nature and so honour nature's God by fitting in 
with His purpose and design, which is shown in all things, 
from the smallest to the greatest. 

Number I persons, or all those bom on the 1st, ioth, 
19th, and 28th of any month, have a tendency to suffer 


*4° 



CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 141 

from the heart in some form or another, such as palpitation, 
irregular circulation, and in advanced life, high blood- 
pressure. They are also likely to have trouble with the 
eyes, or astigmatism, and would do well to have their sight 
carefully tested from time to time. 

The principal herbs and fruits for number 1 persons, 
or all those whose birth number is the 1st. 10th, 19th, or 
28th, arc: 

Raisins, camomile, eye-bright, St. John’s wort, saffron, 
cloves, nutmeg, sorrel, borage, gentian root, lavender, bay 
leaves, oranges, lemons, dates, thyme, myrrh, musk vervain, 
ginger, barley (barley bread and barley water). Number 
1 persons should eat honey as much as possible. 

They will find their nineteenth, twenty-eighth, thirty- 
seventh, and fifty-fifth years will bring them important 
changes in health one way or the other. 

The months to be most guarded against ill-health and 
overwork are: October, December and January. 

Number 2 persons, or all those whose birth number is 
the and. nth, 20th, or 29th, have a tendency to suffer 
with the stomach and digestive organs. They are liable to 
such things as ptomaine poisoning, gastric troubles, inflam¬ 
mation of the bowels, internal growths, tumours, etc. 

The principal herbs for number 2 persons, or those born 
on the 2nd, nth, 20th, or 29th of any month, are: Lettuce, 
cabbages, turnips, cucumber, melon, chicory or endive, 
rapeseed, colewort, moonwort, linseed, water plantain, and 
ash of willow. 

They will find the twentieth, twenty-fifth, twenth-ninth, 
forty-third, forty-seventh, fifty-second, and sixty-fifth years 
will bring them important changes in health. The three 
months to be most guarded against for ill-health and over¬ 
work are January, February, and July. 

Number 3 persons, or all those born on the 3rd, 12th, 
21st, or 30th, have a tendency to suffer from overstrain of 
the nervous system, generally brought on by overwork and 
their desire not to spare themselves in anything they do. 

They are inclined to have severe attacks of neuritis 
and sciatica, also many forms of skin troubles. 



142 CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

The principal herbs for number 3 persons, or those bom 
on the 3rd, 12th, 21st, or 30th of any month, are beets, 
borage, bilberries, asparagus, dandelion, endive, ewerwort, 
lungwort, sage, cherries, barberries, strawberries, apples, 
mulberries, peaches, olives, rhubarb, gooseberries, pome¬ 
granates, pineapples, grapes, mint, saffron, nutmegs, cloves, 
sweet marjoram, St. John's wort, almonds, figs, hazel-nuts, 
and wheat. 

The months to be most guarded against for ill-health 
and overwork are December, February, June and Septem¬ 
ber. The important years for changes in health are the 
twelfth, twenty-first, thirty-ninth, forty-eighth, and fifty- 
seventh. 

Number 4 persons, or all those bom on the 4th, 13th, 
22nd, or 31st, have a likelihood of suffering from mysterious 
ailments, difficult of ordinary diagnosis. They are more or 
less inclined to melancholia, and mental disorders, anaemia, 
pains in the head and back, bladder, and kidneys. 

The principal herbs for number 4 persons, or those born 
on the 4th, 13th, 22nd or 31st of any month, are spinach, 
sage, pilewort, wintergreen, medlars, iceland-moss, and 
Solomon’s seal. Number 4 persons derive the greatest 
benefit from electric treatment of all kinds, mental sugges¬ 
tion, and hypnotism. They should be particularly careful 
to avoid drugs, also highly seasoned dishes and red meat. 

The months to be guarded against for ill-health and 
overwork are January, February, July, August, and Septem¬ 
ber. 

The important years for their health, are the thirteenth, 
twenty-second, thirty-first, fortieth, forty-ninth and fifty- 
eighth. 

Number 5 persons, or all those bom on the 5th, 14th, 
or 23rd, have a tendency to overstrain of the nervous 
system. They are inclined to attempt too much mentally, 
to live too much on their nerves. They are likely to bring on 
such things as neuritis, twitching in the face, eyes, and 
hands, and are more prone to nervous prostration, insomnia, 
and paralysis than any other class. Sleep, rest, and quietude 
are the best medicines they can employ. 



CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 143 

The principal herbs for number 5 persons or those bom 
on the 5th, 14th, or 23rd of any month, are carrots, parsnips, 
sea-kale, oats in the form of oatmeal or bread, parsley, 
sweet marjoram, champignons, caraway seeds, thyme, 
nuts of all kinds, but especially hazel-nuts and walnuts. 

The months to be most guarded against for ill-health 
and overwork are June, September, and December. 

The important years for changes in their health are the 
fourteenth, twenty-third, forty-first, and fiftieth years. 

Number 6 persons, or all those born on the 6tli, or 15th, 
24th, are inclined to suffer with the throat, nose, and upper 
part of the lungs. As a rule they have a strong robust 
constitution, especially if they can live in the open or in the 
country, where they can have plenty of air and exercise. 
Women bom under the number 6 often suffer with their 
breasts and in childbirth are prone to "milk fever.” The 
heart as a general rule becomes affected in the latter years 
and produces irregular circulation of the blood. 

The herbs for number 6 persons, or those bom on the 6th, 
15th, or 24th of any month, are all kinds of beans, parsnips, 
spinach, marrows, mint, melons, motherwort, pomegranates, 
apples, peaches, apricots, figs, walnuts, almonds and the 
juice of maidenhair-fern, daffodils, wild thyme, musk, 
violets, vervain, and rose leaves. 

The months to be most guarded against for ill-health 
and overwork are May, October, and November. 

They will find that the fifteenth, twenty-fourth, forty- 
second, fifty-first and sixtieth years will bring them im¬ 
portant changes in health. 

Number 7 persons, or those who are bom on the 7th, 
16th, or 25th, are more easily affected by worry and annoy¬ 
ance than any other class. As long as things are going 
smoothly, they can get through any amount of work, but 
if worried, either by circumstances or people, they are 
inclined to imagine things are worse than they are and get 
easily despondent and melancholy. 

They are extremely sensitive to their surroundings; they 
will gladly accept any responsibility for those who appear 
to appreciate them; they are unusually conscientious in 



144 CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

doing any work that is interesting to them, but as they are 
stronger mentally than physically, they have often frail 
bodies that attempt too much for their strength. They are 
inclined to have some peculiar delicacy in connection with 
the skin; it is either extremely sensitive to friction, has 
some peculiarity as regards perspiration, or develops 
pimples, boils or rashes from anything that disagrees 
with their digestive organs. 

The principal herbs for number 7 persons, or those born 
on the 7th, 16th, or 25th in any month, are lettuce, cabbage, 
chicory, or endive, cucumber, colewort, linseed, mush¬ 
rooms, ceps, sorrel, apples, grapes, and the juices of all 
fruits. The months to be most guarded against for ill-health 
and overwork are January, February, July, and August. 

The most important years for changes in health are the 
seventh, sixteenth, twenty-fifth, thirty-fourth, forty-third, 
fifty-second, and sixty-first. 

Number 8 persons, or those bom on the 8th, 17th, or 26th, 
are as a rule more liable to troubles with the. liver, bile, 
intestines, and excretory part of the system than any other 
class. They are prone to suffer with headaches, diseases of 
the blood, auto-poisoning, and rheumatism. They should 
avoid animal food as much as possible and live on fruit, 
herbs, and vegetables. 

The principal herbs for number 8 persons, or those bom 
on the 8th, 17th, or 26th in any month, are spinach, winter 
green, angelica, wild carrot, marshmallow, plantain, sage, 
pileworth, ragwort, shepherd's purse, Solomon’s seal, ver¬ 
vain, elder flowers, gravel root, mandrake root, celery. 

The months to be most guarded against for ill-health 
and effects of overwork are December, January, February, 
and July. They will find the most important years for 
changes in health are the seventeenth, twenty-sixth, thirty- 
fifth, forty-fourth, fifty-third, and sixty-second. 

Number 9 persons, or those bom on the 9th, 18th, or 
27th, are more or less inclined to fevers of all kinds, measles, 
smallpox, chicken-pox, scarlatina, and such-like. They 
should avoid rich food, also alcoholic drinks or wines. 

The principal herbs for number 9 persons, or those born 



CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 145 

011 the cjth, 18th, or 27th of any month, are onions, garlic, 
leeks, horse-radish, rhubarb, mustard-seed, wormwood, 
betony, spear-wort, white hellebore, ginger, pepper, broom, 
rape, madder, hops, danewort, and juice of nettles. 

The months to be most guarded against for ill-health 
or the effects of overwork are April, May, October, and 
November. 

They will find the most important years for changes in 
the health are the ninth, eighteenth, twenty-seventh, 
thirty-sixth, forty-fifth, and sixty-third. 

The herbs that have been mentioned in these pages can 
he obtained from all good herbalists in almost all countries, 
Herbs are nature’s own remedies. 



CHAPTER XXIX 


HOW TO KNOW WHAT CITY, TOWN, OR PLACE IS FORTUNATE 
FOR ONE TO LIVE IN 

I N tins chapter I intend to show how each person may 
more easily find if any city, town, or place is in a har¬ 
monious vibration with themselves. 

Such information should be of great value to those who 
find, as so many do, that a certain town or place has proved 
unfortunate; they may desire to make a change, but as 
they have nothing to guide them, they do not know what 
to do or how to arrive at a decision. The following rules 
will, I believe, be of great help to all such people. 

Taking the numbers i to 9 as the foundation numbers, 
which by now all those readers who have followed my books 
will know are the basic numbers by which all calculation 
on this earth is founded, I will therefore give examples of 
how each birth number may be found in any city, town, or 
place. 

Work out the numbers of the name of the city or town 
by the numbers given to each letter by the Mystic Alphabet 
which I give on page 70. Put these numbers under each 
letter and add them together until only one figure remains; 
if this single number corresponds to the birth number, 
then the vibrations of that city, town, or place will accord 
with the individual, and the district indicated by the 
number should be fortunate for the person whose birth 
number corresponds with it, and still more so if the person’s 
name number is also in accord. 

Number 1 persons, such as all those born on the isi, 
10th, 19th, or 28th, would therefore find the following towns 
more likely to be favourable. We will take as an example 
Manchester. The name works out as follows: 

MANCHESTER 
4 I 535534 5 Z =37 and 3 plus 7 
= 10 or the single number 1. 

146 



147 


CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 
Other towns that make the number I are: 


Birmingham ..... i 

Boston ...... r 

New York.i 

Alexandria ..... i 

Whitechapel ..... i 


or any other town or place that will by this system produce 
the number I. 

Number i and 4 and number 2 and 7 persons have a 
greater choice than those born under any of the other 
numbers, for, as I have previously explained in my writings 
on this subject, number 1 belongs to the 1 hyphen 4 series 
whose interchangeable or sympathetic numbers are the 2 
hyphen 7 series; therefore number 1, 2, 4 or 7 persons could 
select all places that give as their single number any of 
the series of 1, 2, 4, or 7. 

Number 2 persons, or all those born on the 2nd, nth, 
20th, or 29th, can select any town whose final number 
makes any one of the above series, but more especially a 
town making their own series of the 2. We will take as an 
example: 

LEEDS 

35543 = 20 = 2 

or any of the following places which all total to the number 2: 

Plymouth.2 

Los Angeles ..... 2 

Norwich.2 

Brighton ..... 2 

Number 3 persons, or all those born on the 3rd, 12th, 

21st, or 30th, can take as an example: 


CREWE 

23565= 21 =3 







x 4 8 CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

or any of the following towns which add to the number 3, 

such as: 


Dublin 

Bath 

Reading 

Limerick 

Moscow . 

Melbourne 

York 

Nottingham 
Devonport 
Bradford . 


3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 


Number 4 persons, or all those bom on the 4 th, 13th, 
22nd, or 31st, can take as an example: 


LONDON 
375475 = 3 i =4 


or any of the following towns which add to the number 4, 
such as: 


Paisley 

Bristol 

Leicester 

Quebec 

Montreal 

Stockport 

Salisbury . 


4 

4 

4 

4 

4 

4 

4 


or any town indicated by the numbers of the x, 2, 4, or 7 
series, as I explained earlier. 

Number 5 persons, or all those bom on the 5th, 14th, 
or 23rd, can take as an example: 


TAUNTON 
4165475= 32 =5 

or any of the following towns which add to the number 5, 
such as: 











CHEIRO’S 

Southport 
Portsmouth 
Chicago . 

Cork 
Vienna 

Hut as the number 5 is the only number that can associate 
or harmonise with any other number, they need not be so 
careful as to what place they select, for as they can get on 
with persons born under any other number almost equally 
as well as with those bom under their own, so in the same 
way they get on equally well in any city or place no matter 
what its number may be. 

Number 6 persons, or all those bom on the 6th, 15th, 
01 24th, can take as an example: 

LI VERPOO L 
316528773 = 42 = 6 

01 any of the following towns, which add to the number 6, 
such as: 


BOOK OF NUMBERS 


5 

5 

5 

5 

5 


149 


Edinburgli.6 

Swansea.6 

Paris.6 

Dover.6 

Worthing ..... 6 

Halifax ...... 6 

Oxford.6 

Cologne.6 

San Francisco .... 6 

Cowes ...... 6 

Sheffield.6 


Number 7 persons, or all those bom on the 7th, 16th, 
or 25th, can take as an example: 

WIGAN 

61315 = 16 = 7 

01 any of the following towns which add to the number 7, 
such as: 













150 


CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 


Doncaster 
Hollywood 
Whitehaven 
Auckland 
Calcutta . 
Tiverton . 
Grimsby . 
Preston . 


7 

7 

7 

7 

7 

7 

7 

7 


or any town indicated by the numbers of the i, 2, 4, 7 
series, as I explained earlier. 

Number 8 persons, or all those born on the 8th, 17th, or 
26th, can take as an example: 


GLASGOW 
331337b =26 =8 


or any of the following towns, such as 
Belfast 

Stoke-on-Trent 
Hull 

Bombay . 

Bournemouth 

But, as I have explained on page 135 of this book, 1 advise 
all number 4 and 8 persons not to increase the influence of 
the number 8 by employing or living under this strangely 
fatalistic number, but instead to make their name number 
work out to a more fortunate vibration, such as those of 
the 1, 3, 5. or 6 series. 

Number 9 persons, or all those bom on the 9th, 18th, or 
27th, can take as an example: 

WOLVERHAMPTON 
6736525148475 =b 3 = 9 

or any of the following towns which add to the number 9, 
such as: 

Blackpool.9 

Whitehead • 9 

St. Louis.9 


8 

8 

8 

8 










CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 151 
Berlin ...... 9 

Rome ...... g 

Toronto ...... 9 

Brussels.9 


As I have explained previously, the series of 3, 6, 9, if 
added together in any direction, produce a 9 as their final 
digit, so the persons born under any one of these series will 
Imd others bom under any of these series sympathetic to 
them, so also can they take any city or town whose final 
number makes a 3, 6, 9, as if they used only their own 
individual number. 

In conclusion, it should be born in mind that towns and 
places should be regarded as the larger octave of harmony, 
the number of one’s house the more intimate, the number 
of the date and day of the week the more immediate as 
regards events, and the birth number of persons in relation 
to oneself as the more personal as regards our feelings, affec¬ 
tions, and home life. 

If this is borne in mind, the reason and logic of this 
special system of Numerology is easily seen, and the har¬ 
mony it makes for becomes apparent to every student of 
humanity. 




CHAPTER XXX 


HORSE-RACING AND NUMBERS 

I HAVE received so many letters asking for information 
as to how my system of numbers could be employed 
in "betting,” that I cannot conclude this book without 
trying to give some advice on a subject that is of interest 
to so many thousands. 

There is no doubt that the study of numbers can open 
up a new field for the successful backing of horses, but there 
is no saying more true than "a little knowledge is a dan¬ 
gerous thing.” 

My experience is that people are too much inclined to 
think that because they have proved that the system I teach 
has such a bearing on the leading events in their own indi¬ 
vidual lives, that without more preparation they are ready 
to plunge into racing and back any horse whose name 
makes the same number as their own. 

The point so many people seem to forget is that horse- 
racing is an extremely complicated business, so much so 
that "tips,” even from owners and jockeys, are as a rule 
as equally unreliable as the hundred and one systems that 
are offered daily to the public by almost every newspaper 
that one picks up. 

Many important racing events have upset all theories as to 
forecasting the winner by a study of "form,” previous 
running, and so forth. At many races complete outsiders 
have, for no apparent reason, beaten the most heavily 
backed favourites. 

Can the study of numbers be used to give a clear indica¬ 
tion of which horses are likely to be first, second, and third? 

I say most emphatically that it can, but the trouble is 
that it is so rare to find persons who can " keep their heads” 
when it comes to such a thing as a sysletnatic employment 
of any method, and more particularly with numbers. 

If one really made up one’s mind to experiment with the 


152 



CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 153 

system of numbers as set out in these pages in connection 
with betting, one would have to do it on the following lines: 

To attend the race meeting in person. 

Select a day whose number accords with one's own. 

If possible, find out the jockeys whose birth number is 
the same as the number of the day. 

When all these numbers are in accord, say, for example, 
if they all worked out to a number, such as the 9, then 
such horses, if they run under the numbers 9, 18, and 27 
on that day would certainly be more likely to come in as 
lirst, second, and third than any others. 

In such a case it would be necessary to back the three 
horses that are to run under the numbers 9, 18, and 27 on 
the starting board for "win and place.” If there were a 
greater number than 36 running in the race it would be 
necessary also to take in the horse under that number, but 
if too much money would be at stake by backing all four, 
a good rule is to select the two youngest horses out of the four 
and back these two for "win and place.” If there were not 
much difference in age, the next rule to employ is to select 
the youngest male horse in preference to the youngest female. 
If on the lirst race, one lost on the following race the stakes 
should be doubled, and so on systematically during the 
day. If this plan were carried out and the numbers selected 
steadfastly adhered to, one would sooner or later be re¬ 
warded by a lirst, second, or it may be all three, with the 
added chance of getting a complete outsider in some of the 
events. 

The great difficulty is that so few persons at a race 
meeting have sufficient strength of will to follow such a 
plan systematically. They may try it for one race and, 
because they have not met with immediate success, they 
are likely to do nothing for the next event or plunge after 
some "tip” they have had given them, and so on. 

To those who are unable to attend the race meeting 
jiersonally, I do not advise them to try to "find the winner” 
by numbers, for the simple reason that if they have not 
got the running number of the horse they miss one of the 
principal elements for success. 



CHAPTER XXXI 


EXAMPLES FROM THE NAMES OF SOME PRESIDENTS OF THE 
UNITED STATES 

GEORGE WASHINGTON 

I N taking illustrations from the names of Presidents of 
the United States, 1 cannot do better than start with 
the name of George Washington. 

GEORGE WASHINGTON 
357235 6 135153475 

25 40 

7 4 = 11 = 2 

The number of the famous name of George Washington, 
the 1st President of the United States, worked out by the 
Chaldean or Hebrew alphabet, as set out in the article 
on Lloyd George, gives to the name cf.orge the compound 
number of 25, with its single or final digit of 7. On looking 
up the meaning of the compound number of 25 on page 83, 
it will be found stated: 

This is a number denoting strength gained through experience 
and benefits obtained through observation of people and things. 
It is not deemed exactly "lucky,” as its success is given through 
strife and trials in the earlier life. It is favourable when it appears 
in regard to the future. 

The word Washington works out to the compound num¬ 
ber of 40, with its single digit of 4. 

The meaning of this compound number is given on page 
84 as: 


This is a number of thoughtful deduction, retrospection and 
mental superiority over one's fellows, but as it seems to belong 



CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 155 

to the mental plane, the persons it represents are likely to put 
all material tilings on one side—not because they have to, but 
because they wish to do so. 

This is remarkably borne out by Washington’s resigna¬ 
tion of the position of Commander-in-Chief of the victorious 
American Army when he met his assembled Generals for 
the last time. His own words were, "With heart full of 
love and gratitude, I now take leave of you.’’ Addressing 
the President of Congress, Washington said: 

The great events on which my resignation depended having, 
at length, taken place, I have now the honour to surrender 
into their [Congress’s] hands the trust committed to me and 
to claim the indulgence of retiring from the service of my country. 
Having now finished the work assigned me, I retire. 

This really great man, so justly called the "Father of 
the United States,” refused to accept any reward for his 
long years of arduous service, and thus retired to his home 
at Mount Vernon. 

The distinguished name of George Washington bears out 
in a remarkable manner the occult meaning of the numbers 
of this name. 

If the final digits of 7 for george and 4 for Washington 
be added together they produce eleven (11), with the single 
digit of 2. This compound number 11, on being raised to its 
higher octave, 20, gives for this compound number (see 
page 82) the symbol of "The Awakening,” also "The 
Judgment,” with the interpretation, 

The awakening of new purpose, new plans, new ambitions, 
the call to action, but for some great purpose, cause, or duty. 

It will thus be seen from this example how wonderfully 
this system of Numerology fits in with and explains the 
underlying qualities of the character of George Washington. 

By knowing the birth date of an individual and seeing if 
the number of the date is in harmonious vibration with the 
number given by the name is of considerable help in arriving 
at a summing up of the general characteristics. 



156 CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

If the number of the birth date and the number given 
by the name are not in accord, the promise of the man’s 
or woman’s career will not be so definite. 

Returning to the name of George Washington, as an 
example, the last digit is the figure 2, with 7 and 4 as the 
principal digits of the name. 

Now, Washington's birthday is celebrated as February 
22nd, which makes the double figure in this system to be 
written as 4 hyphen 1, with its interchangeable numbers 
of 2 hyphen 7. (See page 46.) Some people claim that 
his birth date was February nth, in the old-style 
calendar. Should this be the date taken, it would not alter 
the effect of the number of his name working out to the 
final digit of a 2, because, whether it was February 22nd, 
a 4, or February nth, a 2, they arc: both interchangeable 
numbers with one another, and in consequence the number 
of the name and the number of the birth date arc in har¬ 
monious vibration together. 

Should the number of the name and the number of the 
birth date not be in harmony or accord, it indicates that one 
is likely to find a jumble or unevenness in the plans and 
careers of the man or woman the numbers not in vibration 
to one another represent. 

ABRAHAM LINCOLN 

Abraham Lincoln born February 12, 1809, assassinated 
on the night of Friday, April 14, 1865, died April 15. 

The name works out as follows: 

ABRAHAM LINCOLN 
1221514 3153735 

16 27 

7 9 = 16 = 7 

In this case the birth number, the single digit 3, and the 
single digit of the name are not in harmonious accord. 



CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 157 

The single digit of 3 for the birth is a powerful number, 
being in itself representative of the Planet Jupiter; it indi¬ 
cates underlying ambition, the power to rule and dictate. 
In describing these persons on page 43, I have stated: 

Number 3 people . . . arc decidedly ambitious; they are 
never satisfied in being in subordinate positions; their aim is to 
rise in the world, to have control and authority over others. 
They are excellent in the execution of commands; they love 
order and discipline in all things; they readily obey orders them¬ 
selves. but they also insist on having their orders obeyed. 
Number 3 people often rise to the very highest positions in any 
business, profession, or sphere in which they may be found. 
They often excel in position of authority in the Army and Navy, 
in Government, and in life generally; and especially in all posts 
of trust and responsibility, as they are extremely conscientious 
in carrying out their duties. 

The final digit of the name abraham Lincoln, a 7, is 
more weak or gentle in its qualities, as I have stated on 
page 55: 

People bom under the number 7 . . . are very independent, 
original, and have strongly marked individuality . . . but in 
everything they do, they sooner or later show a peculiar philo¬ 
sophical outlook on life that tinges all their work. 

On page 56, I further said, number 7 people have "a 
peculiar magnetism that has great influence over others.” 

The description by this system of Numerology, it must 
be admitted, accords closely with the well-known character 
of Abraham Lincoln. 

Turning to the more mysterious or hidden influences 
indicated by the compound numbers, if we add the single 
digit of the birth number, the 3, to the digit of the name 
number, the 7, they produce the compound number of 10. 
On page 80 we read: 

10. Symbolised as the "Wheel of Fortune.” It is a number 
of honour, of faith and self-confidence, of rise and fall; one's 
name will be known for good or evil, according to one’s desires; 



158 CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

it is a fortunate number in the sense that one’s plans are likely 
to be carried out. 

Taking the compound number of the birth, February 12th, 
for another indication of the occult influences governing this 
career, we read for this number on page 80: 

12. The symbolism of this number is suffering and anxiety 
of mind. It is also indicated as “the Sacrifice” or "the Victim" 
and generally foreshadows one being sacrificed for the plans or 
intrigues of others. 

Now, turning to the compound number of the name, 16, 
we read on page 81: 

16. This number has a most peculiar occult symbolism. It 
is pictured by "a Tower Struck by Lightning from which a man 
is falling with a Crown on his head.” It is also called "the 
Shattered Citadel." 

It gives warning of some strange fatality awaiting one. 

When one considers Lincoln's sudden assassination as 
he sat in a box in a theatre on the night of Friday, April 
14th, one cannot help being astonished at the truth under¬ 
lying this system of occult significance of the compound 
numbers. 

Further, Abraham Lincoln was the 16th President of 
the United States, the single digit of this number, the 7. 
corresponding to the single digit of his name. 

GROVER CLEVELAND 

Grover Cleveland, 22nd President of the United States, 
born March 18th, 1837, died June 24th, 1908. 

The numbers that are formed by the name of Grover 
Cleveland are as follows: 

GROVER CLEVELAND 
327652 335653154 


7 


3 5 
8 


= 15 = 6 



CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 159 

The birth number, March 18th, gives the single digit of 9. 
If one will refer back to the illustration on page 31, one will 
also see that this date fell into the period of the number 3 
(Negative) or House of Jupiter, the planet whose number 
is a 3. 

The addition of all the figures made by the. name grover 
Cleveland works out to the single digit of 6. Even his 
death, which took place on June 24th, came on a date whose 
ligures, by addition, 2 plus 4, made a 6, and the year in 
which he died, 1908, which, if added together, produced, 
for its last digit, the 9; the same as the day of birth, which 
also made the figure of 9. 

Here we have a remarkable example of the birth and 
name number being in accord, as the numbers of 3, 6, 9 
are interchangeable and in harmonious vibration with one 
another. 

On my visit to Washington during the Cleveland Admin¬ 
istration, both the President and Mrs. Cleveland received 
me in a most hospitable way. One afternoon, while having 
tea with the Lady of the White House, the President 
dropped in at the end of a Cabinet meeting, and, seeing 
me engaged in reading Mrs. Cleveland's hands and working 
out her fadic numbers, he became interested and had me 
work out his own. 

He was especially struck by the curious predominance 
of the numbers 3, 6, 9, and all their series that appeared to 
run like milestones through his life. 

The compound number of his name, namely 15, if the 
reader will turn back to page 80, he will find described as: 

... a number of occult significance, of magic and mystery; 
but as a rule it does not represent the higher side of occultism, 
its meaning being that the persons represented by it will use 
every art of magic they can to carry out their purpose. If 
associated with a good or fortunate single number, it can be 
very lucky and powerful. 

(This was so in Grover Cleveland's case; the last digit of 
his birth number being a 9, the number of Mars, a strong 
number in his combination.) 



160 CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

To continue the description of the compound Number 15, 
as set out on page 81, it goes on to say • 

It is peculiarly associated with "good talkers,” often with 
eloquence, gifts of Music and Art and a dramatic personality, 
combined with voluptuousness and strong personal magnetism. 

This description of what may be called "the inner side,” 
which the compound number of a name always denotes, 
was peculiarly suitable to the well-known character of 
Grover Cleveland. 

WARREN G. HARDING 

Warren G. Harding, 29th President of the United States, 
was born at Blooming Grove, Ohio, on November 2nd, 1865. 
Died August 3rd, 1923, of some form of poisoning, supposed 
to be ptomaine. His sudden death on the eve of an investi¬ 
gation into his administration caused a considerable amount 
of sensation and speculation. 

The numbers of his name are as follows: 

WARREN G HA RD I NG 
612255 3 5124153 


2 1 21 

3 3 3 =9 

Here we have an example of no accord or harmonious 
vibration between the birth number, November 2nd, and 
the number of the name, whose final digit is 9. 

The 2 (as I stated on page 40) "stands in symbolism for 
the Moon,” while the 9 "stands in symbolism for the 
Planet Mars” (see page 64). Consequently, in this case, 
there is a complete dissimilarity and disaccord in the 
qualities expressed by these numbers. 

In a previous chapter I have explained that when the 
birth number and name number are not in accord, consider¬ 
able jumble or unevenness may be expected in the per- 



CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 161 

son’s career. In the case under observation, one could 
hardly find a greater dissimilarity than in the qualities 
expressed by the numbers of the Moon (2) and Mars (9). 
Had President Harding lived for even another year, there 
is no doubt that great irregularities would have been brought 
to light in connection with his term of office. 

As no compound number was made by the birth date, 
November 2nd, or by the letters of the name, which came 
to a 9, to find a compound number we must, therefore, add 
the name number and birth number together, 9 plus 2 
equals II. Turning back to the explanation given to 
compound numbers (on page 80) for the number ii, we 
read: 

This is an ominous number to occultists. It gives warning of 
hidden dangers, trial, and treachery from others. It has a symbol 
of "a Clenched Hand” and "a Lion Muzzled.” 

The symbolism in this case is still more emphasised by 
the fact that the birth number and the name number are, 
as I have explained in a preceding paragraph, in extreme 
disaccord, indicating general muddle and want of harmony 
m the affairs of life. 

This example is the exact opposite of the illustration I 
have given of the numbers governing the destiny of Calvin 
Coolidge, whose numbers, the 4 and 7, are interchangeable 
and in harmony with one another. So that, though by 
addition they produce the number 11 and give the same 
symbol, it is not the "Clenched Hand” and the "Lion 
Muzzled” by fear, as in President Harding’s case; but the 
harmonious control of self that, in such a position of respon¬ 
sibility, surrounded by “ hidden dangers, trial, and treachery 
from others” required to be "a Clenched Hand” and "a 
Lion Muzzled ” in order to escape. 

Returning to Warren G. Harding, by a curious coinci¬ 
dence, he was in his fifty-seventh year leading up to his 
mysterious death on August 3rd, 1923. The number 57 
added together produces the compound number 12. This 
is described on page 80 as follows: 



i62 CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

The symbolism of this number is suffering and anxiety of 
mind. It is also indicated as "the Sacrifice" or “the Victim” 
and generally foreshadows one being sacrificed for the plans or 
intrigues of others. 

To anyone who has read the history of President Har¬ 
ding's career, this is, alas! a fitting description of the last 
year of his life. 


THEODORE ROOSEVELT 

Theodore Roosevelt, the 26th President of the United 
States, was born October 27th, 1858. Died January 6th, 
1919. 

The numbers of his name are as follows: 

THEODORE RO O S E V E LT 
4 5 574725 277356534 


3 9 = 12 42 

3 6=9 

The single digit of the birth number, October 27th, gives 
not only the Mars number of 9, but (if one refers back to 
the illustration on page 31) one will see that this part of 
October, in the Zodiac, is placed in the period of number 9 
(Negative), also called the House of Mars. 

Theodore Roosevelt was, therefore, by both birth number 
and name number, a Mars man in the truest sense of the 
word. He was a born fighter; independent in spirit, he cared 
nothing for the opinions of others. 

He was put into the position of Vice-President of the 
United States in order to prevent his becoming President. 
Fate had, however, ordained otherwise; the assassination 
of William McKinley on October 14th, 1901, placed him 
in the highest office of the American nation. 

Mars men, if they rise to any important position, rarely 
escape attempts against their lives. Theodore Roosevelt 
was no exception to this rule. On October 14th, 1912, he 



CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 163 

was badly wounded in an anarchist’s attempt to assassinate 
him. 

If one reads the description of number 9 persons which 
I have given (in Chapter XI), it would appear to have been 
written to lit his case: 

Number 9 persons are fighters in all they attempt in life. 
They usually have difficult times in their early years, but gener¬ 
ally they are, in the end, successful by their grit, strong will, 
and determination. 

In character, they are hasty in temper, impulsive, indepen¬ 
dent and desire to be their own masters. 

When the Number 9 is noticed to be more than usually 
dominant in the dates and events of their lives, they will be 
found to make great enemies, to cause strife and opposition 
wherever they may be, and they are often wounded or killed 
either in warfare or in the battle of life. 

They have great courage and make excellent soldiers or leaders 
in any cause they espouse. 

As there is no compound number in the digits of the name 
Theodore Roosevelt, one obtains it by the addition of 
the 9 of the name number to the 9 of the birth number, 
9 plus 9 equals 18. Looking up this compound number 
(on page 81), one reads: 

It is symbolic of materialism striving to destroy the spiritual 
side of the nature. It generally associates a person with bitter 
quarrels, even family ones, also with war, revolutions, social 
upheavals; and in some cases it indicates making money and 
position through wars or by wars. 

Theodore Roosevelt may not have made money out of the 
Spanish-American War, but he certainly did make position, 
for, as organiser and commander of Roosevelt’s Rough 
Riders, his name became a household word, not only in the 
United States, but in the world itself. 

I had the honour of meeting this really great man on two 
occasions when he was Governor of New York State. He 
was frank enough and materialistic enough to tell me he 
did not believe in occultism in any form, and yet, after the 



164 CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 
death of Major John A. Logan, which I had predicted 
several years in advance, as related in my Memoirs , 1 he 
admitted that this occurrence had compelled him to alter 
his views on the mysterious workings of Fate. 


WOODROW WILSON 

Woodrow Wilson, 28th President of the United States, 
was bom December 28th, 1856. Died February 3rd, 1924. 
The numbers of his name are as follows: 


WOODROW WILSON 
6774276 613375 


3 9 = 12 25 

3 7 = JO = 1 


The single digit of his birth number is 28=10 or 1, as 
the zero does not count. The single digit of his name works 
out to a 1. 28th President, the final digit is also a 1. 
This is a remarkable example of harmonious vibration 
between the birth number and name number. 

In writing of number 1 persons (on page 38), I have 
explained that, in this system of Numerology, the number 1 
is always written as the figure 1 hyphen 4 and its inter¬ 
changeable numbers as 2 hyphen 7. 

These numbers were intimately associated with the most 
important acts of President Wilson's life, as any person will 
observe who looks up his career: 


Born December 28th 

The year 1856 .... 

Year of death, 1924 

28th President .... 

Last digit of name 

Inaugurated President 1st time March 4th 


Produces a 1 

>■ a 2 

a n 7 

a a ^ 

a a ^ 

11 M 4 


1 Confessions: Memoirs of a Modern Seer, Jarrold's Ltd., London. 









CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 165 

His note to Germany on Lusitania, May 13th . Produces a 4 
Severed diplomatic relations with Germany, 

February 4th.. ' ,, 4 

Took oath of office 2nd time March 4th . . ,, „ 4 

His War message to Congress, April 2nd . . ,, ,, 2 

Landed in France, December 13th . . . ,, ,,4 

First convoy of ships to Great War, June 13th . ,, ,,4 

Decisive battle U.S. troops at St. Mihiel, Septem¬ 
ber 13th.. ,, 4 

Armistice signed, November nth . „ 2 


The compound number of 10 made by his name (as set 
out on page 80) reads: 

Symbolised as the "Wheel of Fortune.” It is a number of 
honour, of faith and self-confidence, of rise and fall; one’s name 
will be known for good or evil, according to one’s desires; it is 
a fortunate number in the sense that one’s plans are likely to 
be carried out. 

Whether the Senate and Congress disagreed with Presi¬ 
dent Wilson or not, one must admit that he carried through 
his famous "Fourteen Points" at the Treaty of Versailles. 


CALVIN COOLIDGE 

Calvin Coolidge, 30th President of the United States, was 
bom in the state of Vermont on July 4th, 1872. 

The numbers made by his name are as follows: 

CALVIN COOLIDGE 
3x3615 3773 X 435 


19 = 10 33 

1 6=7 

As there is no compound number produced by the letters 
of this name, we must add the birth number of the 4 to the 



166 CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

single digit of the name, the 7, thus producing the compound 

number of 11. On page 80 we read: 

This is an ominous number to occultists. It gives warning 
of hidden dangers, trial, and treachery from others. It has a 
symbol of "a Clenched Hand” and "a Lion Muzzled.” 

This may account for the proverbial reticence, silence, 
and noncommittal utterances of a man who, from small 
beginnings, rose to be President of the United States. 

The fact that the name number 7 is one of the inter¬ 
changeable numbers with the 4 of the birth date, placed 
these numbers in harmonious vibration with one another, 
which, no doubt, was a considerable factor in the success 
of his remarkable career. 

Calvin Coolidge, having the number 4 for his birth number, 
especially in the period of the year of the 2 hyphen 7 (as 
will be seen if one turns back to page 46), was not a worldly 
man or one craving for power. It was, consequently, 
extremely difficult for him to come out of his retirement 
and stand again for President unless some unusual influence 
had been brought to bear on his decision not to do so. 

His numbers indicate him to be of an extremely sensitive 
nature, one not caring for the clash and turmoil of political 
strile. Nothing short of a great national crisis in the affairs 
of his country, or a unanimous demand from the people, 
would, in my opinion, have influenced such a man to face 
again a Presidential campaign. 

In passing, I may remark that during his term as President 
he sent me a letter of appreciation on my book, Cheiro's 
World Predictions. 

Ex-President Calvin Coolidge died January 5th, 1933. 


HERBERT HOOVER 

Herbert Hoover, 31st President of the United States, was 
bom August 10th, 1874. 

In his early years he wrote his name as Herbert Clark 
Hoover, which produced the following numbers: 



CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 167 
HERBERT CLARK HOOVER 
5522524 33122 577652 

25 11 32 

7 2 5 = 14 = 5 

Later on in life he dropped the word Clark in general 
use and became universally known as: 

HERBERT HOOVER 
5522524 577652 

25 32 

7 +5 = 12 = 3 

His birth number is 1 hyphen 4, with the interchangeable 
numbers of 2 hyphen 7, which are all the more dominant 
for the reason that he was born in that part of the Zodiac 
known as the period of the 1-4 positive (see illustration, 
page 31). If his birth number is written out, the importance 
of these numbers will be quickly observed as: 

10th = 1-4 

August =1-4 —8 

1874 (20) = 2-7 

As the opposite Sign of the Zodiac is January, the House 

of Saturn (Positive), the 8 representing this planet should 
be placed in opposition, like the above example. The above 
illustration denotes, at a glance, how dominant the 1-4 of 
the birth number is in this case. 

The name number, which works out to the single digit 
of 3, although the strong number of Jupiter, becomes, in 
this case, a secondary number. 

It would have been better (as I have explained in pre¬ 
vious illustrations) if the name number worked out to a 
similar combination as that of the birth. If it had, it would 
cause a more harmonious vibration and less of a jumble 
in his affairs in later years. 



168 CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 
From the preceding example of the birth number, it 
will be seen that Herbert Hoover is decidedly a number i 
man. Writing on this number (on page 37), I have 
stated: 


... a person born under the Birth number of 1, or any 
of its series, has the underlying principles of being in his or 
her work, creative, inventive, strongly individual, definite in 
his or her views, and in consequence more or less obstinate and 
determined in all they as individuals undertake. This relates to 
all men and women born under the number r, such as on the 
1st, 10th, 19th, or 28th of any month (the addition of all these 
numbers making a 1), but more especially so if they happen to 
be born between the 21st July to the 28th August, which is the 
period of the Zodiac called the "House of the Sun.” . . . 

Number 1 people are ambitious; they dislike restraint, they 
always rise in whatever their profession or occupation may be. 
They desire to become the heads of whatever their businesses 
are, and as departmental chiefs they keep their authority and 
make themselves respected and "looked up to” by their sub¬ 
ordinates. 

This, I think, will be admitted by all impartial observers 
to be a description fitting in well with the career of a man 
who from very ordinary beginnings rose to be President 
of one of the greatest nations of the world. 

Looking back over some of the important phases of 
Herbert Hoover's career, the numbers 1-4 stand out very 
clearly. At the age of 19, which works out to the single 
digit of x, he got his first appointment with the U.S.A. 
Geological Survey. This was the foundation for his being 
called to Australia to take charge of the famous Coolgardie 
gold-mines. From this his company appointed him manager 
of a mine they purchased, called the "Sons of Gwalia,” 
which he built up to become one of the best-paying proper¬ 
ties in the West Australian field. 

From here he went to China, where he discovered the 
world's largest coal deposits underlying the north-eastern 
province. 

During the Boxer revolution he was called on to play 
an important role in organising the defence of Tientsin, 



CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 169 

which, later, brought him into close contact with the repre¬ 
sentatives of European nations who had sent troops to 
protect their nationals. 

In 1900, again a 1-4 number, he was called on to reor¬ 
ganise the great Chinese Company with its 25,000 workers 
at Tong Shan, which, under his management, showed profits 
for the first time in its history. 

It was, however, the 1914-1918 War that gave Herbert 
Hoover his greatest opportunity. On November 13th (a 
4-1 number), 1914, he got his first food ship into Rotterdam, 
and the starving population of Belgium were saved. By 
the end of the war he had raised the sum of $4,000,000 for 
the help of this country alone, and when the books of his 
relief organisation were closed, the auditors certified that 
its sales and purchase account was the huge total of 
$928,000,000. It is significant that they added a statement 
to their report that ‘‘Herbert Hoover had never, himself, 
drawn a cent from these funds for travelling expenses or 
for any other purpose whatever.” 

On March 4th, 1921, he entered President Wilson’s 
Administration in the quite humble position of Secretary 
of Commerce. From this position he rose in 1929 to become 
President of the United States, being elected by a greater 
majority of votes than any other man who had, up to then, 
reached the Presidential chair. 

It is a curious coincidence that President Hoover filled 
this exalted position as the 31st President, a number in 
itself making a 4. 

If readers will turn back to my previous remarks on 
the apparently fatalistic importance of the numbers of 
4’s and 8’s, they will realise what a vital meaning may be 
attached to the fact that President Hoover is a 1-4 man 
with the number 8 in Zodiacal opposition. 

On page 84 one may read that in occult symbolism, 
the number 31 is “ not a fortunate number from a worldly 
or material standpoint.” 

In many ways it must be admitted that the United 
States, under its 31st President, in spite of all his great 
powers of organisation, had not been fortunate "from a 



170 CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 
worldly or material standpoint." Unemployment had risen 
to the highest figure in history; Stock Exchange panics 
had ruined or impoverished millions of people. Standard 
shares like U.S. steel fell to the lowest levels conceivable, 
while universal trade depression sapped the foundations 
of Industry. 

Under its 31st President, the United States was faced by 
a greater problem of Prohibition than ever before. Large 
revenue had been lost, money had been diverted into the 
hands of “gangsters” and outlaws, and crime stalked 
brazenly through the land. 

In the middle of this critical and dangerous situation, 
the 3 xst President conceived the idea of giving a mora¬ 
torium of a year to the debtor-nations of the United States. 

In his generous effort to help broken-down European 
nations, I fear President Hoover’s gift only augmented 
their squabbles and resulted in his own “calcification," as 
has happened to other “Saviours” who have attempted to 
help ungrateful humanity. 

Those bom about the centre of the month of August 
often rise to great positions, but as often suffer equally 
great reverses. History gives us many examples: Napoleon, 
born August 15th; Louis XVI, bom August 23rd; the 
Emperor Francis Joseph of Austria, born August 18th; 
Empress Elizabeth of Austria (assassinated), born August 
18th,; the Czarevitch, born August 9th; President Carnot 
of France (assassinated), born August nth. 

FRANKLIN DELANO ROOSEVELT 

Franklin Delano Roosevelt, the 32nd President of the 
United States, was bom at Hyde Park, New York, at 8.18 
p.m., January 30th, 1882. 

The numbers made by his name are as follows: 
FRANKLIN DELANO ROOSEVELT 
82152315 4 5 3157 277356534 

27 25 42 

9 7 6 = 22 = 4 



CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 171 

It will be noticed that his birth date, January 30th, 
produces for its single digit the powerful number of 3, 
which my readers will remember earlier in this book stands 
for the planet Jupiter. 

The power of the number 3 is, in his case, however, 
afflicted, especially through his early years, by its being 
in the period of the planet Saturn, the 8 negative. 

The qualities of persons born in this Zodiacal Sign of 
Aquarius I have described in my book, When Were You 
Born ? 1 The foundation indications are as follows: 

Persons born in this part of the Zodiac are generally very 
active for the public good and will often give all they have to 
relieve the distress of others. They are good reasoners, and are 
very successful in debate and argument and difficult to convince. 

They are excellent in business and finance when they apply 
their minds to such things, but as a general rule they are more 
successful for others than for themselves. 

They take a great interest in public meetings, large gatherings 
of people and public ceremonies. 

They have a quiet controlling power with their eyes, and so 
subdue others, it takes some sudden call of circumstances to 
make them "make the most of themselves.” 

In matters of health they are inclined to suffer from the nerves 
of the stomach in some peculiar manner that is difficult to relieve 
by ordinary medicine. They are prone to suffer from accidents 
to their teeth, pains in the knees and feet and trouble with the 
middle of the spine. 

Franklin Delano Roosevelt, however, being born under 
the powerful number of the 3, the indicator of strong will, 
determination and ambition, was able to rise above the 
indications given by his Zodiacal Sign, even to conquer 
the spinal meningitis which attacked him in his early 
days. 

In previous pages of this book describing the qualities 
of number 3 persons, I have stated: 

Number 3 people, like the number 1 individuals, are decidedly 
ambitious; they are never satisfied by being in subordinate 

* Published by Herbert Jenkins, Ltd., 3 Duke of York Street, Saint 
James's, London. 



172 CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

positions; their aim is to rise in the world, to have control and 
authority over others. 

Number 3 people often rise to the very highest positions in 
any business, profession or sphere in which they may be found. 
They often excel in positions of authority in the army and navy, 
in government and in life generally; and especially in all posts 
of trust and responsibility, as they are extremely conscientious 
in carrying out their duties. 

This appears to be a very fitting description of the 32nd 
President of the United States. 

When we come to analyse the birth and name number, 
we find, however, they are not in harmony with one another. 

The birth date, January 30th, is a 3, while the name 
number works out to a 22, or the single digit of a 4. 

In dealing with the numbers governing President Harding, 
I called attention to the fact that "when the birth number 
and name number are not in accord, considerable jumble 
or unevenness may be expected in the person’s career.” 
There is, however, a very considerable divergency when one 
examines closely the other numbers associated with these 
two men's lives. 

President Harding was the 29th President. This com¬ 
pound number, as I have stated, "indicates uncertainties, 
treachery and deception of others.” 

President Roosevelt, being the 32nd President on the 
contrary comes, as Head of his Nation, under a fortunate 
compound number, at least as far as his country is concerned. 
In dealing with the number 32, I have stated in previous 
pages of this book (page 84): 

This number has a magical power. It is usually associated 
with combinations of people or nations. It is a fortunate number 
if the person it represents holds to his own judgment or opinions; 
if not, his plans are likely to become wrecked by the stubborn¬ 
ness and stupidity of others. It is a favourable number if it 
appears in connection with future events. 

The compound number of President Roosevelt’s name, 
which works out to a 22, is, however, not so fortunate 
personally. I have stated in earlier pages: 



CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 173 

This number is symbolised by “a good man blinded by the 
folly of others, with a knapsack on his back full of errors.” 

It is a warning number of illusion and delusion, a good person 
who lives in a fool's paradise; a dreamer of dreams who awakens 
only when surrounded by danger. It is also a number of false 
judgment owing to Ike influence of others. 

President Roosevelt ran considerable danger of assassina¬ 
tion in the course of his career. The indications were very 
similar to those given in the life of Abraham Lincoln, whose 
birth number was also a 3 in the Zodiacal Sign of Aquarius 
in the House of Saturn, the negative number 8. 

President Roosevelt had a close call from death, when 
Zangara, the anarchist, fired six shots at him on February 
15th, 1933, at Miami, Florida, and Mayor Cermak of Chicago 
was fatally wounded by his side. 

Note.—T he title of President is not taken into account in 
this system of Numerology, as is that of Kings, Queens, hereditary 
titles, or those given for life. The reason being that the title 
of President is only for a term of years and is therefore a transitory 
one. 



CHAPTER XXXII 


THE BIBLE AND NUMBERS 

I N the opening chapters of this book, I have given illus¬ 
trations of the influence of the number 7 and other 
numbers in connection with the Hebrew race. 

In my more recent book, Cheiro's World Predic¬ 
tions, 1 have gone more fully into an explanation of why 
the Twelve Tribes were called “the chosen people,” and 
why their destiny has affected more races on the earth 
than any other. 

One of the great wonders of the world has been the 
fact that, in spite of privations and persecutions such as 
no other race ever endured, the Jewish people have held 
to their religion as set out in the pages of the volume of 
the Sacred Law, and furthermore, that this volume has 
become the base of all law in every land and clime into which 
it has permeated. 

It is acknowledged to have the greatest influence for 
good of any book that has ever been written. It is con¬ 
sidered the inspired message of God the Creator to the 
Hebrew race in the first instance, and later to all mankind. 

In this book, generally called the Bible, more knowledge 
is at times concealed than is revealed to the ordinary 
reader. 

Like a mine, its purest gold may not be found on the 
surface; its richest veins may only reward those who have 
the patience to toil for years, whose lamp of faith, no 
matter how dim at times, keeps steadily burning—until 
somehow or somewhere, the thread of gold is found that 
leads upwards and onwards even to the Creator Himself. 

It would be rank presumption on my part if I made an 
attempt to elucidate even a fraction of those wonders of 
the Sacred Volume that are revealed to some and concealed 
from others. 


174 



CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 175 

Such an account of these revelations may perhaps be 
better left in the hands of those whose profession or ministry 
gives them more intimate cause to interpret its meanings 
in support of whatever creed or religion they represent. 

For me, it will be sufficient in the short space at my 
disposal if I am able to call attention to one single instance— 
but one of radiant importance—to prove that this wonder¬ 
ful book not only has in its pages the evidence of Divine 
Design in the Creator’s construction of things—but that 
it contains in itself a systematic plan and design that must 
carry with it incontrovertible proof that not only is the 
Sacred Volume inspired, but that it has within itself the 
proofs of its inspiration, so that all mankind might believe 
in its message. 

It has been handed down to us that the first books of the 
Bible were written or compiled by one of the greatest men 
of all time, a man called Moses. 

Let us consider for a moment who this man was and what 
his claims are for universal respect and admiration. Briefly, 
he was bom of the priestly house of Levi. He was called 
Moses because Pharaoh’s daughter saved him from the 
waters of the Nile. He was adopted by her and became her 
son. 

In this position, as the child of the great Pharaoh's 
daughter, he received the highest education that was 
possible in that wonderful land of Egypt. The Sacred Book 
tells us " he was versed in all the wisdom of the Egyptians.” 
History tells us that he became a Master of Astrology, that 
he erected a great observatory in the Temple of the Sun 
at Heliopolis. 

When his supposed mother became Queen of Egypt, 
Moses became commander-in-chief of her army; as such 
he conquered the Ethiopians and relieved Egypt from danger 
of invasion. 

In this moment of triumph the Queen died, a Pharaoh 
came to the throne who ‘‘knew not Moses,” and the Bible 
says, ‘‘he went out unto his brethren and looked on their 
burdens." The ‘‘call of the blood" had come; he knew 
he was a Hebrew, the son of the priestly tribe of Levi; 



176 CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

"he saw an Egyptian smiting one of his brethren" 1 ; he 

slew the Egyptian and took refuge in the land of Midian. 

Moses was now eighty years of age, 2 a man of experience, 
a man accustomed to responsibility and power, a man of 
great learning, "versed in all the wisdom of the Egyptians.” 
Such was the man the Lord had chosen for the delivery 
of His people. 

I will pass over the message from "the burning bush,” 
that command that has passed down through the ages: 
"I AM that I AM.” 

I must leave to the imagination of my readers the 
humbling of Pharaoh by the ten plagues, the passover 
night, the outward march of that multitude of men, women, 
and herds of cattle. No one but Moses, who had been a 
commander-in-chief, could have organised such a march. 

What a milestone in history—the first passover of the 
Hebrews as a nation. What a meaning it must have had 
for a people in slavery. 

The end of four hundred and thirty years of bondage to 
the Egyptians, "that night of the Lord to be observed of 
all the children of Israel in their generation.” 3 

The first great passover of the Hebrews took place at 
the full moon after the Spring Equinox in the first month 
of the Hebraic year, the month which is called Abib. 

If one looks at an atlas containing the old Hebrew names, 
it is easy to see that Moses skilfully led this great multitude 
of people towards the most fordable part of the Red Sea 
at the northern end of the Gulf of Suez, at a place called 
Pi-hahiroth, as stated in the Bible. 4 

Moses was well acquainted with this part of the country, 
having passed this way on his flight to Midian and his 
return to Egypt. He had observed the influx of the tides, 
and by his astrological calculations he knew that the south¬ 
eastern monsoon would arrive at a certain date to aid his 
plans. This is the east wind mentioned in the English ver¬ 
sion of the Bible; in the Septuagint, it is called a strong 
southern wind; but in both the poetical description is the 

1 Exodus ii. II. » Exodus xii. 42. 

• Ibid., vii. 7. * Ibid., xiv. 2. 



CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 177 
same, “and the Lord caused the sea to go back by a strong 
east wind all that night and made the sea dry land and the 
waters were divided’’ 1 . . . “and the children of Israel 
walked upon dry land in the midst of the sea.’’ 

After this came that mysterious forty years of wandering 
in the desert which was planned and designed to purge 
the Israelites from the false teachings they had imbibed 
during their four hundred years of residence among the 
religions of Egypt. 

If one again looks at any Old Testament map, one cannot 
help but remark how short the distance would have been had 
Moses led his people directly across to Palestine. Instead 
they were made to traverse the whole peninsula of Sinai 
before they were allowed to turn their faces toward the 
“Promised Land.’’ 

During that forty years of wandering a generation had 
passed away. Wisely and designedly the older race win 
had been contaminated by their long sojourn in Egypt had 
been "gathered to their fathers.” Their place had been 
taken by the fresh blood of their sons and daughters, a 
younger generation more fitted to understand the teaching? 
of the Great Law Giver—more fitted as “a chosen race,” 
later on to hand down to posterity the pages of that Sacred 
Volume which was destined to illuminate and influence all 
races of mankind as well as their own. 

It is this law of mysterious and wonderful Design that 
it is my privilege to draw attention to. It is more exem¬ 
plified in the happenings and history of the Hebrew people 
than any other. If this race had been created for no other 
purpose than this, their sufferings and privations have not 
been in vain. 

If I now proceed to demonstrate that the Divine Design 
I have so often alluded to may be found even in the position 
of chapters and verses in the Sacred Volume, I shall be 
doing nothing more than adding another proof to the many, 
that this inspired book is something so wonderful that it 
compels the veriest sceptic to believe in its Divine 
origin. 


1 Exodus xiv. ai. 



178 CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

In those far-off ages when Moses collected and put 
together the records of God’s dealings with the children of 
Israel, the volume of the Sacred Law was not divided into 
chapters and verses. 

Later still, David, the man who was specially chosen by 
God to be King of the Israelites, in writing the Psalms, 
could not by any natural means have surmised that when 
the Bible, some two thousand years after his death, came to 
be. divided into chapters, the 119th Psalm would become 
the longest chapter of the entire Book, especially as scarcely 
one half of the Sacred Volume existed in his time. 

This Psalm consists of 176 verses, every one of which 
directly or indirectly calls attention to tlie precepts laid 
down in the entire book. 

The Psalm itself is, by some mysterious law of calculation, 
divided into 22 sections, the exact number of the letters that 
compose the Hebrew alphabet. Each section is subdivided 
into 8 verses, each verse being an iambic tetrameter, namely 
16 syllables alternately short and long. 1 

Still more extraordinary is the fact that every one of the 
8 verses of the first section begins with the first letter of 
the Hebrew alphabet: Aleph. 

The 8 verses of the second section begin with the second 
letter of the Hebrew alphabet: Beth. 

The 8 verses of the third section begin with the third 
letter of the alphabet: Gimcl. 

This extraordinary precision continuing until all the 22 
letters of the Hebrew alphabet are employed. 

When this wonderful chapter thousands of years later 
came to be translated into, other languages, it was found 
that no other language could fit in with this rule. There¬ 
fore the Hebrew letters were set out simply as titles at the 
‘ iead of each of the eight sections, as may be seen if anyone 
looks up the 119th Psalm. 

In the millions and millions of books that have been 
printed, there is not one example in the world of such an 
acrostic having ever been made, or of such an attempt 
having been thought of to call attention to the longest 
1 1 am »ptnkin$, of course, of the Hebrew original version. 



CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 179 

chapter of any work, especially when one considers that 
every verse of this chapter calls direct notice in one form 
or another to the good to be derived from following the 
precepts laid down in the volume of the Sabred Law. 

Further, every verse alludes in some part of it to the 
Divine influence underlying the whole. 

Example: The first verse contains the words "the law 
of the Lord.” 

2nd verse, "His testimonies.” 

3rd verse, "His ways.” 

4th verse, "Thy precepts.” 

5th verse, "Thy statutes.” 

6th verse, "Thy commandments.” 

7th verse, "Thy righteous judgments.” 

8th verse, "Thy statutes,” 
and so on through the entire 22 sections. 

The mystic number of 12 appears in the root words 
employed, which are Statutes, Ordinances, Faithfulness, 
Surety, Law, Name, Word, Precepts, Ways, Judgments, 
Testimonies, Commandments, and at least one of these 
12 words are unerringly found in each of the 176 verses. 

In the English version the two longest words employed 
are representative of the Bible, namely "Thy command¬ 
ments" and "Thy testimonies.” In their uses in this Psalm 
they present a strange coincidence with the 22 sections of 
the Psalm and the 22 letters of the original Hebrew alphabet. 
The word “commandments" is employed either in the 
singular or in the plural exactly 22 times, while “testi¬ 
monies” is used 22 times in the plural and once in the 
singular at the end of the first half of the Psalm, namely 
the end of the 88th verse, which number is itself a multiple 
of 22. 

To sum up, then, rny observations on this, the most 
extraordinary example of design in literature written or 
printed that has ever been known. One cannot believe 
that such a thing could happen by chance; equally one 
cannot believe that some mortal, no matter how gifted, 
could have created a psalm in the form of an acrostic 
unmatched in the literature of the world, past or present ' 



180 CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

still more so, that this psalm should be designed to be the 

longest chapter in a book not then completed. 

And yet I have not exhausted all the features that call 
attention to this wonderful example of design. 

It may not have been noticed before, by the many people 
who have read the Bible through from cover to cover, that 
both the shortest and the longest chapters of this wonderful 
book are placed in close proximity to each other, the shortest 
being the 117th and the longest the 119th Psalm. Now the 
one intermediary chapter between the shortest and the 
longest, the 118th, presents in itself such a number of 
remarkable coincidences that one is forced to the con¬ 
clusion that these three psalms were purposely planned to 
come together for a definite reason—that reason evidently 
being that the relation of such coincidences would sooner 
or later strike some searcher of truth, as an illustration of 
Divine Design and consequently proof of the Divine Inspira¬ 
tion that guided not only the writer of the Psalms, but 
thousands of years later the translators of this book into other 
languages. 

The 118th Psalm, occupying as it does the remarkable 
position of being between the shortest and longest chapters 
of the Bible, actually contains the middle or cenltal verse oj 
the entire Bible. This, the middle verse of the Sacred Book 
is the 8th verse of the 118th Psalm. 1 

Its words are significant in their meaning—they are an 
epitome of the great truth taught all through the preceding 
chapters or those that follow: "It is better to trust in the 
Lord than to put confidence in man.” 

Further, if one writes down in figures Psalm 118, verse 8, 
and puts these numbers side by side, they become 1188, 
which is the exact number of chapters in the Bible, besides the 
one that contains the remarkable verse above quoted and 
which, as I called attention to before, is the middle verse 
of the entire book. 


1 The actual form and division of the Bible is the work of different minds, 
widely separated by time, by countries, and by training. There can 
therefore be no question of collusion in the carrying out of the evident 
design that underlie® the construction of the Bible. 




CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS x8i 

Next to this 118th Psalm, the 117th stands out as the 
shortest chapter of the Bible, and not only is this a curious 
fact, but it is still doubly so, by being at the same time 
the central chapter of the Book, having exactly as many 
chapters before it as after it. 

The most accurate way of finding out if the 117th Psalm 
is the central chapter of the Bible is to refer to the table 
usually printed in the beginning of the Authorised Version. 
This table contains six columns or 39 books of the Old 
Testament and 27 books of the New. By adding together 
the numbers of chapters given by those six volumes we 
get the number 1189, the total number of the chapters in 
the Bible, the middle one must therefore be the 595th, as 
there cannot be anything else than 594 chapters before it 
and 594 following it. 

The very number of 595, which is the number of the 
117th Psalm, calculated as a chapter of the Bible, conveys 
in itself the idea of perfect symmetry, namely it can be 
read the same whether from left to right, or vice versa; it 
represents in itself the principle of perfect equilibrium which 
consists of equal disposition of the parts on both sides of a 
centre. 

This, the shortest chapter in the Bible and the central 
one of the entire Book, has a striking significance of its own: 

O praise the Lord all ye nations: praise Him all ye people. 
For His merciful kindness is great towards us: and the truth of 
the Lord enduretli for ever. 

One should not regard the extraordinary examples I 
have set out in these pages as isolated cases of mere coin¬ 
cidence, for when taken together, as they were evidently 
intended to be, they give the key to the construction of 
the Bible itself as a marvellous example of Divine inspira¬ 
tion. They tend to show that these three Psalms must 
have been written with a plan of forming these coincidences 
for some given purpose, and that the division and numera¬ 
tion of the entire Bible, so perfect in every way, was pre¬ 
arranged before even the greater part of it had been written 
by those who lived in later ages. 



182 CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

Surely this could only have been done by that Supreme 
Intelligence who so calculated and placed the millions of 
worlds revolving through space that they keep their 
appointed pathway through eternity to the smallest fraction 
of time. 

In conclusion, in giving these examples of one of the 
many wonders of the Bible, I may have been permitted, in 
no matter how small a way, to stimulate interest in the 
Sacred Book itself. 

To the many who have read it from cover to cover with¬ 
out noticing the mysterious examples it has been my privi¬ 
lege to call attention to, I can only hope that my words 
may encourage them to study it more deeply and find still 
greater truths for themselves. 

While to those others—those of “little faith’’—those 
who are longing to believe, but must have a “sign”—to 
these, I most humbly hope that the illustrations for which 
I have given them chapter and verse may be “the sign” 
for which they have been seeking—and in their new-found 
faith in the Divine Purpose underlying all things they may 
realise that form, number, and design are the expressions 
of that Infinite Mind “who works in a mysterious way, 
God’s wonders to perform.” 



CHAPTER XXXIII 


CONCLUSION 

I TRUST my readers who have followed my theories 
through this book have grasped the fundamental fact 
underlying these pages, that the knowledge I have 
endeavoured to give to the public is of a practical nature 
with the decided object of helping my fellow men to make 
the best of themselves and render their lives as successful 
as possible. 

Up to now occultism has been associated with the idea 
that its students must belong to the domain of dreamers 
of dreams, or those who live in some world of their own. 
In consequence of this idea the average " man in the street” 
has put aside such studies as not b- : ng useful, practical, 
or belonging to the money-making side of life. 

It has also been drummed into his ears that all such 
studies bordered on witchcraft and were in some way or 
the other associated with the Devil. 

Being brought up to go to church every Sunday and 
hearing every time he went that he was "a miserable sinner,” 
doomed to punishment and torment both in this life and 
the world to come, he in the end believed that he was 
"a miserable sinner,” and so dared not seek for any know¬ 
ledge that might enable him to shake off the chains of 
conventionality and custom that ground him down and 
kept him in mental and intellectual slavery. 

He had perhaps no means of knowing that some of the 
greatest kings of the world owed their success and wealth 
to advice given by their Astrologers, or that the Egyptian 
Magicians had greater power than either priest or potentate. 
He had perhaps never read that the great Queen Elizabeth 
consulted her astrologer and palmist, Dr. John Dee, on all 
important matters of State, and that the destiny of England 
had been guided from time to time by those students of 
occultism whom he had been taught to believe were but 

183 



184 CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 

fit companions for black cats, and were workers of the 

Devil. 

He had perhaps never read of that great English astrologer, 
William Lily, who had predicted the Fire of London fifteen 
years before it took place, or that the House of Commons 
iiad called him before that great assembly believing that, 
as he had predicted the calamity with such accuracy, he 
could explain to them what, had caused such a catastrophe. 

Further, his English History had never told him that 
Charles I had given the first thousand pounds his govern¬ 
ment sent him to Hampton Court to the same Lilly, the 
astrologer, asking him to predict his fate, and that had the 
King taken the warnings given to him by Astrology he 
might never have lost his head and descended to posterity 
as Charles the Martyr. 

Again, it is probable he never knew that Queen Anne 
maintained an astrologer upon the roll of the Privy Purse, 
and that she had such faith in the celebrated Von Galgebrok 
that she asked him to predict the year of her death. This 
lie did with perfect accuracy three years before the event, 
which took place on the ist August, 1714. 

***** 

Life is but the child of Mystery—we know not its origin— 
we know not its end. We see “as in a glass darkly” the 
threads of Destiny weaving the known and the unknown— 
and we wonder why. 

We feel th're is Design in all things—but it is only in 
looking back on the past that the wonders of “the pattern" 
become manifest. 

We are indeed “of little faith,” we children of men. 
We forget that we were made "in the image and likeness 
of God,” and, in the forgetting, we have sold our birthright 
for “the mess of pottage” of man-made beliefs. 

We do not dare to think for ourselves, lor our “teachers” 
alone have wisdom ? But alas! they locked the doors of 
knowledge, and the keys have rusted for want of use. 

Behind all—the God of Patience—the God of Eternity— 
waits. 



CHEIRO'S BOOK OF NUMBERS 185 

Slowly the ages pass: "A thousand years are but a day.” 
Nations rise and fall. Teachers come and go. Time weaves 
Destiny into Design until in the end Perfection shines 
through the warp and weft and the God-thought underlying 
all becomes manifest. 

If, then, one of the so-called “occult studies,” such as 1 
have tried to explain, has helped, in no matter how small 
a degree, to call attention to those hidden laws of life that 
illustrate the Divine Design, then when “the Call” comes 
—I will go my way, content that the years of study I have 
given to this work were not wasted and were not in vain. 



CHEIRO: HIS LIFE AND WORK 


C HEIRO, greatest and most successful seer of modem 
times, retired from public life after forty years of 
continuous occult research work. He died shortly 
afterwards. 

He believed completely in the findings from his years of 
study of the occult sciences. He believed, for instance, that 
a reasoned interpretation of the lines of the hand could 
produce a full and accurate assessment of character, health, 
life and intellect. He proved this belief by thousands of 
successful readings of the hands of people in all walks of 
life. But more than this, he believed that it was an invaluable 
advantage to all people—man or woman, king or peasant— 
to know their faults and weaknesses, to recognise where 
their strength lay and along which paths lay the road to 
true fulfilment. He earnestly desired to spread this learning 
which he himself had so painstakingly acquired. 

For years he toured the cities of the world lecturing, 
teaching and encouraging. His audiences were vast, and 
wherever he went he was enthusiastically acclaimed. But 
it was not enough; he knew that for every one who crowded 
the lecture halls a thousand went in ignorance of his teach¬ 
ings. Striving ever for the wider audience, he sat down and 
wrote the first of those books which have since found their 
way into every part of the civilised globe. He wrote ex¬ 
haustively and passionately (as he did all things), yet with 
such clarity that anyone of ordinary intelligence could follow 
and understand easily the import of his words. 

Nowhere was this lucidity more evident than in his books 
on palmistry. Even a superficial acquaintance of these works 
is sufficient to kindle an immediate interest in the lines of 
the hand and to convey to the reader enlightening informa¬ 
tion about his own past and present, and the probable 
indications of his future. Closer study inevitably brings 
fuller understanding and greater accuracy, and with the 
deepening of the interest the casually enquiring layman 

186 



188 CHEIRO’S BOOK OF NUMBERS 
The terms of this remarkable prediction made by Cheiro 
at the War Office were that Kitchener would meet his death 
in his sixty-sixth year and that it would not be an end that 
a soldier might, normally expect. His death would be caused 
by water, probably by storm or disaster at sea, with the 
attendant chance of capture by an enemy and exile from 
which he would never recover. 

When this prediction was made the great Kitchener was 
practically unknown. He gave Cheiro a signed impression 
of his hand which had, strangely enough, the Seal of the 
War Office imprinted on it. Lord Kitchener never forgot 
Cheiro’s words. During the World War I, while at the 
Front, he mentioned it to General de Ballincourt and 
members of his staff. 

The tragic sinking of the battleship Hampshire, in Lord 
Kitchener’s sixty-sixth year, and the chance that the great 
soldier might have been captured by an enemy submarine, 
bore out the prediction to the letter. It was a remarkable 
example of the accuracy of his system. 

A similar prediction was made to the celebrated journalist, 
W. T. Stead, and with equal exactness, before he went to 
his death in the ill-fated Titanic. 

Cheiro became world-famous through the perfection to 
which he brought this study of the hand. In London. Paris. 
New York, Boston, Chicago, in Petrograd, Rome, and all 
the principal cities of the world, he demonstrated that the 
lines of the hand are a veritable chart of life. His success 
was acclaimed by all classes, and in his Visitors’ Book were 
inscribed autographed testimonies without parallel. 

In Cheiro’s works will be found clearly drawn diagrams 
of the various lines that seem so bewildering when glanced 
at in ignorance of their real meaning. The author, however, 
illuminates the whole subject lucidly and in such a manner 
that the reader can learn to "Know himself” with quite 
uncanny accuracy. 

Cheiro’s works place in concise form the knowledge of 
a lifetime’s study and experience. With the passing of the 
author there can be no other single source offering such 
inestimable teachings. 



Cheiro’s Language Of 
The Hand 


This new and revised edition of Cheiro's Language of the 
If and, which lias long been accepted as the classic of palmistry, 
will bo very widely welcomed. It is a complete and practical 
work which, in addition to a large number of explanatory 
illustrations, contains many photogravure impressions of the 
hands of outstanding celebrities. It is a most fascinating 
volume. 

For nearly thirty years Cheiro stood alone among the world’s 
seers. He did not coniine himself to any one branch of occult 
study. Numerology and the stars were each taken into account, 
but principally it was the lines of the hand that were respon¬ 
sible for his uncanny accuracy. His knowledge of palmistry 
was unequalled, and the knowledge he gained from many years 
of careful study and experience is secure for all time in the 
simply written, deeply interesting books which bear his name. 


With 15 Mates and 23 Line Illustrations 



You And Your Star 

Bv Cheiro. 

This is Zodiacal Astrology for all combined with Numer 
ology. It is a simplified system by which anybody can find 
from their birth-date the important days and years of their life, 
the most favourable persons for marriage, for unions and 
partnerships, their lucky gems, numbers and colours, marriage 
and health possibilities; in short, discover what is in store for 
them. No calculations are necessary, as the forecast for every day 
of every year is given. 

Cheiro’s Palmistry For All 

With HO 111 uitrations. 

A practical and comprehensive book on the system practised 
during the author's many years of professional experience. 
By the greatest expert in Cheiromancy with a world-wide 
reputation. 

Cheiro’s Guide To The Hand 

With '.’8 Illustrations. 

In this volume Cheiro gives instructions in the art of hand, 
reading with such clearness that anyone can speedily become 
proficient. An ideal guide for the student containing recent, 
up-to-date information. 

Cheiro’s When Were You Born? 

A book which sets forth clearly the influence of the zodiac 
on human life. Shows the affinity of one person to another. 
Describes the character of the marriage or business partner- 
Of interest to everyone. 



Practical Astro-Numerology 

By Dr. V. G, Rele. (With Tima-metre) 

Willi the help of this book and the Tima-metre it contains, 
anybody can predict ihe chances of success or failure of their 
undertakings. No intricate mathematical calculations arc 
required. 

The author has devised the Tima-metre with the help of 
which even the uninitiated can predict the chances of success 
or failure of his undertakings. It will also be useful to investors 
and speculators and those interested in horse-racing und games 
of chance, 

Numerology In A Nutshell 

By Rasajo. 

This book is a very good guide to personal characteristics, 
ihe most suitable jobs or profession, lucky days and years and 
dates on which important matters should be undertaken. The 
system is very easy to follow and needs no intricate mathemati¬ 
cal calculations- 

Horary Numerology Of The Turf 

By Rasajo. (With Readymade Chart*) 

The system involves no elaborate calculations or a reference 
to the Ephemeris It is universal and can be used in any part 
of the world. To make things even simpler for the owner of 
ihe book the author has given many ready-made charts for 
immediate reference, based on t 1 e ruling planets. 

A very important feature, especially for those in other 
countries, is the last part of the book, devoted to Dog Racing. 



BOOKS ON 

ASTROLOGY, NUMEROLOGY PALMISTRY, ETC. 


ASTROLOGY FOR ALL 
By Alan Leo 

PRAGTICAL ASTROLOGY 
Ity Alan Ll-o 

EVERYDAY ASTROLOGY 
Practical Guide to Indian and Western Astrology 
Cy V. A. K. Ayer Illustrated 

WHAT THE STARS FORETELL 
lly Jupiter 

DIRECTIONAL ASIROLOGY OF THE HINDUS 
As Propounded in Vimshottari Dasa 
Ry Dr. V. G. Rele With Diagrams and Disc Calculator 

PRACTICAL ASTRO NUMEROLOGY 
A Planetary Guide lor all Purposes 
By Dr. V. G. Rele With Tima-melre 

NUMEROLOGY IN A NUTSHELL 
By Rasa jo 

HORARY NUMEROLOGY OF THE TURF 
lly Rasajo 

THE STUDY OF PALMISTRY 

By Cotntc C. de Saint-Germain Over 1350 Illustrations 

HAST SAMUDRIKA SHASTRA 
The Science of Indian Palmistry 

By K. G. Sen to Illustrations 

SECRETS OF HAND READING 
By Noel Jaquin 3f Illustrations 

PALMISTRY FOR PLEASURE AND PROFIT 

How the Hand is Read in India and the West 
By V. A. K. Ayer Illustrations 

I I.M-UI.-K AIT 

The Laws of Scientific Hand Reading 
By Gaafar, Egyptian Palmist Over300 Illustrations 

SCIENTIFIC RACING UP-TO-DATE 
By H. Trevor 

THE ORIENTAL MYSTIC BOOK OF FORTUNE TELLING 
By Plutonius 7; Illustrations 

Z A DRILL'S BOOK OF DREAMS AND FORTUNE TELLING 
THE NUMBERS BOOK 
By Scpharial 

THE COMPLETE GUIDE TO PALMISTRY 

By Psychos Illustrated 

ASTROLOGY AND HUMAN SEX LIFE 
By Vivian E. Robson 

THE MANUAL OF ASTROLOGY 
By Scpharial With Tables 

THE KABALA OF NUMBERS 
By Scpharial 




TARA PORI A ALA'S ROOKS ON 

ASTROLOGY, NUMEROLOGY & PALMISTRY 


YOU AM) YOUK STAR by ‘Cheiro’, Count Louis Haniun 

DIRECI IONAI. ASTKOI OGY OF THE HINDUS by V. G. Krle 


WHAT THE STARS FORETELL 
ASTROLOGY FOR ALL 
PRACTICAL ASTROLOGY 
WHEN WERE YOU RORN ? 

THE MANUAL OF ASTROLOGY 
ASTROLOGY AND HUMAN SEX LIFE 
HINDU PREDICTIVE ASTROLOGY 


by Jupiter 
by Alan Leo 
by Alan Leo 
by Cheiro 
by Sepharial 
by Vivian E. Robson 
by Pandit G. K.. Ojha 


THE NUMBERS BOOK: THE SCIENCE OF NUMEROLOGY by Sepharial 


THE KAUALA OF NUMBERS 

BOOK OF NUMBERS 

NUMEROLOGY IN A NUTSHELL 

PRACTICAL ASTRO NUMEROLOGY 

HORARY NUMEROLOGY OF THE TURF 

THE COMPLETE GUIDE TO PALMISTRY 

LAWS OF SCIENTIFIC HAND READING 

ILM-IJL-KAFF 

SARIRAKA SASTRA 

GUIDE TO THE HAND 

PALMISTRY I OR ALL 

LANGUAGE OF THE HAND 

PALMASTRA 

THE STUDY OF PALMISTRY 
HAST SAMUURIKA SHASTRA 
SECRETS OF HAND READING 
PALMISTRY FOR PLEASURE AND I*KO! I I 
PRACTICAL PALMISTRY 


by Sepharial 
by Cheiro 
by Rasajo 
by V. G. Reie 
by Rasajo 
by Psychos 
by W. G. Benhan 
by M. M Gaafar 
by V. A. K. Ayer 
by Cheiro 
by Cheiro 
by Cheiro 
by M. M. Gaalar 
by Comte C. de Saint-Germain 
by K. C. Sen 


by Noel Jffl— 
by V. A. K. 


by Noel J 

ZADKIEL’S BOOK OF DREAMS & FORTUNE TELLING 
THE ORIENTAL MYSTIC BOOK OF FORTUNE TELLING by Plu 




D. B. TARAPOREVALA SONS & COMPANY PRIVATE LTD. 

2 to DR DADABHAI NAOROjl ROAD, BOMBAY 






