

M A I T H E W OLIVER CO O D W I N 

NUMEROLOGY 


THE COMPLETE GUIDE 
















NUMEROLOGY 
The Complete Guide 

VOLUME ONE 







NUMEROLOGY 
The Complete Guide 

VOLUME ONE 

THE PERSONALITY 
READING 

Matthew Oliver Goodwin 


NEWCASTLE PUBLISHING COMPANY, INC. • NORTH HOLLYWOOD, CALIFORNIA • 1981 


For additional information on readings and classes, write: 

Matthew Goodwin 
P.O. Box 2204 
Culver City, CA 90231 


Copyright © 1981 

by Matthew Oliver Goodwin 

All rights reserved 

Vol 1: ISBN 0-87877-053-4 

Vol 2: ISBN 0-87877-054-2 

2 Vol Set: ISBN 0-87877-999-X 

A NEWCASTLE BOOK 
First printing October 1981 
6 7 8 9 10 

Printed in the United States of America 

Design: Riley K. Smith 
Typography: Freedmen’s Organization 


Printed by Delta Lithograph • Van Nuys, CA 




I 



6 

TO ARLENE t 







ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 

I would like to acknowledge the many people who helped. 


Thanks— 

to the special friend (who prefers to remain anonymous) 
who first introduced me to numerology, 

to Naomi Weisman, who shared her insights, 
to Dana Holliday, who contributed her unique aware¬ 
nesses, 

to Kelley Jeane Younger, for helping to make this project 
a reality and for consulting on the book, 
to Anne Brenden Monkarsh, for her gracious special help, 
to Pam Cisneros, who typed so much of the mountain of 
manuscript, 

to Judy Yerman, whose contribution when needed was so 
important, 

to Mary Leipziger, who contributed the back-cover pho¬ 
tograph (and the pastries to help my occasionally lagging 
spirit). ' 


Thanks to those whose encouragement for my special project 
was so meaningful: 

Ida Goodwin, Jean Brill, Miriam Miller, Harvey Yerman, 
Elliot Brill, Susan Brill, Bill Brill, Helen Brill, Antonino 
Bruno, Lenore Goldman, Bernie Weisman, Audrey Sim¬ 
mons, Neil Perlmutter, Boris Marks, ______ _______, 
Gerta Farber. 

And, of course, thanks to Josh Goodwin for his support, to 
Lisa Goodwin for her encouragement from around the world, 
to Adam Chess for his concern—and especially to Arlene 
Goodwin who was always there to listen, discuss and lend 
loving sustenance. 


Los Angeles, 1981 









CONTENTS 


tx 


CONTENTS 


VOLUME 1 

• ACKNOWLEDGMENTS __ vii 

PART I: INTRODUCTION 

• CHAPTER 1: 

A BEGINNING _ 3 

Definition of ntimerology 3 

How is the numerology information derived? 3 

Why does numerology work? 3 

A brief history 4 

The different parts of this book 4 

• CHAPTER 2: 

THE BASICS _ 7 

The basic numbers: the nine single digits and the 
two master numbers 7 
The simple symbolism of the basic numbers 7 
The relation of the numbers to each other 12 
Special groups of basic numbers 13 
The positive and negative energy of each number 
group 13 

A discussion of chart 1: the numbers—basics 14 
The basic data: the birthdate and the 
birthname 15 ' 

Different alphabets 15 

Making adjustments for special names 15 






CONTENTS 


The basic operation: reducing numbers by 
addition 16 

The number value of letters 18 

PART II: CHARACTER DELINEATION—THE CORE 

The core: the major determinant in the 
delineation 21 

• CHAPTER 3: 

THE FIRST ELEMENT OF THE 

CORE: THE LIFE PATH,_ 23 

Definition: the major lesson to be learned in this 
life 23 

The calculation 24 
Examples of the calculation 25 
A discussion of chart 2: the life path 26 
An outline of the sample reading of the Life 
Path 28 

The Life Paths of some famous people 29 

• CHAPTER 4: 

THE SECOND ELEMENT OF THE 

CORE: THE EXPRESSION_ 31 

Definition: a person’s potential natural abilities 31 
The calculation 32 
Examples of the calculation 33 
A discussion of chart 3: the expression 33 
An outline of a sample reading of the 
Expression 34 


• CHAPTER 5: 

THE THIRD ELEMENT OF THE 

CORE: THE SOUL URGE _ 37 

Definition: a person’s inner motivation 37 
The calculation 38 
Examples of the calculation 38 
A discussion of chart 4: the soul urge 39 
An outline of a sample reading of the Soul 
Urge 40 

• CHAPTER 6: 

THE FOURTH ELEMENT OF THE 

CORE: THE BIRTHDAY_ 41 





CONTENTS 


xi 


Definition: a sub-lesson to be learned in this 
life 41 

The relation of the Birthday to the Life Path 41 
The calculation 41 

A discussion of chart 5: the birthday 41 
Relative importance of the Birthday 43 
An outline of a sample reading of the Birthday 43 

• CHAPTER 7: 

SYNTHESIS OF THE CORE 

ELEMENTS _ 45 

The four simple principles involved in synthesizing 
the core 45 

The relative power of the core elements 45 
How the core elements modify each other 47 
Finding the harmony or discord among the 
core elements 47 

A discussion of chart 6: the aspects 49 
Finding the effectiveness of the combined 
elements 50 

The Table of Effectiveness 51 
The 22 steps in core synthesis 56 
A complete step-by-step core delineation of a 
fictitious subject, Harlan William Allen 57 
A summary of the core synthesis 71 
The potential energies found in a character 
delineation 72 

A look at Abraham Lincoln’s numerology 
delineation 73 

A look at Charles Darwin’s numerology 
delineation 73 

The delineation: reading for the entire life or for 
any specific time period in the life 74 
The effect of the free will and environment 75 
The ambiguity in delineations 75 
Expressing the potentials positively 76 

• CHAPTER 8: 

CORE SYNTHESIS WITH MASTER 

NUMBER ELEMENTS_:_ 77 

Master numbers: the heightened level of awareness 
and the reduced level 77 
The Birthday with a master number 78 
The Life Path, Expression or Soul Urge with a 
master number 78 






xii 


CONTENTS 


A partial step-by-step core delineation with a 
master number element: a delineation for 
Grandma Moses 79 

A special case: The Birthday and one additional 
element with master numbers 85 
Another special case: Two elements other than the 
Birthday with master numbers 86 


• CHAPTER 9: 

CORE SYNTHESIS WITH REPEATED 

NUMBER ELEMENTS_ 87 

The problem when the core has two elements with 
the same number 88 

Famous people with doubled core elements 90 

The effect of the age with doubled core 
elements 92 

A partial step-by-step core delineation with doubled 
elements: Hilde Agatha Parsons, a fictitious 
subject 93 

A special case: The Birthday and the Life Path of 
the same number 101 

A special case: The Birthday and the Expression 
of the same number 101 

A special case: The Birthday and the Soul Urge 
of the same number 102 

Another special case: master numbers as doubled 
core elements 102 

Another special case: tripled core elements 103 

And, finally, quadrupled core elements 103 


PART III: CHARACTER DELINEATION—THE MODIFIERS 

The relation of the modifiers to the core 107 
• CHAPTER 10: 

USING THE MODIFIERS _ 109 

Definition: a modifier is any element used in a 
character delineation which is not one of the core 
elements 109 

Definition: modifer number and modifier 
energy 109 

How to group the energies by modifier 
number 110 

The directing modifiers 112 




CONTENTS 


xiii 


The calculation sheet 113 
The organization sheet 115 
Hal Allen, our fictitious subject, from Chapter 7, 
and his organization sheet 116 
Full-size blank organization sheet for copying 119 

• CHAPTER 11: 

SIGNIFICANT DIFFICULTIES: 

THE KARMIC DEBTS_ 121 

Definition: a significant difficulty encountered in 
this life as payment for the misapplication of 
energies in a past life 121 
The calculation 121 

A discussion of chart 7: the karmic debt 121 
Commentary 122 

A portion of a delineation expressing the Karmic 
Debt 123 

The significance of the number of 
Karmic Debts 125 
Hal Allen’s organization sheet 126 
Hal Allen’s delineation 126 

• CHAPTER 12: 

STRONG POSITIVE AND NEGATIVE 
CHARACTERISTICS: 

THE INTENSITY TABLE 
THE KARMIC LESSONS, 

THE INTENSITY POINTS, 

THE PRIME INTENSIFIER _ 129 

Definitions and calculations 129 
Definition: The Intensity Table—a table derived 
from the letters in the name indicating 
characteristics which are of above average or 
below average intensity 129 
Definition: A Karmic Lesson—a modifier indicating 
potential weaknesses, difficulties or obstacles 
because the modifier energy hasn’t been 
experienced in past lives 130 
Definition: an Intensity Point—a modifier 
indicating characteristics of above average or 
below average intensity 130 
Defintion: the Prime Intensifier—the Intensity 
Point appearing in the largest quantity, 
indicating strong and obvious characteristics 130 
A discussion of chart 8: the intensity table 131 
Commentary: The Intensity Points 132 




xiv 


CONTENTS 


Commentary: The Prime Intensifier 133 
Commentary: The Karmic Lessons 133 
Commentary: The Modified Karmic Lessons 134 
Entering the modifiers derived from the Intensity 
Table on the organization sheet 134 
Expressing the Intensity Table modifiers in a 
delineation 136 

A special case: no Karmic Lessons 136 
A special case: four or more Karmic Lessons 136 
A special case: a 1, 5 or 9 Karmic Lesson 136 
The rarity of the 7 in the Intensity Table 137 
Hal Allen’s calculation 138 

Hal Allen’s organization sheet and delineation 139 

• CHAPTER 13: 

BEGINNING OBSTACLES: 

THE SUB-ELEMENTS OF THE CORE _____ 143 

Definition 143 
Example 143 

Sub-element and core element with the same 
number 144 

Two sub-elements with the same number 145 
Hal Allen’s organization sheet and delineation 146 

• CHAPTER 14: 

ANOTHER BEGINNING OBSTACLE: 

THE CHALLENGE _ 149 

Definition: an obstacle encountered in the early 
years of life, at least, due to the emphasis placed 
on the negative extreme of the potential 149 
The calculation 149 

A discussion of chart 9: the challenge/the 
GROWTH NUMBER 150 
Commentary 150 
Special cases 151 

The expression of the Challenge in the 
delineation 151 

Hal Allen’s organization sheet and delineation 152 

• CHAPTER 15: 

A GUIDE TO GROWTH: 

THE GROWTH NUMBER __ 153 

Definition: the energy which will illuminate the 
essence of the experiences and help expand a 
person’s development 153 
Commentary 153 



CONTENTS 


xv 


The calculation 154 

The Growth Number in chart 9: the challenge/ 

THE GROWTH NUMBER 154 
Examples 154 

The relative importance of the Growth Number 
and the Life Path 155 

A special case: The Growth Number is a master 
number 155 

Hal Allen’s organization sheet and delineation 155 

• CHAPTER 16: 

A LATER LESSON TO BE LEARNED: 

THE MATURITY NUMBER _ 157 

Definition: a sub-lesson introduced at 
maturity 157 
The calculation 157 
A discussion of chart 10: the maturity 
NUMBER 157 

The age for applying the Maturity Number 160 
A special case: a Karmic Debt behind the Maturity 
number 160 

A special case: the Maturity Number is a master 
number 160 

A special case: repeated core elements matching the 
Maturity Number 161 
The expression of the Maturity Number in the 
delineation 161 

Hal Allen’s organization sheet and delineation 162 

• CHAPTER 17: 

AN INNER DREAM: 

THE SECRET SELF_ 165 

Definition: a dream of desires cherished deep in 
the recesses of the mind 165 
The calculation 165 
Commentary 166 

The expression of the Secret Self in the 
delineation 166 

Hal Allen’s organization sheet and delineation 167 

• CHAPTER 18: 

NUANCES: GROUPS, 

NUMBERS BEHIND THE CORE ELEMENTS _ 169 

Groups 169 

Numbers behind the core elements 170 

Hal Allen’s organization sheet and delineation 171 



xvi 


CONTENTS 


• CHAPTER 19: 

THE BASIC VIEWPOINT: 

THE TEMPERAMENT_ 173 

Definition: the disposition determined by the 

relative proportion of physical, mental, emotional 
and intuitive components 173 
The component calculation 174 
The component strength calculation 175 
The component descriptions 175 
Using the component descriptions 178 
The Temperament as a directing modifier 178 
On the organization sheet 180 
Expressing the Temperament in a delineation 180 
Temperament delineation example 181 
Hal Allen’s organization sheet and delineation 183 

• CHAPTER 20: 

THE APPROACH TO EXPERIENCE: 

THE FIRST LETTER, THE FIRST VOWEL_ 185 

Definition: The First Letter and First Vowel 
describe the innate approach to experience 185 
A discussion of chart 11: the first letter 186 
A discussion of chart 12: the first vowel 187 
Commentary 187 
Examples 188 
Special cases 189 

Expression of the First Letter and First Vowel in a 
delineation 191 

Hal Allen’s organization sheet and delineation 192 

• CHAPTER 21: 

SYNTHESIS OF THE CORE 

AND MODIFIERS_ 193 

Hal Allen’s complete calculation sheet 193 
Hal Allen’s complete organization sheet 193 
Hal Allen’s delineation outline 195 
A complete step-by-step delineation of our fictitious 
subject, Hal Allen, using the core elements and 
modifiers 197 

A discussion of the use of the modifiers in Hal 
Allen’s delineation 217 
A summary of Hal Allen’s core synthesis (of 
Chapter 7) compared to a summary of the 
synthesis of his core and modifiers from this 
chapter 217 
Commentary 218 





CONTENTS 


xvii 


THE REFERENCE CHARTS 


CHART 1: 

THE NUMBERS—THE BASICS _ 
See Chapter 2 

_ 222 

CHART 2: 

THE LIFE PATH 

See Chapter 3 

_ 236 

CHART 3: 

THF. EXPRESSION 

See Chapter 4 

_ 250 

CHART 4: 

THE SOUL URGE 

See Chapter 5 

_ 264 

CHART 5: 

THE RTRTHDAY 

See Chapter 6 

_ 278 

CHART 6: 

THE ASPECTS 

See Chapter 7 

_ 292 

CHART 7: 

THE KARMIC DEBT 

See Chapter 11 

_ 306 

CHART 8: 

THE INTENSITY TABLE 

See Chapter 12 

_ 312 

CHART 9: 

THE CHALLENGE/ 



THE GROWTH NUMBER 

See Chapters 14 and 15 

_ 326 

CHART 10: 

THE MATURITY NUMBER 

See Chapter 16 

_ 340 

chart nr 

‘THE ETRST LETTER 

See Chapter 20 

_ 354 

CHART 12: 

THE FIRST VOWEL 

See Chapter 20 

_ 368 

















PART I: 

INTRODUCTION 


















CHAPTER l: A BEGINNING 


3 


CHAPTER 1 


A BEGINNING 

Numerology is the study of the occult significance of 
numbers. It’s probably the simplest of the occult fields to learn 
and master. Using numerology, you can discover a person’s 
strengths and weaknesses, deep inner needs, emotional reac¬ 
tions, ways of dealing with others, talents. You can help 
yourself by becoming aware of your own character and learn¬ 
ing to understand and deal with others—family, friends, 
lovers, employers, employees. You can find out what kind of 
potential energy and what type of stress are currently existing 
in your life and in the lives of those about you. You can deter¬ 
mine the best times to marry., change jobs, move, speculate, 
take a trip. 

How is all this information derived? In all the occult fields, 
observers have found correlations between certain clearly 
observable physical phenomena and the inner workings of peo¬ 
ple. In other words, the universe seems to have provided many 
keys which, when understood, provide superb tools for the 
understanding of human nature. In astrology, the key relates 
the planets’ positions at a person’s birth with the person’s traits; 
in palm reading, the key relates the lines and bumps of the 
hand with a person’s characteristics; and, in numerology, the 
key relates a person’s name and birthdate with that person’s 
nature. Significantly, all the readings are consistent with each 
other—the different readings often have similar information or 
cover different, but related, aspects of a person’s traits. 

Why does numerology work? There are many explanations 
in the literature—discussions of psychic energy, the God force, 
the vibratory effect of numbers. These explanations have not 
clarified anything for me. Frankly, / don’t know why numer¬ 
ology works. I don’t know whether the numbers are merely a 








4 


PART I: INTRODUCTION 


descriptive code or representative of a force determining peo¬ 
ple’s behavior. Numerology, like the other occult fields, does 
not, at this time, allow for scientific explanation. I can only at¬ 
test to the fact, confirmed by other numerologists and their 
clients, of the consistent congruence between a person’s 
numbers and that person’s characteristics and life experiences. 


Some numerologists feel that the field can be traced back 
over 10,000 years. The centuries-old Hebrew Kabbala, for in¬ 
stance, deals with the subject. Pythagoras in Greece some 2600 
years ago is even credited with giving this field new life, along 
with his other mathematical studies. It is delightful to be carry¬ 
ing on a tradition with such a long history. Although some peo¬ 
ple are comforted in the knowledge that numerology has so 
many thousands of years of study behind it, the link between 
modern numerology and the ancients is a somewhat tenuous 
connection. 

The modern phase of numerology was started by L. Dow 
Balliett, an American woman in Atlantic City, N. J., who pub¬ 
lished several books on the subject at the turn of the century. 
Later, Dr. Julia Seton helped publicize the field. Since then, 
the work of these two women has been extended by Florence 
Campbell, Juno Jordan and others, so that there now exists a 
small literature on the subject. Unfortunately, much of the lit¬ 
erature is abstruse, archaic or fragmented. 


This book is a presentation of the entire field of numerology 
in a manner which will allow a beginner to easily assimilate the 
material and an advanced student to quickly master the craft. 
The individual elements making up a reading are fully defined 
and analyzed and many examples are included showing how 
the elements are combined into a delineation. Throughout, the 
emphasis is on clarity and completeness. 

Each section of the book forms a complete unit of the sub¬ 
ject. When you’ve finished Part II, for instance, you’ll be capa¬ 
ble of giving simple character readings which will be correct as 
far as they go. Completion of Part III will add considerable 
depth to the readings and Part IV will develop your advanced 
delineation skills. Part V covers progressed delineations—de¬ 
termining the potential energies and events for any time in a 
person’s entire life. 

Much of the reference material required by a numerologist is 
presented in a unique format at the end of each volume: charts 



CHAPTER 1: A BEGINNING 


5 


specially designed for easy cross-reference. The charts are 
available for reference in giving readings after the subject has 
been mastered, 

I hope you’ll find numerology as exciting and satisfying as I 
have. I expect that if you study the field at all, you’ll be fas¬ 
cinated by your new understanding of yourself and others. In 
addition, you’ll probably be surprised to find your awareness of 
the universe and its structure significantly broadened. 













CHAPTER 2: THE BASICS 


CHAPTER 2 


THE BASICS 

THE BASIC NUMBERS 

The study of numerology is the study of the symbolism of 
numbers. Each number represents one large area of human 
awareness and experience; all the numbers together cover all 
possible awarenesses, experiences, talents and characteristics. 
Only the single digits—1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9—and the 
Master Numbers 11 and 22 are used. The Master Numbers, the 
only numbers not reduced to a single digit, represent a special 
higher level of potential than the other numbers. 

As a beginning step, think of each number as a lesson to be 
learned. We’ll list each number along with its “keywords,” the 
simplest expression of the number’s lesson, and then describe 
the lesson more completely in an accompanying paragraph or 
two. Think of the lesson as the heart of each number, the es¬ 
sence to which all the experiences and characteristics relate. 

In this introductory chapter, each number is described brief¬ 
ly. As your study advances, additional aspects of each number 
will be discussed. Your own observation and experience will 
broaden your understanding. Later on, in the advanced Chap¬ 
ter 22 in Volume 2, we’ll summarize the myriad characteristics 
of all the numbers. 

1 

INDIVIDUATION 

INDEPENDENCE 

ATTAINMENT 

A person must distinguish himself from other people and 
acknowledge his own INDIVIDUATION. The individual has 
to develop the capability of standing on his own and going from 
dependence to INDEPENDENCE. Once independent, the per¬ 
son becomes aware of his potential for ATTAINMENT as an 


The lessons 
of the 
numbers 









PART I: INTRODUCTION 


individual—for creating and pioneering when working alone, 
for leading and managing when working with others. 

2 

RELATION 

COOPERATION 

Independence is important but has its limitations. There are 
other people all about, and another lesson involves being a 
meaningful part of a group—a small group like family or 
friends, a larger group like a business or community. The per¬ 
son must learn adaptability, service, consideration for others, 
i.e., the meaning of a RELATION with others, the idea of 
COOPERATION. 

3 

EXPRESSION 
JOY OF LIVING 

A person must discover, both as an individual and as a group 
member, his capability of EXPRESSION: (1) artistic expres¬ 
sion—writing, painting, sculpting, singing or any of the many 
other means of expressing inner thoughts and emotions, and 
(2) expression of feelings toward others—friendship, affection, 
love. The JOY OF LIVING can be expressed with optimism 
and enthusiasm. There can be a purity, even a naivete here. 
„ (This is, perhaps, the most enjoyable lesson of all the numbers.) 

4 

LIMITATION 

ORDER 

SERVICE 

Life doesn’t always present opportunities for singing and 
laughing. Life doesn’t always appear expansive or yours for the 
taking. Often, it feels just the opposite. The individual must 
learn the difficult law of LIMITATION. Everyone has limita¬ 
tions—limitations presented by the environment, by the 
physical body, by the restrictions of the individual’s view¬ 
points. Rather than struggle against these limits, it is necessary 
to learn to live with them, to accept them and to make a 
meaningful existence, not in spite of the limitations, but be¬ 
cause of the limitations. It is a difficult lesson. The individual 
embarking on this course must learn system and organization, 
ORDER on a practical level. He must be prepared to be of 
SERVICE to others. 





CHAPTER 2: THE BASICS 


y 


5 

CONSTRUCTIVE FREEDOM 

There is a time for expansion, for dealing with change, unex¬ 
pected happenings, adventure. This lesson usually gives a per¬ 
son an abundance of talents in every direction, the capability 
of accomplishing almost anything for which an opportunity is 
presented—and many opportunities are presented. With the 
freedom that this abundance of talent and opportunity brings, 
life can be exciting. But the lesson is more difficult: the indi¬ 
vidual must learn the CONSTRUCTIVE use of FREEDOM. The 
individual must not waste his many talents or misuse his on¬ 
going opportunities; he must not get lost in solely physical 
desires—food, sex, alcohol, drugs. He must not scatter his 
potential and end up with frustration. He must make a mean¬ 
ingful existence by using freedom productively. 

6 

RALANCE 

RESPONSIBILITY 

LOVE 

A person must learn to give the beauty of love and harmony, 
sympathy and understanding, protection and BALANCE. 
Along with the balancing, the lesson of RESPONSIBILITY can 
be a meaningful one. The individual may find himself responsi¬ 
ble for more than what rightly seems his share. Others will 
recognize his stre,pgfh, and he may be expected to help them if 
they are in need and cannot help themselves. He will probably 
be the one who holds the family together, who harmonizes and 
adjusts difficult situations. He may choose to limit himself to 
his family, his friends, possibly the close community. The 
friendship and LOVE the individual expresses to others will 
come back to him from those he helps. He can bask in the glory 
of a job well done and the quiet reward of friendship and love 
returned. 

The individual’s capability at harmony and balance may also 
be expressed creatively—there is the possibility of artistic 
achievement. 

7 

ANALYSIS 

UNDERSTANDING 

There’s a time for introspection, a time to subject all an in¬ 
dividual knows to mental ANALYSIS, so that eventually a per¬ 
son possesses much of knowledge and UNDERSTANDING. 




10 


PART I: INTRODUCTION 


Spiritual awareness is employed, and emphasis on material 
matters avoided. Desire for material accumulation will prob¬ 
ably lead the individual off the track, for this is a time for 
study and meditation, a time to know oneself—in the deepest 
way. 

There will be much time spent alone—the person must learn to 
be alone and not feel isolated. Often, the individual will appear 
“different” to others—his way of thinking or doing may be 
very much his own and may seem inexplicable to his fellow 
man. He must accept that he is on a different wavelength and 
find satisfaction in that. In a world where materialism rates so 
highly, the road for the counselor, the professor, the pure re¬ 
searcher may be a difficult one. 

8 

MATERIAL SATISFACTION 

The individual must learn to deal with the material things of 
life, the practical matters. He will find himself at home in the 
business world—with much capability as an efficient ad¬ 
ministrator or executive. He will learn how to handle 
money—how to accumulate it, how to spend it wisely. The in¬ 
dividual will work for MATERIAL SATISFACTION. This 
may mean emphasis on money to buy the best in houses, cars, 
furnishings, trips. (Perhaps, if he can reach the highest level of 
this lesson, he will see that material freedom can mean relying 
very little on money or material matters. Few ever gain this 
insight.) 

The individual will be very conscious of status in relation to 
material things and will work to satisfy his need for status to 
prove his superiority. He may appear single-minded, rigid or 
stubborn to others. Striving for power and high material goals 
may make him aware of the limitations of his ability or the 
restrictions of his circumstances. 

9 

SELFLESSNESS 
HUM ANIT ARIANISM 

There’s a time to learn the satisfaction of giving to his fellow 
man. This is a difficult lesson. The satisfaction comes from the 
giving. There is little reward—the love and friendship are 
sometimes returned, the obligation often not repaid. The per¬ 
son must place all others before himself, must give for the sheer 




CHAPTER 2: THE BASICS 


11 


pleasure of giving, because he has learned the ultimate satisfac¬ 
tion of SELFLESSNESS and HUMANITARIANISM. The in¬ 
dividual gives (1) by helping others or (2) by giving of himself 
in some form of creative expression. 

11 

ILLUMINATION 

The master numbers exist on a higher spiritual plane than the 
single digits. The first master number, the 11, must work to 
develop intuition, to tune into psychic forces not available to 
those with lower numbers. He must stand ready to be a channel 
with a message from above. In his life, he must inspire by his 
own example, living in the way revealed to him, spreading his 
ILLUMINATION for others to absorb and benefit. This 
number is as difficult as it is rewarding. 

Often, particularly at an early age, the individual is aware of 
his special powers yet unable to synthesize them for his own use 
or for the good of his fellow man. He is often a relatively im¬ 
practical idealist, far more a dreamer than a doer. There is an 
undercurrent of nervous tension always present from the high 
power sources to which the individual is attuned. He has to 
learn to live with his special powers, to set himself aside from 
the world of material accumulation in order to better under¬ 
stand the powerful forces which can reveal a higher guidance. 

22 

MASTER RUILDER 

The second master number, the 22, is potentially capable of 
combining the idealism of the first master number, the 11, with 
the ability to put these ideals into a concrete form. Enormous 
power is available to him to produce on a significant scale, for 
the benefit of humanity. When this potential can be realized, 
the individual becomes a MASTER RUILDER, capable of feats 
well beyond all others. 

Few with this number can marshal their forces to reach 
anywhere near the ultimate potential. The individual is aware 
of the forces within him, aware also of the nervous tension that 
accompanies these forces. He spends his time grappling with 
powers that are difficult to comprehend and use. Often, he is 
seen by his fellow men as a person with enormous potential 
who has not, for some unexplained reason, been able to fully 
use his capabilities. The highest potential is also the most dif¬ 
ficult to reach. 





12 


PART I: INTRODUCTION 


Odd/even 

numbers 


Other 

number 

relations 


The numbers are related to each other in many different 
ways. The odd numbers, for example, have somewhat different 
qualities than the even. 


ODD NUMBERS 


1 INDIVIDUATION 
INDEPENDENCE 
ATTAINMENT 


3 EXPESSION 
JOY OF LIVING 


5 CONSTRUCTIVE FREEDOM 


7 ANALYSIS 

UNDERSTANDING 


9 SELFLESSNESS 
HUMANITARIANISM 


11 ILLUMINATION 


EVEN NUMBERS 


2 RELATION 
COOPERATION 


4 LIMITATION 
ORDER 
SERVICE 


6 BALANCE 

RESPONSIBILITY 

LOVE 


8 MATERIAL SATISFACTION 


22 MASTER BUILDER 


The odd numbers can be thought of as dealing with the indi¬ 
vidual alone—the individuation of the 1 or the selflessness of 
the 9; the even numbers, on the other hand, involve the rela¬ 
tion of the individual to the group —the cooperation of the 2, 
the love of the 6. 

The odd numbers relate to relatively abstract concepts—the 
joy of living of the 3, the illumination of the 11, while the even 
numbers are concerned with more practical matters—the ser¬ 
vice of the 4, the material satisfaction of the 8. 

The odd numbers involve more idealistic endeavors—the 
constructive freedom of the 5 or the understanding of the 7; the 
even numbers relate to more mundane affairs—the responsi¬ 
bility of the 6 or the order of the 4. 


There are other relations besides the odd and even. 

Each number can be viewed as the next logical development 
following the stage represented by the previous number. The 
independence of the 1, for instance, is followed by the cooper¬ 
ation with others of the 2; the constructive freedom of the 5 is 
followed by the balance and responsibility of the 6. 

From a different perspective, each number represents the 
opposite of the previous number: the limitation of the 4 is fol- 




CHAPTER 2: THE BASICS 


13 


lowed by the constructive freedom of the 5, the material satis¬ 
faction of the 8 is followed by the selflessness of the 9. 


Although it’s not obvious from the brief descriptions, some 
numbers seem to group naturally with other numbers because 
of the similarity of the characteristics expressed. 

For instance, 2, 6 and 9 all deal with different aspects of how 
people get along with each other. The number 2 represents the 
less personal relation of people in a business or some other 
group situation associating and cooperating with each other. 
The number 6 represents the relation of people in a family or 
other small community group—6 deals with friendship, affec¬ 
tion and love. The number 9 represents the giving quality of a 
humanitarian or philanthropist—a person who gives feelings, 
time or money to others with little concern with return. 

Another example of a group is 1, 4 and 8, all representing 
different aspects of self-centeredness. The number 1 involves 
the potential to become independent, to break with any 
prevalent bonds of dependency. A person working on in¬ 
dependence is likely to be most concerned with his own needs 
to the partial or complete exclusion of others’ needs. The 
number 4 may concern a person with his own real or imagined 
limitations. A person may strive to break through the feelings of 
limitation or may, although rarely, attempt to learn to live 
with the strong restrictions imposed. In either case, the concern 
with limitation is likely to make a person extremely aware of his 
own needs and hi$. sfruggle to fulfill the needs despite the re¬ 
strictions, leaving little room to be concerned with others’ 
needs. The 8 may well feel more power than the 4, but usually, 
because of this power, the 8 will work hard to take care of his 
material needs with the traits and power he possesses. An 8’s 
material needs tend to be a large and significant area of his life, 
so that the needs of others are likely to go wanting. 

The group of numbers 2, 6 and 9 stand for many traits 
resides the relation of people to each other and 1, 4 and 8 
involve many characteristics besides self-centeredness. But, 
awareness of the different number groupings gives you a po¬ 
tent tool for a delineation. If you find a person with strong 2’s, 
6’s or 9’s, the likelihood is strong that this is a person with a 
friendly, loving, giving approach. Or, if you find a person with 
strong l’s, 4’s or 8’s, this is likely to be a relatively self-centered 
person. 


Most people express positive energy most of the time. That’s 
why all the keywords define potential achievements: the 
achievement of independence with 1, the achievement of 


Number 

groups 


Positive/ 

negative 

energy 






14 


PART h INTRODUCTION 


Chart 1: 
The 
Numbers— 
Basics 


cooperation with 2, all the way to the achievement of a master 
builder with 22. But, although there’s mostly positive potential 
being used, there’s also, unfortunately, negative energy 
available, too. Since the numbers represent all possible traits 
and characteristics, they symbolize negative as well as positive 
potentials. 

Each number can be thought of as part of a single continuum 
extending from 1 to 22, and each keyword (and each 
awareness, experience, talent or characteristic) can be viewed, 
not as an isolated phenomenon, but as one step of an infinite 
number of steps along its own continuum. The keyword 
represents the positive potential of the number, but the con¬ 
tinuum includes the entire range from the negative potential to 
the positive. 

When we use the 1 keyword INDEPENDENCE, we really 
mean the continuum on which independence represents the 
ultimate positive potential. The negative end of the con¬ 
tinuum would be lack of independence, i. e., dependence. In 
between the two extremes would be passivity, resignation, 
subservience. 

Similarly, the 6 keyword LOVE is one end of a continuum, 
with the other end being inability to relate. From inability to 
relate, other steps along the continuum would be association, 
friendship, affection and eventually love. 

Each number, then, must be thought of as representative of 
the total continuum. The keyword is handy for memorization, 
but it only states one end, the positive end, of the continuum. 
At the beginning of your study, it will be useful to fall back on 
the keyword and the brief description, but your awareness of 
the symbolism will rapidly expand as you begin to relate the 
keyword to the continuum it represents. 


Turn to chart 1: the numbers—basics, on page 222. The 
paragraphs describing the numbers are repeated here in a dif¬ 
ferent format, a format designed to make it easier to see the re¬ 
lations between the numbers. If you thumb through the other 
charts grouped at the end of each volume, you’ll see that they 
follow a format similar to Chart 1. There’s a page for each 
number in each chart, with the number and its keywords at 
the top of the page. The first page of each chart is headed with 
the element which the specific chart explores, and, on the sec¬ 
ond page, the make-up of this particular chart is described and 
explained. Because of this repeating format, it’s easy, first, to 
compare different numbers for the same element in one chart, 
and second, to compare the descriptions of a particular number 
in different charts. 




CHAPTER 2: THE BASICS 


15 


THE BASIC DATA 

Only two simple pieces of information are needed as a basis 
for delineation: the birthdate, and the name given at birth. If 
either is not available, a reading is not possible. 

The birthdate is usually readily available. The birthname 
may, at times, be more difficult to determine. When there’s 
any doubt, check the birth certificate if at all possible. Many 
people change the spelling of their name or add or subtract 
middle names. It’s not uncommon to find a person surprised at 
either the name or the spelling on the certificate. Even if the 
name on the birth certificate has never been actively used, this 
name is still one of the determinants. 

(Neither the birthdate nor the birthname is accidental or 
arbitrary. The soul comes to earth in a physical body to learn 
lessons that can only be learned while in a material form. The 
birthdate and birthname are determined for the soul. Your 
birthdate was the best time to reappear on earth—with your 
birthname—to learn the lessons your soul has chosen to learn. 
Whether your parents searched long and hard for your name, 
or came upon it in a flash, the name came to your parents 
through universal wavelengths they probably didn’t know 
existed.) 

The numerology described in this book is based on the twenty- 
six letter Roman alphabet used in English and French speaking 
countries. The same numerology system also applies if similar 
alphabets, such as the twenty-eight letter alphabet used in 
Spanish-speaking countries or the twenty-one letter Italian 
alphabet, are used. ’(The number values assigned to these dif¬ 
ferent alphabets are given later in this chapter.) If a person were 
named in an alphabet using other than Roman letters—Russian, 
Japanese, Hebrew or Greek, for instance—the transliterated 
name (the name as written in the Roman alphabet) will provide 
the same accurate numerology reading. 


Some names have to be slightly adjusted for use in a delinea¬ 
tion, as follows: 

1. In some cultures, a person may be given seven or eight dif¬ 
ferent names. A reading based on this long a name would be 
diffused and give an inaccurate picture. Use birthnames, as 
given, up to a maximum of four names. If a person has more 
than four names, use only the first and last as the birthname. 

Carolyn Emily Annette Crown is used as Carolyn Emily 
Annette Crown. 

Maria Luisa Juliana Aida Basile is used as Maria Basile. 


Different 

alphabets 


Special 

names 





16 


PART I: INTRODUCTION 


Adopted 

child’s 

name 


2. If a name is hyphenated, eliminate the hyphen and use as 
two separate names. 

Betty-Jane Mosher is used as Betty Jane Mosher. 
Bichard Pettingbone-Wilson is used as Richard Petting- 
bone Wilson. 

3. Combine a compound last name into one name. 

Arthur van der Kalen is used as Arthur Vanderkalen. 
Anna della Reese is used as Anna Dellareese. 

4. Omit Jr. or Sr. or II, III, IV following the birthname. 

Henry McAnn, Jr. is used as Henry McAnn. 

Neil Harold Lewis III is used as Neil Harold Lewis. 

There is one significant exception to the use of the 
birthname. In the case of adoption, use the name the child is 
given by the first family with whom the child resides on a per¬ 
manent basis. The soul’s linkage here is with the permanent 
adoptive parents rather than with the foster parents or natural 
parents. 


THE BASIC OPERATION 

To start a delineation, we convert the birthdate and birth¬ 
name into single digits or master numbers using the BASIC 
OPERATION: Simply reduce the numbers by addition. For 
example: 

34 = 3 + 4 = 1 

50 = 5 + 0 = | 

48 = 4 + 8 = 12 

12 is not a single digit or master number. Repeat the ad¬ 
dition process. 

12 = 1 + 2 = g 

29 = 2 + 9 = n 

(If a master number—11 or 22—is reached, don’t 
reduce it to a single digit.) 







CHAPTER 2: THE BASICS 


To find the basic number corresponding to a year, use the 
same process: 


1952 =1 + 9 + 5 + 2= 17 

= 1 + 7 = 8 

1972 = 1 + 9 + 7 + 2= 19 

= 1 + 9 = 10 

= 1 + 0 = 1 

1975 =1 + 9 + 7 + 5 = 22 

(22 is a master number. Don’t reduce it to a single unit.) 


Names are similarly reduced by addition. Each letter in the 
name is assigned a number based on its location in the twenty- 
six letter English alphabet. 

A, the first letter, is 1 


B, the second letter, is 2 

C, the third letter, is 3 


J, the tenth letter, is 1 

(10 = 1 + 0 = 1) 

K, the eleventh letter, is 2 

(In assigning number values 
to letters, all numbers are 
reduced to a single digit. 
Although K is the 
eleventh letter, and will 
be used as a master 
number in other con¬ 
texts, for these purposes 

K is a 2.) 

(11 = 1 + 1 = 2) 

L, the twelfth letter, is 3 

(12 =1 + 2 = 3) 

S, the nineteenth letter, is 1 

(19 = 1 + 9 = 10 

10 = 1 + 0 = 1) 

T, the twentieth letter, is 2 

(20 = 2 + 0 = 2) 

U, the twenty-first letter, is 3 

(21 = 2 +1 = 3) 

Z, the twenty-sixth letter, is 8 

(26 = 2 + 6 = 8) 




IS 


PART I: INTRODUCTION 


The number 
value of 
letters 


The number values of the twenty-six letter English alphabet 
are summed up in this chart. (The French alphabet uses the same 
twenty-six letters.) 


1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

l 

A 

B 

C 

D 

E 

F 

G 

H 

I 

z. 

>' 

J 

K 

L 

M 

N 

O 

P 

Q 

R 


S 

T 

U 

V 

W 

X 

Y 

z 


'j 

'i 

The number 

values of the twenty-eight letter Spanish alpha- 

it 

bet are: 









f 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

I 

A 

B 

C 

D 

E 

F 

G 

H 

I 

j 

J 


L 

M 

N 

N 

O 

P 

Q 

R 

RR 

1 

1 

S 

T 

U 

V 


X 

Y 

z 


;| 


CH 




LL 




\ 

$ 

The number values for the twenty-one letter Italian alphabet 

A 

are: 









i 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 


A 

B 

C 

D 

E 

F 

G 

H 

I 

| 



L 

M 

N 

O 

P 

Q 

R 

if 

S 

T 

U 

V 




z 




To find the basic number corresponding to a name, assign 
each letter its number and reduce, by addition, to a single digit 
or master number. For example: 

ARTHUR 

1 + 9 + 2 + 8 + 3 + 9 = 32 

= 3 + 2 = 5 

KEVIN 

2 + 5 + 4 + 9 + 5=25 

= 2 + 5 = 7 

KAREN 

2+l + 9 + 5 + 5= 22 

With the completion of Part I, we’ve laid the foundation on 
which to build your readings. In Part II, we’ll use the BASIC 
OPERATION—reducing the numbers by addition—to convert 
the BASIC DATA—birthdate and birthname—into BASIC 
NUMBERS with their symbolic meanings and proceed with the 
beginnings of character delineation. 


I 




PART II: 

CHARACTER DELINEATION 
THE CORE 















THE CORE 


21 


THE CORE 

There are approximately twenty numerology components 
which are derived from a person’s birthdate and birthname. A 
complete character delineation evolves from the synthesis of 
these many pieces. The core of a reading involves only four 
of these elements. The core expresses the essence of a person— 
his direction, his strengths and weaknesses, his potential for 
change and development. 

If we think of a complete character delineation as com¬ 
parable to a full-color portrait, the core would be equivalent to 
a slightly fuzzy black-and-white reproduction of the portrait. 
The core would be as rough and incomplete as the reproduc¬ 
tion—but it would be accurate, and it would give us the major 
characteristics just as the reproduction does. The reproduction 
might show that the person has large almond-shaped eyes, but 
until the color is added, you wouldn’t know if they’re black or 
blue or brown, and until the focus is sharpened, you can’t real¬ 
ly know if there’s an especially lively glint in the eye. Similarly, 
the core may tell you that the person is systematic and orderly. 
But when color is added and the focus is sharpened (or in nu¬ 
merology terms, when the modifiers are added) the person may 
be systematic to the point of stubbornness or rigidity. 

The core, then, is the major determinant in the character de¬ 
lineation, and its power is diffused throughout the entire 
reading. The core, while only part of the picture, is accurate as 
far as it goes. 

The core consists of the following elements: 

1. Life Path 

2. Expression 

3. Soul Urge 

4. Birthday 





















CHAPTER 3: THE LIFE PATH 


23 


CHAPTER 3 


THE FIRST ELEMENT 
OF THE CORE: 

THE LIFE PATH 


THE LIFE PATH IS THE MAJOR LESSON TO BE 
LEARNED IN THIS LIFE, THE CENTRAL FOCUS OF A 
PERSON’S EXISTENCE. The Life Path is at the heart of the 
core. 

Let’s look, for a moment, at the world in terms of reincar¬ 
nation. Simply stated, reincarnation explains that the soul re¬ 
turns to earth in physical form again and again, each time to 
concentrate on a specific lesson. When the soul has absorbed all 
the lessons, it no longer needs to return to earth, but can move 
on to a higher plane. The specific lesson, determined by the 
soul prior to assuming physical form, is the Life Path. Whether 
you believe in reincarnation or not, the Life Path is still the 
central focus of the life. 

The Life Path (sometimes called the Birthforce, Birthpath or 
Destiny) determines other related matters. It describes the op¬ 
portunities available in order to learn the major lesson, as well 
as the environment—the people and places—in which these op¬ 
portunities are likely to be found. Some of a person’s attitudes 
and characteristics are determined by the Life Path, for these 
traits are prescribed as an aid to the study of the main lesson. 

Visualize the Life Path as a broad channel or highway run¬ 
ning through all the possible activities a person may encounter 
in a lifetime. The route holds the environment and all the op¬ 
portunities for the study at hand. The channel is extremely 
broad. People with the same Life Path may have different ap¬ 
proaches to pursuing their study, but the channel is wide 


Definition 




24 


PART II: THE CORE 


Calculation 


enough to accommodate all comers. As long as a person stays on 
the course, he will be contributing the maximum to his own 
growth and development. Most people wander out of the chan¬ 
nel from time to time; some people have difficulty finding the 
channel (and a numerology reading may help them get their 
bearings); and some few people choose to head off in some 
other direction. 


THE LIFE PATH IS DERIVED BY FINDING THE SUM 
OF THE MONTH, DAY AND YEAR OF BIRTH AND RE¬ 
DUCING THAT SUM TO A SINGLE DIGIT OR MASTER 
NUMBER. 

1. Determine the number representing the month, day and 
year. Determine each separately. 


MONTH: 


January, the first month, has a value of. 1 

February, the second month, has a value of. 2 

March, the third month, has a value of. 3 

April, the fourth month, has a value of. 4 

May, the fifth month, has a value of. 5 

June, the sixth month, has a value of. 6 

July, the seventh month, has a value of. 7 

August, the eighth month, has a value of. 8 

September, the ninth month, has a value of. 9 

October, the tenth month, has a value of 10 = 1 + 0 = . . . 1 

November, the eleventh month, has a value of.11 

(master number, not reduced) 
December, the twelfth month, has a value of 12 =1 + 2=3 


DAY: 

Add the numbers and reduce to a single digit or a master num¬ 
ber. For example: 


If the birthday is the 1st, the value is. 1 

2nd. 2 

9th. 9 

10th = 10= 1 + 0= . 1 

11th.11 

(master number, not reduced) 

12th = 12 =1 + 2= . 3 

20th = 20 = 2 + 0= . 2 

21st = 21 = 2 + 1 = .. 3 























CHAPTER 3: THE LIFE PATH 


25 


22nd.22 

(master number, not reduced) 
23rd = 23 = 2 + 3= . 5 

YEAR: 

Add the numbers and reduce to a single digit or a master num¬ 
ber. For example: 

1918 =1 + 9+1 + 8 = 19 

= 1 + 9 =10 

= 1 + 0=1 

1940 = 1 + 9 + 4 + 0= 14 

= 1 + 4 = 5 

1975 =1 + 9 + 7 + 5 = 22 

(master number, not reduced) 

2. Add together the numbers representing the month, day and 
year. Reduce to a single digit or a master number. 

Example: May 28, 1935 

Month: May is the fifth month. Therefore, May = 5. 

Day: 28 = 2 + 8 = 10 

= 1 + 0=1 

Year: 1935 =1 + 9 + 3 + 5= 18 

= 1 + 8 = 9 

Write the numbers directly below the date: 

May 28, 1935 

5 + 1 + 9 = 15 

= 1 + 5 = 6 

The Life Path is 6 


Example: November 4, 1975 

Month: November is the eleventh month. Therefore, 
November = 11 

Day: 4 

Year: 1975 =1 + 9 + 7 + 5 = 22 

Write the numbers directly below the date: 

November 4, 1975 

11 +4 + 22 = 37 

= 3 + 7 = 10 
= 1 + 0=1 

The Life Path is 1 




26 


PART II: THE CORE 


Always add the numbers after separately determining the num¬ 
ber representing the month, day and year. If you add them all 
at once, you may end up with a master number that doesn’t 
apply or lose a master number that should apply: 

Example: March 12, 1940 

Month: March is the third month. Therefore, 

March = 3 

Day: 12 = 1 + 2 = 3 

Year: 1940 = 1 + 9 + 4 + 0= 14 

= 1 + 4=5 


Write the numbers below the date: 

March 12, 1940 

3 + 3 + 5 = 11 

The Life Path is 11 


Adding the numbers all together would have been incorrect: 

March 12, 1940 

3 +1 + 2+1 + 9 + 4 + 0= 20 

= 2 + 0 = 2 
Incorrect. 

The master number 
has been lost. 

With just a little practice, you can do most of the work in 
your head, and the first step of your numerology calculation 
would look like this: 

November 4, 1975 

11 +4 + 22 = 37 = 10 = 1 Life Path 


Chart 2: The Turn to chart 2: THE LIFE PATH on page 236. Here you’ll find 
Life Path discussions of the salient points of all the Life Paths. 


Central The upper horizontal division, labeled “Central Focus,” con- 
Focus t a i ns discussions of the main lesson of each Life Path. The 
essence of the lessons are the keywords appearing adjacent to 
the number at the top of the table. The discussion in this upper 
division is an elaboration on the keywords. Read the central 



CHAPTER 3: THE LIFE PATH 


27 


focus of your own Life Path and relate it to the keywords. 
Compare the central focus of your Life Path with the basic 
lesson of your Life Path number shown on Chart 1. Make this 
comparison with a few Life Path numbers of people you know 
well. You should begin to experience the simple relation be¬ 
tween the charts, as well as the complex meanings of the 
keywords and the numbers they represent. 

The lower the number of the Life Path, the less complex and 
more direct is the lesson to be assimilated. Life Paths 1 through 
6 deal with fundamental concepts. Life Paths 7, 8, and 9 are 
dealing with more advanced understandings; in a sense, a 
higher level of some of the lower numbered lessons. And 11 and 
22 are concerned with most complex manifestations. The 
higher the number of the Life Path, the greater the ultimate 
potential and the more difficult the possibility of reaching that 
potential. 

Each soul determines its own Life Path before coming to 
earth in a physical manifestation. The lessons are not learned in 
consecutive order. Each lesson must usually be studied over a 
period of many, many lifetimes. 

The second horizontal division of Chart 2, labeled “Charac¬ 
teristics,” describes the traits and attitudes found with each 
Life Path. All the traits are not developed to the same degree 
of intensity in a person, though they are all usually appar¬ 
ent. Some of the traits are seemingly assets—the warmth and 
friendliness of 3, the enthusiasm of 5. Some of the traits are 
seemingly liabilities—the self-centeredness of the 1 or the lack 
of adaptability of the 7. But, as you work with these traits, 
you’ll see that they are not fixed assets or liabilities at all—each 
trait can be thought of as a continuum of traits which run the 
gamut from positive to negative. The enthusiasm of 5, for in¬ 
stance, can range from the positive pole of enthusiasm which 
can make a vital contribution, to the negative pole of enthu¬ 
siasm for every new exciting awareness, an enthusiasm which 
makes it difficult for some 5’s to stick to any project for any 
length of time. The self-centeredness of the 1 can range from 
the negative pole of complete self-centeredness to the exclusion 
of all others’ interests, to the positive pole of self-concern denot¬ 
ing a person’s belief in himself or his work strong enough to 
to push forward a project that would not succeed without this 
added strength. 

As we proceed with the development of the art of character 
delineation, it will sometimes be possible to clarify the extent to 
which the various traits are positively or negatively expressed 
for each person. For now, we must content ourselves with only 
the awareness of the characteristics. 


Character¬ 

istics 




28 


PART II: THE CORE 


Negative 

Expression 


Commentary 


Sample 

reading 


Most people are using their lives in a constructive manner. 
In numerology terms, we would say that they are expressing 
the positive side of their Life Path, the side of the Life Path dis¬ 
cussed under “Central Focus.” Everybody, from time to time, 
and some few people almost all the time, express the negative 
side of the path instead and live in a non-constructive (rarely 
destructive) way. The “Negative Expression,” the third hori¬ 
zontal division, defines the facets of this side of the character. A 
person expresses negatively (a) when he exaggerates the lesson 
of the Life Path to the point of unproductivity, or (b) when he 
denies the lesson of the Life Path to express the very opposite of 
the intended lesson. 

Later on, we’ll see how, in some cases, you can determine 
whether this negative approach is stressed to the detriment of 
the major lesson. Even when a person is following this negative 
expression, he still possesses the traits noted in the “Character¬ 
istics” division, but he is apt to be emphasizing the negative end 
of the continuum of some of the traits, at least. 


The lower horizontal division of Chart 2 provides a “Com¬ 
mentary” on some of the subtleties involved on each Life Path. 
As you gain experience in numerology, these discussions should 
help clarify some of the complexities you’re likely to meet. 


With an understanding of the Life Path, you now possess the 
single most important element of a character delineation. The 
information you have is accurate, as far as it goes, but must be 
couched in careful terms to allow for the ample modifications 
as you synthesize the many additional elements. 


A sample reading with this limited information, might read 
as follows: 


The central focus of your life is the 
learning of_ 


Fill in with 
“Central Focus” 
information. 


Here are some of the attitudes and 
traits you’re likely to express:_ 


Fill in with 
“Characteristics ” 
information. 


Like most people, there are times 
when you aren’t always expressing 
the best that’s in you. Sometimes, 


Fill in with “Nega¬ 
tive Expression” 
information: first. 




CHAPTER 3: THE LIFE PATH 


29 


you’re probably struggling with_ the exaggeration of 

_ the lesson, and 

or with _ second, the denial 

_ of the lesson. 


When you begin doing delineations, you’ll find that some 
people, although they recognize their characteristics quickly, 
complain that they’d prefer a different Life Path to the one 
they now have. You may want to remind them that it’s possible 
to lead a full, meaningful and productive life with a Life Path 
of any number. 

Here, for instance, are the Life Paths of some famous people. 
(The lesson of the Life Path in the examples chosen is most 
visible to the public, but this isn’t necessarily the case with the 
Life Paths of all celebrated personalities.) 


Life Paths 
of some 
famous 
people 


Martin Luther King (Michael Luther King), born January 15, 
1929, with a Life Path of 1. 

A life devoted to INDEPENDENCE and ATTAINMENT. 


Henry Kissinger (Heinz Alfred Kissinger), born May 27, 1923, 
with a Life Path of 2. 

The quintessence of diplomacy, a master of RELATION and 
COOPERATION. 


Boris Pasternak (Boris Leonidovich Pasternak), born February 

10, 1890, with a r Life Path of 3. 

The Nobel Prize winner, who made the most of EXPRESSION. 

Sigmund Freud, born May 6, 1856, with a Life Path of 4. 

The father of psychoanalysis, his contribution consisted of us¬ 
ing ORDER and SERVICE. 

Abraham Lincoln, born February 12, 1809, with a Life Path 
of 5. 

His name is almost synonymous with CONSTRUCTIVE 
FREEDOM. 

Dwight Eisenhower (David Dwight Eisenhower), born Octo¬ 
ber 14, 1890, with a Life Path of 6. 

He handled the Allied forces in World War II with BALANCE 
and RESPONSIBILITY. 

Eleanor Roosevelt (Anna Eleanor Roosevelt), born November 

11, 1884, with a Life Path of 7. 

A life of accomplishment based on ANALYSIS and UNDER¬ 
STANDING. 



30 


PART II: THE CORE 


Andrew Carnegie, born November 25, 1835, with a Life Path 
of 8. 

A self-made millionaire, who learned about MATERIAL 
SATISFACTION. 

Mahatma Gandhi (Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi), born Oc¬ 
tober 2, 1869, with a Life Path of 9. 

The leader of India’s independence drive was immersed in 
ideas of SELFLESSNESS and HUMANITARIANISM. 

Peter Hurkos (Peter Van Der Hurk), born May 21,1911, with a 
Life Path of 11. 

This psychic detective involved himself in the spiritual realms 
of ILLUMINATION. 

Joseph Kennedy (Joseph Patrick Kennedy), born September 6, 
1888, with a Life Path of 22. 

The multi-millionaire head of the Kennedy clan was a MAS¬ 
TER BUILDER. 


The Life Path is fixed and unchangeable. No one can change 
his birthdate and therefore no one can change his Life Path. 
Acceptance of the Life Path allows for full growth and pro¬ 
ductive development. Confidence in himself and his direction 
allows a person to move forward to a positive destiny. 



CHAPTER 4: THE EXPRESSION 


31 


CHAPTER 4 


THE SECOND ELEMENT 
OF THE CORE: 

THE EXPRESSION 


THE EXPRESSION IS A PERSON’S POTENTIAL NAT¬ 
URAL ABILITIES. The Expression is second in importance of 
the four core elements. 

All of us are gifted, in one direction or another, with our 
own natural taletits* and capabilities. The Expression, describ¬ 
ing these abilities, is usually the part of a person which is most 
visible to others. Because the Expression is often so apparent, it 
should not be mistaken for the essence of a person. These 
natural abilities are what we have to work with as we move 
along the broad channel of the Life Path, and, as such, they are 
less important than the central focus of the Life Path. When 
the Expression and the Life Path are harmonious, the visible 
Expression may also reflect, to a large extent, the main lesson 
delineated by the Life Path. When the Expression and the Life 
Path are not harmonious, the Life Path may come as a surprise 
to the observer who sees only the more obvious Expression. 

A few numerologists feel that the Expression is the single 
most important element in a reading. In my experience, I have 
found that the Life Path holds the key to the understanding of 
a person’s nature in a way that the Expression does not. The 
Life Path is fixed (since the birthdate can’t be changed) but the 
Expression, derived from the name, can be altered by changing 
the name. To my way of thinking, this adds additional weight 


Definition 





32 


PART II: THE CORE 


Calculation 


to the importance of the Life Path over the Expression. As you 
go along in your study, examine your own numbers and the 
numbers of other people you know well. Compare the impor¬ 
tance of the Life Path and the Expression in providing an 
awareness of a person and draw your own conclusion. (If your 
conclusion favors the Expression, consult the bibliography for a 
view favoring this understanding.) 

The Expression often describes the abilities used in the type 
of work the person enjoys. For instance, a 6 Expression, with its 
emphasis on balance and responsibility, may well indicate a 
teacher, nurse or counselor. (People often fit their Expressions 
into a broader spectrum of occupations than you might expect, 
though, because they concentrate on that part of the work 
which is emphasized by their Expressions. That same 6 Expres¬ 
sion may be used by an administrator running a small private 
school, a bookkeeper in a clinic, or the head of the production 
department in an engineering office. These people are express¬ 
ing the helpfulness and conscientiousness, the balancing and 
adjusting abilities, the responsibility capabilities of the 6 in the 
performance of their jobs. The job description doesn’t stress the 
6 talents as much as the job description for the teacher, nurse or 
counselor, but the administrator, bookkeeper and production 
head choose to stress their 6 abilities in carrying out their work. 
It’s usually more helpful to describe a person’s abilities in a 
reading, rather than to list vocations which seem to fit the 
Expression.) 

Along with these abilities, the Expression also describes the 
kinds of attitudes which are usually to be found with these tal¬ 
ents. These attitudes are usually as visible as the abilities. 


THE EXPRESSION IS DERIVED BY FINDING THE 
SUM OF THE NUMBER VALUES OF ALL THE LETTERS 
IN EACH NAME, REDUCING THIS SUM TO A SINGLE 
DIGIT OR MASTER NUMBER, THEN ADDING THE 
SUMS OF ALL THE NAMES TOGETHER AND REDUC¬ 
ING THAT TOTAL TO A SINGLE DIGIT OR MASTER 
NUMBER. 

1. Consult the table on page 18 to find the numerical value of 
each letter. Place this numerical value below each letter: 

LOUISE KAREN CASPER 
363915 21955 311759 

2. - Add the numbers in each name together. Reduce this sum to 
a single digit or master number. 






CHAPTER 4: THE EXPRESSION 


33 


LOUISE 3 + 6 + 3 + 9+1 + 5 = 27 

= 2 + 7 = 9 

KAREN 2 + 1 + 9 + 5 + 5 = 22 

(Master number, not reduced) 

CASPER 3+1 + 1 + 7 + 5 + 9=26 

= 2 + 6 = 8 

3. Add the numbers obtained for each name together. Reduce 


this sum to a single digit or master number: 


9 + 22 + 8 = 39 

= 3 + 9 = 12 
= 1 + 2 = 3 

The Expression is 3 


4. On a numerology chart, the calculation would look like this: 
(The numbers in parentheses represent subtotals which are fur¬ 
ther reduced.) 

LOUISE KAREN CASPER 
363915 21955 311759 


(27) 9 + 22 + (26) 8 

= 39 
= 12 

= 3 Expression 

Here are a few additional examples: 


HOWARD JOSEPH SNYDER 

8 6 5 1 94 .1 6 1 5 7-8 1 57459 


(33) 6 + (28) (10) 1 + (31) 4 

= 11 Expression 

SYLVIA ANNE PASETTA 
173491 1555 7115221 



(25) 7 + (16) 7 + (19) 1 = 15 

= 6 Expression 


Always add the numbers of each name separately, then add 
these totals together. If you add all the numbers of all the 
names all together at once, you may end up with a master 
number that doesn’t apply or lose a master number that should 
apply. 


Turn to chart 3: expression on page 250. Here you’ll find 
discussions of the different Expressions. 


Chart 3: The 
Expression 







Abilities 


Positive 

attitudes, 

negative 

attitudes 


Sample 

reading 


PART II: THE CORE 


The upper horizontal division of this chart, labeled “Abilities,” 
describes the capabilities and talents possessed by each Expres¬ 
sion. Some of these may be latent, but most of them are oper¬ 
ating and are apparent. 


The middle and lower divisions of the chart, labeled “Posi¬ 
tive Attitudes” and “Negative Attitudes,” describe the har¬ 
monious and discordant extremes of all the Expressions. For 
example, a person with a 1 Expression may be ambitious and 
determined (positive attitude) or too aggressive (negative atti¬ 
tude). A person with a 4 Expression may be systematic and 
orderly (positive attitude) or have a rigid, stubborn approach 
(negative attitude). Each of these examples expresses the ex¬ 
tremes of one particular attitude. Although the chart lists the 
extremes for ease in syntheses to be developed, begin to be 
aware of the continuums which are present. The knowledge of 
the continuums will help as you become more experienced in 
delineating. 

Later, when we synthesize all four of the elements of the 
core, we will often be able to see which attitudes a person is 
more likely to express, and, sometimes, whether the positive or 
negative side is expressed. Since the delineation describes atti¬ 
tudes in effect throughout a person’s life, we must be aware 
that, at different periods in life a person may express different 
parts of the range of a particular attitude. A person with a 3 
Expression may, when young, be something of a dilettante in 
scattering his forces (negative attitude). As he matures, he may 
express the joy of living instead, colored with optimism and en¬ 
thusiasm (positive attitude). It’s also possible that he may start 
out in life expressing the joy of living and regress to something 
of a dilettante. 

We cannot know precisely at what point a person will be 
along the range of a particular attitude at any specific time, but 
the synthesis will clarify the basic attitudes and the probable 
thrust of that attitude. The art of delineation will allow us to 
read the Expression for any time in a person’s life and provide 
an interpretation most useful to the person at the time of the 
reading. 


The reading of the Expression, without any additional in¬ 
formation, provides some awareness of a person’s abilities. The 
information is accurate, as far as it goes, but must be worded 
to allow for the changes which are likely to take place as we 
combine the Expression with the other elements. 




CHAPTER 4: THE EXPRESSION 


35 


A sample reading might read as follows: 

You probably have most of the following 
abilities:_ 


Fill in with 

“Abilities” 

information. 


When you put your best foot forward, 
you’re likely to _ 


At times, like all of us, you’re not always 
expressing your positive potential. At these 
times, you’re likely to be_ 


Fill in with 
“Positive 
Attitudes” 
information. 

Fill in the 
“Negative 
Attitudes” 
information. 


The abilities and attitudes described by the Expression 
derived from your birthname are likely to be with you all your 
life. When your name changes—by marriage, by deleting your 
middle name, by using a nickname—the given Expression re¬ 
mains but the abilities and attitudes may be modified by the 
Expression derived from the new name. (We’ll discuss all the 
ramifications of name changes later on in Volume 2, Chapter 
24.) The basic talents are usually there for the whole life, 
though sometimes overlaid by new and different emphases and 
additions. " r 
















CHAPTER 5: THE SOUL URGE 


37 


CHAPTER 5 


THE THIRD ELEMENT 
OF THE CORE: 

THE SOUL URGE 


THE SOUL URGE IS A PERSON’S INNER MOTIVA¬ 
TION, WHAT HE WANTS TO BE, TO HAVE AND TO DO. 
The Soul Urge is third in importance of the four core elements. 

The Soul Urge (sometimes known as the Heart’s Desire, the 
Motivation or the Ideality) is concerned with deep inner long¬ 
ings. These longings express those matters which seem most 
important to the person, and these important matters are influ¬ 
ential in determining the person’s point of view, the principles 
on which he acts, his general approach. 

Occasionally, when the Soul Urge is harmonious with other 
parts of the core, it may be visible so that others are aware of it. 
For most people, the Soul Urge is below the surface, rarely ex¬ 
pressed openly. Many people seem almost unaware of their 
own Soul Urge, although they can readily identify with it when 
it is described. To the outside observer, the delineation of the 
Soul Urge often serves as a key to an understanding of a person, 
clarifying the person’s actions and approaches in a most reveal¬ 
ing way. 

As we proceed along the broad channel of the Life Path, we 
are guided by the motivations of the Soul Urge. If our long¬ 
ings are easy to satisfy within our own broad channel, we are 
apt to benefit from the available possibilities. If we want some¬ 
thing which we perceive as unavailable on our channel, or 


Definition 



38 


PART II: THE CORE 


Calculation 


- ..i- . > 


more available on another channel, we may be subject to con¬ 
flict in deciding on which channel we choose to operate. When 
we synthesize the core elements, we will become familiar 
with how these disparate elements may be joined for positive 
development. 


THE SOUL URGE IS DERIVED BY FINDING THE SUM 
OF THE NUMBER VALUES OF THE VOWELS IN EACH 
NAME, REDUCING THIS SUM TO A SINGLE DIGIT OR 
MASTER NUMBER, THEN ADDING THE SUMS OF ALL 
THE NAMES TOGETHER AND REDUCING THAT TO¬ 
TAL TO A SINGLE DIGIT OR MASTER NUMBER. 

There is at least one vowel in every syllable. 

A, E, I, O, U are always vowels. Their value, from the table on 
page 18, is: 

A = 1 
E = 5 
I = 9 
0=6 
U = 3 

Y is sometimes a vowel. Its value is 7. Y is a vowel when there is 
no other vowel in a syllable. 

Example: Yvonne, Sylvia, Larry 

Y is a vowel when it is preceded by A, E, I, O, U and sounded 
as one sound. 

Example: Hayden, Doyle, Raymond 

W is sometimes a vowel. Its value is 5. W is a vowel when it is 
preceded by A, E, I, O, U and sounded as one sound. 

Example: Bradshaw, Matthew, Lowell 


1. Place the numerical value of each vowel above the vowel: 

1 3 5 9 6 

ARTHUR TRENT WILSON 

2. Add the numbers in each name together. Reduce this sum to 
a single digit or master number. 




CHAPTER 5: THE SOUL URGE 


39 


ARTHUR 1+3=4 

TRENT = 5 

WILSON 9 + 6 = 15 

= 1 + 5 = 6 

3. Add the numbers obtained for each name together. Reduce 
this sum to a single digit or master number. 

4 + 5 + 6 = 15 

= 1 + 5 = 6 
The Soul Urge is 6 

4. On a numerology chart, the calculation would look like this: 
(The number in parentheses represents a subtotal which is fur¬ 
ther reduced.) 

4 5 (15) 6 = 15 = 6 Soul Urge 

1 3 5 9 6 

ARTHUR TRENT WILSON 

Here are a few additional examples: 

(16) 7 + 11 + 8 = 26 = 8 Soul Urge 

6 5 5 1 91 3 5 

1.0 WELL ADRIAN HUNTER 

(14) 5 + (17) 8 + 9 22 Soul Urge 

167 7 91 63 1 ” 

CAROLYNSYLVIA YOUNG 

Always add the numbers of the vowels of each name sepa¬ 
rately, then add these totals together. If you add the vowels of 
all the names together, you may end up with a master number 
that doesn’t apply or lose a master number that should apply. 
For instance, in the name Carolyn Sylvia Young above, if the 
vowels are added together, you get 1 + 6+ 7 + 7 + 9 + 1 
+ 6 + 3 = 40 = 4 Soul Urge, and the 22 Master Number has 
been lost. 


chart 4: the soul urge, on page 264, discusses the different 
Soul Urges. 

The upper horizontal division of this chart, labeled 
“Motives,” describes the person’s inner motivation. The middle 
and lower divisions of the chart, labeled “Positive Attitudes” 
and “Negative Attitudes,” describe the most harmonious and 
most discordant extremes of the attitudes just as Chart 3 did for 
the Expression. 


Chart 4: The 
Soul Urge 





40 


PART II: THE CORE 


Sample The reading of the Soul Urge without any additional infor- 
reading mation provides some awareness of the person’s inner motiva¬ 
tion. The information is accurate, as far as it goes, but must be 
expressed to allow for the modifications which will take place 
when the synthesis of the core elements proceeds. 


A sample reading might read as follows: 
You are apt to want_ 


You are probably 


but you can also be 


Fill in with 

“Motives” 

information. 

Fill in with 
“Positive 
Attitudes” 
information. 

Fill in with 
“Negative 
Attitudes” 
information. 


The motivations and attitudes described by the Soul Urge 
derived from your birthname are with you all your life. When a 
person changes his name, the primary motivations and at¬ 
titudes remain, but are often modified by new and different 
emphases derived from the Soul Urge of the new name. (We’ll 
discuss the effect of name changes in Volume 2, Chapter 24.) 


CHAPTER 6: THE BIRTHDAY 


41 


CHAPTER 6 


THE FOURTH ELEMENT 
OF THE CORE: 

THE BIRTHDAY 


THE BIRTHDAY IS A SUB-LESSON TO BE LEARNED 
IN THIS LIFE, A SUB-FOCUS ON THE LIFE PATH. The 
Birthday is fourth in importance of the four core elements. 

The Birthday is one of the numbers added together to derive 
the Life Path—of \ in numerology terms, the Birthday is one of 
the numbers behind the Life Path. Later on, we will see that 
all the numbers behind the Life Path, Expression and Soul Urge 
are sub-influences. The Birthday is the only sub-influence 
important enough to be part of the core. 


THE BIRTHDAY IS DERIVED BY REDUCING THE DAY 
OF BIRTH TO A SINGLE DIGIT OR MASTER NUMBER. 

If you’re born on the 1st of any month, for instance, your 
Birthday is 1; on the 16th, your Birthday is 7 (1 + 6 = 7); on 
the 23rd, your Birthday is 5 (2 + 3 = 5). 


In Chapter 3, we visualized each Life Path as a broad chan¬ 
nel or highway. Now, visualize the highway of each Life Path 
divided into eleven lanes, one for each Birthday: 1 through 9, 
plus the master numbers 11 and 22. Everyone on the particular 


Definition 


Calculation 


Chart 5: 

The Birthday 





42 


PART 11: THE CORE 


highway is learning the same major lessons, but the lane occu¬ 
pied by each person presents an additional sub-lesson modify¬ 
ing the main focus of the Life Path. 

If we look at the 3 lane, for example, we see it further subdi¬ 
vided into four divisions, one representing a day of birth on the 
3rd, one a day of birth on the 12th (1 + 2 = 3), one a day of 
birth on the 21st (2+1 = 3), and one a day of birth on the 
30th (3 + 0 = 3). These four all have the same sub-lesson of 
3, but each has slightly different traits and attitudes because of 
the different numbers behind the sub-lesson number. 

The highway of each Life Path, then, is actually divided into 
31 divisions, each representing the sub-focus, traits and atti¬ 
tudes determined by the day of the month on which a person is 
born. 

chart 5: the birthday, on page 278, provides readings for 
each of the Birthdays. 

The sub-lessons are the keywords related to the single digit or 
master number of each Birthday and are found at the top of 
each page of the chart adjacent to the large number. The atti¬ 
tudes and abilities for each day of birth are listed under the 
appropriate day of the month. 

Let’s, for example, look at the different numbers on the 3 
Birthday page. 

A birthday on the 3rd of any month: 

Sub-lesson: Expression. Joy of living. 

Emphasis on 3 attitudes and abilities only. 

No sub-emphasis on other energies. 

A birthday on the 12th of any month: 

Sub-lesson: Expression. Joy of living. 

Emphasis on 3 attitudes and abilities. 

Sub-emphasis on 1 and 2 attitudes and abilities (1 and 2 
are the numbers behind the birthday of 12). 

A birthday on the 21st of any month: 

Sub-lesson: Expression. Joy of living. 

Emphasis on 3 attitudes and abilities. 

Sub-emphasis on 2 and 1 attitudes (2 and 1 are num¬ 
bers behind the birthday of 21). 

A birthday on the 30th of any month: 

Sub-lesson: Expression. Joy of living. 

Emphasis on 3 attitudes and abilities. Similar to 3 Birth¬ 
day but the energy is more strongly expressed here. 
(30 is a higher octave of 3, meaning that the 3 traits 
are intensified. The “good conversationalist” ability 


CHAPTER 6 ; THE BIRTHDAY 


43 


of the 3, for instance, is replaced by “excellent con¬ 
versationalist” of the 30; the “affectionate and loving” 
3 is replaced by the “very affectionate and loving” 30. 
20 is, similarly, a higher octave of 2, and 10 a higher 
octave of 1.) 

No sub-emphasis on other energies. 

As you look over Chart 5, you’ll see that several days show 
a special emphasis. The 11th is a master number with traits 
relating not only to 11 but also to its reduced level 2. The 22nd 
is a master number with traits relating not only to 22 but also to 
its reduced level 4. (In Chapter 8, we’ll discuss the master 
numbers in detail.) The 13th, 14th, 16th, and 19th are birth¬ 
days related to karmic influences, and there’s a negative em¬ 
phasis here. (In Chapter 11, we’ll discuss the karmic influences 
in detail.) 


The sub-lesson of the Birthday is of much less importance Relative 
than the major lesson of the Life Path. The sub-focus should be importance 
considered primarily as an influence on the central focus. A 6 
Life Path is always focused on balance, responsibility and love, 
for instance, but a 4 Birthday would assist the balance and re¬ 
sponsibility part of the main lesson with a sub-lesson of limita¬ 
tion, order and service, while a 5 Birthday is apt to hinder the 
main lesson with the 5’s focus on constructive freedom. 


The reading for the Birthday would be used as an adjunct to 
the reading for the Life Path. A sample reading might be as 
follows: 

Your major lesson of_ Complete with Life 

_is modified by Path keywords. 


a minor lesson of. 


Here are some of the attitudes and 
traits you may express:_ 


Complete with 
Birthday keywords. 

Complete with 
information derived 
from the Birthday 
description. 


Sample 

reading 


Like the Life Path, the Birthday is fixed and unchangeable. 
The influence of the subTocus is sure to be felt, no matter how 
the traits involved are used or allowed to remain latent. 












CHAPTER 7: CORE SYNTHESIS 


45 


CHAPTER 7 

SYNTHESIS OF THE 
CORE ELEMENTS 


The core, as we mentioned previously, is the major determi¬ 
nant in a character delineation. In this chapter, we’ll first ex¬ 
amine the principles involved in synthesizing the elements into 
the core. Then we’ll proceed, step-by-step, in the delineation of 
a complete core synthesis, clarifying the way in which each 
portion of the synthesis is developed using the above principles. 
Finally, we’ll explore some of the assumptions underlying these 
guiding principles. 


Four simple principles are involved in core synthesis: 

1. The relative power of the elements. 

2. The modifying abilities of the elements. 

3. The harmony or discord among the elements. 

4. The effectiveness of the combined elements. 

We’ll explore each of these principles, then put them to work. 


1. The Relative Power of the Core Elements 

Here’s a diagram of the core, showing the relations of the 
elements: 


Principles 
of core 
synthesis 


Relative 

power 





46 


PART II: THE CORE 




It’s apparent that each core element has a different size, rep¬ 
resenting their different relative powers. The Life Path has the 
most power. It provides approximately fifty percent of the 
power of the core. The Expression is responsible for about thir¬ 
ty percent of the power while the Soul Urge provides only 
about twenty percent. The force of the Life Path is approxi¬ 
mately equal to the forces of the Expression and Soul Urge com¬ 
bined. The Birthday strength is far less than the other elements. 
It represents about a fifth the power of the Life Path (1/5 x 50) 
or ten percent of the strength of the core. The Birthday, then, is 
only about a third as strong as the Expression and about half as 
strong as the Soul Urge. (As the diagram shows, the Birthday is 
always treated as an integral part of the Life Path.) 


Perhaps this drawing shows the relative power of the core 
elements even more dramatically: 


Birthday 
(20% of 
Life Path 
= 10% of 
Core) 

Life Path Expression Soul Urge 
50 % 30 % 20 % 

(includes 
Birthday) 


Vb 


= Core 


The synthesis, of course, must reflect the relative power of 
the elements. For instance, a core with a 3 Life Path and a 
22 Soul Urge would produce an emphasis on the 3. Half the 
strength of the core would be related to the 3 potential and only 
about one-fifth of the strength to the 22, so that the 3 potential 
would govern. If the situation was reversed, with a 22 Life 
Path and a 3 Soul Urge, the emphasis would, of course, shift to 
the 22 potential. 

In numerology terms, the relative power is expressed in rela¬ 
tion to the position of the number. A number is most powerful 
in the Life Path position, less powerful in the Expression posi¬ 
tion, and weaker yet in the Soul Urge position. The position of 
the number, therefore, determines how strong an influence it 
represents in the core. The relative power is expressed in a core 
. delineation by devoting an amount of writing (or speaking) to 
each element proportional to the power of that element. 









CHAPTER 7: CORE SYNTHESIS 


47 


2. The Modifying Abilities of the Elements 

Looking back at the first core diagram, on page 46, the over¬ 
lapping of the circles representing the elements indicates that 
the potentials of the elements modify or alter the potentials of 
the other elements. Referring to the diagram: 

The Life Path is modified by the Expression, Soul Urge 
and Birthday. 

The Expression is modified by the Life Path and Soul 
Urge. 

The Soul Urge is modified by the Life Path and Expres¬ 
sion. 

The Birthday modifies the Life Path. 

The core relations translate into relations in a person’s life. 
The central focus of a life, for instance, is altered by the 
person’s abilities and motivations, as well as by his sub-focus. 
This is just another way of expressing the other core elements 
acting on the Life Path. The other elements can be expressed in 
a similar manner. 

How do we determine how the elements are altered? Let’s 
look to the other two principles. 


3. The Harmony or Discord Among the Elements 

Suppose you have two core elements, one with a 6 potential, 
the other with a 2 potential. The 6 force is involved with han¬ 
dling responsibility, creating balance, providing love and har¬ 
mony, sympathy and understanding. The 2 energy is concerned 
with adaptability, consideration, relating and cooperating with 
others. The forces of the 6 and 2 work well together with mu¬ 
tually beneficial energies. The 6 potential and the 2 potential 
are, in general, a harmonious combination. 

What happens when we deal with a combination of 6 and 7 
energies? The 6 force is, as before, involved with caring for 
others, expressing love and friendship, working to balance and 
harmonize relations. The 7 force is introspective, focused on 
studying, learning, analyzing, developing wisdom and spiritual 
awareness. Can you see that the concerns of the 6 involve rela¬ 
tions with others, usually in everyday, down-to-earth situa¬ 
tions, while the 7 grows inwardly, quietly, possibly spiritually, 
somewhat apart from practical affairs? These two forces are 
traveling in different directions, working toward different 
goals. The 6 potential and the 7 potential are, in general, a dis¬ 
cordant combination. 

In the same way, we can analyze the relations between all 


Modifying 

abilities 


Harmony 
or discord 








48 


PART II: THE CORE 


the combinations of potentials. We’ll find, though, that the 
harmony or discord of many combinations are far less obvious 
than the examples just shown. 

Look, for example, at a blending of a 1 potential with a 5 po¬ 
tential. The 1 is working to acknowledge its individuality, to 
express its independence, to attain as a leader or creator, while 
the 5, with many talents and many opportunities, is developing 
the constructive use of freedom. If the 1 has advanced to the 
point of attainment as a director or pioneer and can fuse this 
energy with the 5 potential to harness the available talents and 
opportunities, there can be an extremely harmonious combina¬ 
tion. But suppose, instead, that the 1 is struggling just to be¬ 
come independent while the 5 is being overwhelmed by the 
change and variety in his life, the constant flux in the environ¬ 
ment. The attempted stability of the 1 is at odds with the em¬ 
phasis on the instability of the 5—a very discordant merger. 

The 1-5 combination is, therefore, sometimes harmonious 
and sometimes discordant. That seems somewhat harder to 
handle than our first examples. In reconsidering that harmon¬ 
ious 6-2 combination, suppose the 6 potential is so responsible 
for family and friends that his own needs are virtually sub¬ 
merged while the 2 force is concentrating on helping everyone 
cooperate, again to the exclusion of his own needs. There’s a 
good chance that the over-responsible 6 fused with the over- 
zealous 2 will be reduced to a doormat in the name of helping 
others, producing a discordant blending rather than the pre¬ 
vious harmony. 

The fact is that the combination of any two potentials can 
produce a harmonious or a discordant resultant. This corrob¬ 
orates my own experiences with numbers—and most people’s 
experiences with other people. As you work with the numbers, 
I expect you’ll draw the same conclusion. This is quite a com¬ 
plex situation! An understanding of this complexity is a vital 
link in producing delineations. I’ve dealt with this matter at 
length so you won’t be apt to forget it or neglect it or attempt to 
reduce it to some simple formula when it is, in reality, sprawl¬ 
ing and untidy. 

Let’s accept that either harmony or discord can be produced 
by combining any two energies. But, let’s also recognize that a 
given combination USUALLY produces one or the other. Some 
fusions are more consistent than others. The 6-2 combination is 
almost always harmonious, and so is 3-6. The 6-7 combination 
is almost always discordant, and so are 4-5 and 8-11. The 1-5 
combination is harder to predict. So are 6-9 and 2-3. 

For our beginning syntheses, we’ll assume that the usual re¬ 
sultant is the only resultant. We can produce a reasonably good 
delineation with that assumption, although we can delineate a 



CHAPTER 7 : CORE SYNTHESIS 


49 


more meaningful reading (as we will later on) by accepting the 
complexity which exists. 


Turn to chart 6: the aspects, on page 292, and you’ll find 
the usual resultants of all the combinations. The word “usually” 
is stressed, as you can see, and most combinations are noted as 
USUALLY harmonious or USUALLY discordant. There’s one 
other resultant shown: The combinations of identical numbers, 
l-l, 2-2, 3-3, are labeled USUALLY very discordant. Chapter 9 
is devoted to this special case. Hold off on delineations with 
these combinations until after we’ve developed the general 
case. 

Some of the combinations or aspects in Chart 6 show the op¬ 
posite resultant in parentheses below the usual resultant. Be¬ 
come familiar with these possibilities as you begin working on 
delineations. 

Chart 6 is different than any other chart in the book. It’s the 
only chart which compares a combination of potentials. But, as 
you use it, remember that these resultants and the discussions 
which follow them are meant primarily to assist you in the be¬ 
ginning. These comparisons are based on my experience with 
numbers, and the discussions are limited by the available space. 
But there’s nothing sacred about the discussions. Your expe¬ 
rience in delineation will provide you with your own resultants 
and reasons. Probably, many of your conclusions will be similar 
to mine, but if you see the world and the resultants differently, 
and you are gaining and giving insight with your readings, 
then, by all means, follow your own instincts. 

It might seem that the best core would be one where all the 
combinations of elements are harmonious. When this does oc¬ 
cur, the lack of discord may make for a comparatively comfor¬ 
table use of the energies involved, but may tend to inhibit 
growth and development. 

I rarely think of “best” or “worst” in the context of numer¬ 
ology. Each life is developed from its own potentials and each 
of us can deal only with the potentials we possess. You can only 
express, at best, the highest level of your own potentials. It will 
not benefit you to compare yourself (or anyone else) with 
others. People have their own potentials and are operating only 
within those contexts. 

We have been dealing with the harmony or discord of com¬ 
bined energies. Harmonious energies do not guarantee harmon¬ 
ious lives, just as discordant energies do not necessarily produce 
discordant lives. Along with the energies a person possesses, he 
still has the free will to determine how to use these forces, and 


Chart 6: 
The Aspects 




50 


PART 11: THE CORE 


Effectiveness 


he operates in an environment which exerts its own effect. Free 
will and environment play a large part in determining the har¬ 
mony or discordance of lives, as we’ll see when we discuss these 
important factors at the end of this chapter. 


4. The Effectiveness of the Combined Elements 

Imagine that Bertha and Eddie are contemplating starting a 
business together. Bertha is full of creative ideas and Eddie is a 
superb organizer, capable of dealing with people, money and 
all the other details that are involved in a business. Clearly, 
these two people have harmonious energies. 

Eddie is very dynamic. He rises at dawn and is energetic un¬ 
til late at night, demanding a great deal quickly and efficiently 
from himself and his associates. Bertha is a different type—very 
quiet and contemplative. She may spend weeks alone, honing 
an idea to perfection. She doesn’t like to be interrupted when 
she is working creatively—she wants to complete her project 
before discussing it with others. The harmony of her creativity 
and his organizational abilities will be severely tested by the ef¬ 
fectiveness (or in this case, ineffectiveness) of their combined 
energies. 

Harmony or discord, then, is only one way of looking at a 
combination of elements, and effectiveness, or workability, is 
another. In a character delineation, effectiveness is a measure 
of the relative levels of the opportunities (the Life Path), the 
abilities (the Expression) and the motivations (the Soul Urge). 
By determining the effectiveness, you can recognize whether a 
person possesses enough abilities and motivations to take ad¬ 
vantage of his opportunities, and enough motivation to use his 
abilities. (The Birthday is treated as part of the Life Path and is 
not compared in effectiveness with the other elements.) 

Think of the Life Path as a pitcher, with the size of the pitch¬ 
er determined by the number of the Life Path. A 1 Life Path is 
the smallest pitcher, a 2 somewhat larger, a 22 the largest of 
all. Imagine filling the pitcher with a liquid representing the 
Expression. A 1 Expression would represent just a little bit of 
liquid while 22 would portray the largest quantity of liquid. 

Consider a subject with a 22 Life Path and a 1 Expression. 
We have then, in the analogy, a large pitcher with almost noth¬ 
ing in it. The subject will be hard pressed to use his abilities to 
take advantage of the substantial opportunities which are pres¬ 
ent. This is a combination lacking in effectiveness. 

Looking at the other extreme, we have a similar ineffective 
blend. If we attempt to fill a 1 Life Path pitcher with 22 Ex¬ 
pression liquid, we have a small, full pitcher with most of the 




CHAPTER 7: CORE SYNTHESIS 


51 


liquid wasted. A subject with this combination would have dif¬ 
ficulty finding suitable opportunities to use his abilities. 

The most effective combination is represented by a comfor¬ 
tably filled pitcher. A 5 Life Path with a 3 or 4 Expression is ef¬ 
fective, as is a 6 Life Path with a 7 or 8 Expression. Again, we’ll 
leave the combination where the elements are the same number 
to Chapter 9. 

When we imagine the Life Path as the pitcher with the Soul 
Urge the liquid, we can determine the effectiveness of the op¬ 
portunities combined with the motivations. Similarly, the re¬ 
lation between motivation and ability uses the Expression as 
pitcher with the Soul Urge as liquid. 

Let’s examine the effectiveness of the different combinations. 
The combinations are listed by the number of spaces between 
the elements under consideration. 

a. If both elements are 9 or below, subtract the lower from the 
higher. 

For example, with an 8 Life Path and a 5 Soul Urge, there 
are 3 spaces (8 minus 5) between the elements. Or, with a 2 
Expression and a 9 Soul Urge, there are 7 (9 minus 2) spaces 
between. 

b. If either or both elements are 11 or 22, assume one space 
between 9 and 11, and one space again between 11 and 22. 

With a 6 Expression and an 11 Soul Urge: < 

3+1 =4 spaces between 6 and 11 

6 7 8 <TTl 

.. .*r ; 

With a 4 Life Path and a 22 Expression: 

5 +1+1 =7 spaces between 4 and 22 

4 5 6 7 8 9 ir~22 


TABLE OF EFFECTIVENESS 

LIFE PATH/EXPRESSION 


Table of 
Effectiveness 


LIFE PATH HIGHER THAN THE EXPRESSION BY 6 
OR MORE SPACES (Opportunities substantially outweigh 
abilities.) 

You will have to work to find just the right environment to 
make use of your natural talents. It may be frustrating when 
some of these aptitudes don’t mesh with your opportunities in 



52 


PART II: THE CORE 


the ways you expect or aren’t appreciated in circumstances 
which seem appropriate to you. You may be impatient. Your 
growth and development, no matter how fast, is apt to proceed 
too slowly for your own satisfaction. Learn to pursue your 
main lesson at the natural pace that presents itself. 

(When the Life Path is higher than the Expression by 7 or more 
spaces, the ineffectiveness of the combination, with its atten¬ 
dant frustrations and disappointments, will form a strong part 
of the subject’s core.) 

LIFE PATH HIGHER THAN THE EXPRESSION BY 3, 4 OR 
5 SPACES (Opportunities outweigh abilities.) 

The opportunities are there, but you will have to work to take 
advantage of them. You must stretch your talents to meet your 
experiences. The expansion of your natural capabilities can 
lead to growth, to the realization of higher conditions of life for 
yourself. Expend time and effort appraising your strengths and 
weaknesses. A realistic awareness and acceptance of these po¬ 
tentials will be significant in your positive development. Be 
especially realistic in examining the available opportunities. 

LIFE PATH HIGHER OR LOWER THAN THE EXPRES¬ 
SION BY 1 OR 2 SPACES (Effective balance of opportunities 
and abilities.) 

You have the potential to take advantage of the opportunities 
presented with relative ease, to make the most of the expe¬ 
riences which come your way. Your natural abilities will prob¬ 
ably find ample field for expression. The environment will 
allow your talents to be displayed and appreciated. As your 
capabilities find the opportunities to expand to meet their po¬ 
tential, your development will progress in a manner which may 
bring you much satisfaction. 

LIFE PATH LOWER THAN THE EXPRESSION BY 3, 4 OR 
5 SPACES (Abilities outweigh opportunities.) 

The opportunities are present, but not as many as you would 
like, and often in an unclear or deceptive form. Learn to eval¬ 
uate your opportunities and to perceive when more is promised 
than can be delivered. If you have deceived yourself or been 
deceived, don’t continue but move to another lead. You will 
probably have to develop your talents primarily on your own— 
the people and surroundings will only rarely provide help. 
Develop faith in your own capabilities rather than expecting 
aid from outside yourself. Have patience even though your de¬ 
velopment proceeds more slowly than you would prefer. 






CHAPTER 7: CORE SYNTHESIS 


53 


LIFE PATH LOWER THAN THE EXPRESSION BY 6 OR 
MORE SPACES (Abilities substantially outweigh opportun¬ 
ities.) 

You will have to study your environment with care to find op¬ 
portunities to take advantage of your natural talents. The peo¬ 
ple and situations you meet often don’t present the potential for 
growth you are seeking. Often, the development you are ex¬ 
pecting does not materialize, even though you have performed 
well. It may be frustrating to be aware of your capabilities 
and yet have to work so hard to find a satisfactory path for 
their use. Learn not to demand more of the world around you 
than is realistically there. Pursue your main lesson at the 
natural pace that presents itself. 

(When the Life Path is lower than the Expression by 7 or more 
spaces, the ineffectiveness of the combination, with its atten¬ 
dant frustrations and disappointments, will form a strong part 
of the subject’s core.) 

LIFE PATH/SOUL URGE 

LIFE PATH HIGHER THAN THE SOUL URGE BY 6 OR 
MORE SPACES (Opportunities substantially outweigh moti¬ 
vations.) 

Although you may or may not have a clear understanding of 
your inner needs, these needs are rarely strong enough to act as 
your primary motivating force. .Your reactions to the people 
and situations in which you come in contact will direct the 
course of your development to a greater extent than your need 
to fulfil your inner urges. Because these experiences are not an 
integral part of you, you may find yourself driven by motiva¬ 
tions which are often unclear to you and do not necessarily 
bring the satisfaction of growth. 

(When the Life Path is higher than the Soul Urge by 7 or more 
spaces, the ineffectiveness of the combination, with its compul¬ 
sive motivation based on experience, will form a strong part of 
the subject’s core.) 

LIFE PATH HIGHER THAN THE SOUL URGE BY 3, 4 OR 
5 SPACES (Opportunities outweigh motivations.) 

Although you are able to recognize your opportunities, you 
don’t always feel the need to pursue them. Sometimes, you do 
follow your inner urges and take advantage of the possibilities. 
But, probably just about as often, you develop the experience 
at hand and follow where the experiences lead. You may have 
difficulty understanding or dealing with people pushed by 





54 


PART II: THE CORE 


strong inner needs or desirous of pushing you to advance your¬ 
self. Most of the time, you are likely to be content with the nat¬ 
ural pace of your development. 

LIFE PATH HIGHER OR LOWER THAN THE SOUL 
URGE BY 1 OR 2 SPACES (Effective balance of opportunities 
and motivations.) 

You are well motivated to recognize and take advantage of 
your opportunities with relative ease. You make the most of the 
experiences which come your way. You are usually on the look¬ 
out for ways to best develop yourself, ways to satisfy your inner 
desires. Your environment probably reinforces your motiva¬ 
tions to allow them full play. You are apt to find much growth 
in the satisfaction of your inner urges. 

LIFE PATH LOWER THAN THE SOUL URGE BY 3, 4 OR 5 
SPACES (Motivations outweigh opportunities.) 

Although you are able to recognize your opportunities, you find 
somewhat fewer possibilities than you would like to advance 
your inner development. The experiences at hand, while not 
necessarily presenting opportunities to fulfill your inner needs, 
are apt to act as a secondary motivating force. Make the most 
of these experiences. Learn to accept the natural pace of your 
development. 

LIFE PATH LOWER THAN THE SOUL URGE BY 6 OR 
MORE SPACES (Motivations substantially outweigh oppor¬ 
tunities.) 

Although you have a strong sense of your inner needs, you may 
have to search diligently to satisfy these desires. Your reactions 
to the people and situations in which you come in contact will 
direct the course of your development to a greater extent than 
the available opportunities. Use the opportunities when they 
appear. Make the most of the experience when the opportun¬ 
ities you would like are not available. Your development is like¬ 
ly to proceed more slowly than you would like. Be patient and 
grow at the natural pace which you find. 

(When the Life Path is lower than the Soul Urge by 7 or more 
spaces, the ineffectiveness of the combination, with its atten¬ 
dant frustrations, will form a strong part of the subject’s core.) 

EXPRESSION/SOUL URGE 

EXPRESSION HIGHER THAN THE SOUL URGE BY 6 OR 
MORE SPACES (Abilities substantially outweigh motivations.) 






CHAPTER 7: CORE SYNTHESIS 


55 


You are little motivated to put your natural talents into play. 
You are probably not completely aware of your inner urges. 
You’re apt to drift along with only occasional displays of your 
potential abilities. Sometimes, long after your peers have made 
their mark, you will begin to express your motivations. 

(When the Expression is higher than the Soul Urge by 7 or more 
spaces, the ineffectiveness of the combination, with its marked 
lack of motivation,will form a strong part of the subject’s core.) 

EXPRESSION HIGHER THAN THE SOUL URGE BY 3, 4 
OR 5 SPACES (Abilities outweigh motivations.) 

At times you have the incentive to display your talents. Mostly, 
though, you show a good part of your capabilities without feel¬ 
ing a need to push yourself to use more of those natural abil¬ 
ities. Your development may proceed slowly because of the 
small motivational emphasis, but, in general, you are satisfied 
with your growth. 

EXPRESSION HIGHER OR LOWER THAN THE SOUL 
URGE BY 1 OR 2 SPACES (Effective balance of abilities and 
motivations.) 

You are aware of your capabilities and have the incentive to use 
these talents to aid in your own development. You know how to 
fit your capabilities in where you can shine. You are motivated 
to display and develop your abilities with much advantage to 
yourself. ...... . - 

EXPRESSION LOWER THAN THE SOUL URGE BY 3, 4 OR 
5 SPACES (Motivations outweigh abilities.) 

Your motivation sometimes seems to outrun your abilities. Al¬ 
though you have many ideas, your natural talents don’t neces¬ 
sarily help to advance these ideas. Learn to be content with the 
realization that it will take more time than you would prefer to 
fulfill your inner desires. 

EXPRESSION LOWER THAN THE SOUL URGE BY 6 OR 
MORE SPACES (Motivations substantially outweigh abilities.) 

You have many ideas that motivate you, but you often find that 
your natural abilities aren’t of much help in fulfilling your in¬ 
ner desires. Although some of your inner urges may be satisfied, 
you have a tendency to overlook the realized satisfactions and 
push forward where your needs have not been met. Learn to 
accept your natural pace of development. 

(When the Expression is lower than the Soul Urge by 7 or more 






56 


PART II: THE CORE 


spaces, the ineffectiveness of the combination with its im¬ 
balance of motivation, will form a strong part of the subject’s 
core.) 


Now that we’ve explored the principles, we’re ready to pro¬ 
ceed with a core synthesis. We’re going to go slowly, step by 
step, pointing out where the information we use is obtained. 
This first synthesis is apt to appear somewhat fragmented and, 
in part, a trifle repetitious. But remember that right now we’re 
primarily concentrating on the procedure. Later on, we’ll pol¬ 
ish the delineation, remove the repetitions and produce a co¬ 
hesive whole. 


The steps in 
core synthesis 


THE 22 STEPS INVOLVED IN THE CORE SYNTHESIS 

1. Derive the elements of the core. 

2. Express the central focus of the Life Path. 

3. Express the sub-focus of the Birthday. 

4. Express the harmony or discord of the Life 
Path/Birthday aspect. 

5. Determine the harmony or discord of the 
Life Path/Expression and the Life Path/Soul 
Urge aspects. 

6. Express the characteristics of the Life Path. 

7. Express the characteristics of the Birthday. 

8. Discuss the negative expression of the Life 
Path. 


Life Path 
and 

Birthday 
as modi¬ 
fied by 
the other 
elements. 


9. 

10 . 

11 . 

12 . 

13. 

14. 


Express the abilities of the Expression. 
Express the harmony or discord of the Life 
Path/Expression aspect. 

Express the effectiveness of the Life Path/ 
Expression combination. 

Determine the harmony or discord of the 
Expression/Life Path and the Expression/ 
Soul Urge aspects. 

Express the positive attitudes of the Expres¬ 
sion. 

Express the negative attitudes of the Expres¬ 
sion. 


[ Expression 
as modi¬ 
fied by 
the other 
elements. 





CHAPTER 7 : CORE SYNTHESIS 


57 


15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

20 . 

21 . 

22 . 


Express the motives of the Soul Urge. 
Express the harmony or discord of the Life 
Path/Soul Urge aspect. 

Express the effectiveness of the Life Path/ 
Soul Urge combination. 

Express the harmony or discord of the Ex¬ 
pression/Soul Urge aspect. 

Express the effectiveness of the Expression/ 
Soul Urge combination. 

Review the harmony or discord of the Life 
Path/Soul Urge and Expression/Soul Urge 
aspects. 

Express the positive attitudes of the Soul 
Urge. 

Express the negative attitudes of the Soul 
Urge. 


I Soul Urge 
as modi¬ 
fied by 
the other 
elements. 


We’re going to delineate a fictitious subject named Harlan 
William Allen, born on May 12, 1941. Let’s imagine Mr. Allen 
has just walked in and asked us for a reading. We see that he’s 
tall, muscular, nicely dressed, with a handsome face, wavy 
blonde hair and blue eyes. There’s probably little else we can 
determine about him just from a visual inspection. We’ll turn 
to the numbers—and see what we can find. 

In the analysis that follows, we’ll first list each step, followed 
by a general explanation when necessary. We will then indi¬ 
cate, in italics, precisely where the information for Harlan’s 
specific delineation is to be found, and then show that portion 
of his synthesis derived by following the instructions. The ac¬ 
tual delineation will be shown indented. When we complete 
the 22 steps, we should re-read all the indented paragraphs 
which make up Harlan’s total core synthesis. 


STEP 1 

DERIVE THE ELEMENTS OF THE CORE. 

From the calculation instructions in Chapters 3 through 6: 


Typical core 
synthesis, 
step by step 


May 12, 1941 

5+3+6 = 14 = 1 + 4 = 5 Life Path 


12 = 1+2 


= 3 Birthday 




58 


PART II: THE CORE 


2 + (19) 1 + 6 = 9 Soul Urge 

11 9 91 1 5 

HARLAN WILLIAM ALLEN 

8 19315 5 93391 4 13355 

(27) 9 + (34) 7 + (17) 8 = 24 

= 2 + 4 
= 6 Expression 


STEP 2 

EXPRESS THE CENTRAL FOCUS OF THE LIFE PATH. 

The central focus remains the same irrespective of the other 
core elements. 

From Chart 2: The Life Path copy the central focus of the 5 
Life Path shown in the upper horizontal division. 

The central focus of your life is learning the exhila¬ 
ration of the constructive use of freedom. Life is 
full of exciting opportunities for you—there can 
be much variety, change, unusual happenings, un¬ 
usual people, unforeseen adventure. You will find 
that you are capable at almost any task, that you 
are talented in a number of directions. The world 
is your oyster—there are exciting things to do at 
every turn —and that undoubtedly is the difficulty. 
You must learn how to pick and choose, how to 
seek experiences which will be of benefit, how to 
discard those activities that are not working, how 
to profit from every experience. You must learn 
not to waste your time or scatter your forces, not 
to get lost in purely physical delights —food, sex, 
drink or drugs. It can be sheer delight to be a roll¬ 
ing stone, but the frustration of moving from place 
to place, from person to person, from opportunity 
to opportunity may eventually overwhelm the 
delight. 


STEP 3 

EXPRESS THE SUB-FOCUS OF THE BIRTHDAY. 

The Birthday represents only twenty percent of the Life Path. 
Express the relative strengths of the elements by the relative 
amount of space devoted to them. The Birthday sub-focus, 



CHAPTER 7: CORE SYNTHESIS 


59 


then, should be only about one-fifth as long as the Life Path 
focus. In this step, express the keywords of the sub-focus, pos¬ 
sibly with some slight elaboration. 

From chart 5: the birthday use the keywords for the 3 Birth¬ 
day. To elaborate on these keywords, read the central focus of 
the 3 Life Path found in Chart 2. These energies are operating, 
but in a much reduced manner, since the energies are being ap¬ 
plied here to the Birthday rather than the Life Path itself. 

While you're learning how to use freedom, learn 
the joy of expressing yourself. Give of yourself, 
openly, warmly, with delight. Learn, too, to express 
yourself, using your imagination, your artistic abil¬ 
ities, but especially, your ability with words. 

STEP 4 

EXPRESS THE HARMONY OR DISCORD OF THE LIFE 
PATH/BIRTHDAY ASPECT. 

From chart 6: the aspects read the 3-5 aspect—usually har¬ 
monious. The 3-5 aspect, as written, discusses the enhancement 
of the 3 energy by the 5 energy. Since the 5 Life Path is, in our 
example, being modified by the 3 Birthday, rewrite the aspect 
to express the enhancement of the 5 energy by the 3 energy. 

Your ability to give of yourself in social situations 
as well as with creative expression —most likely 
with words—vyill help .in working toward an aware¬ 
ness of the constructive use of freedom. 

STEP 5 

DETERMINE THE HARMONY OR DISCORD OF THE 
LIFE PATH/EXPRESSION AND THE LIFE PATH/SOUL 
URGE ASPECTS. 

Although we have not yet delineated the Expression and the 
Soul Urge, we must, at this point, determine the aspects 
relative to the Life Path because that harmony or discord will 
modify the Life Path characteristics and negative expression ex¬ 
pressed in Steps 6 and 7. 

From chart 6: the aspects: 

The 5 Life Path/6 Expression is usually discordant. The strong 
personal desire of the 5 for freedom conflicts with the potential 
of the 6 for responsibility and concern for others. 

The 5 Life Path 19 Sout Urge is usually discordant. The strong 
personal desire of the 5 for freedom conflicts with the potential 
of the 9 for giving to others. 



60 


PART II: THE CORE 


From chart 3: the expression read the 6 Expression and from 
chart 4: the soul urge read the 9 Soul Urge to become famil¬ 
iar with the reading for these elements. 

In this example, the 5 Life Path energies (along with the Birth¬ 
day energies) represent fifty percent of the core and are opposed 
by the combined 6 Expression and 9 Soul Urge, representing 
the other fifty percent of the core. The 6 and 9 are, in some 
ways, similar energies. The 6 keywords of balance, responsi¬ 
bility and love, may be thought of as expressed on a higher level 
in the 9 keywords of selflessness and humanitarianism. In Har¬ 
lan, the giving qualities of the 6 and 9 will conflict with the 
carefree, self-centered traits of the 5, but will, at the same 
time, tend to alleviate the excesses of the 5 and produce a more 
workable blending than the unmodified 5. 

STEP 6 

EXPRESS THE CHARACTERISTICS OF THE LIFE PATH. 

Modify the Life Path characteristics based on the aspects found 
in Step 5. 

From chart 2: the life path list the characteristics of the 5 
Life Path from the second horizontal division. Study each trait 
to determine if it is affected by the discord with the 6 Expres¬ 
sion and 9 Soul Urge. Modify the characteristic to express this 
effect. 

You are probably versatile and active and can do 
almost anything with superior talent. Although 
you are interested in the new, different or progres¬ 
sive, you usually proceed here with awareness of 
your responsibilities and concern for others. 

The 5-6 and 5-9 aspects tone down the 5 Life Path desire to 
jump into new things. 

You are apt to be clever, with an inborn ability to 
accomplish what you want. You may be a quick 
thinker with a good ability to analyze, although 
that ability isn't always used to further your best 
interests. 

This trait is expressed as indicated on Chart 2. The 5-6 and 5-9 
aspects don't add or subtract. 

Although you sometimes have feelings of restless¬ 
ness, impatience and the desire to try something 
new, these feelings are tempered by your desire 
for balance in your life and those around you as 
well as your concern for giving to others. 




CHAPTER 7: CORE SYNTHESIS 


61 


The 5-6 and 5-9 aspects strongly affect the basic 5 Life Path 
characteristic. The 5 trait still exists, but with substantial modi¬ 
fication. 

Although you love change and enjoy travel and 
adventure, you are also capable of routine tasks 
demanded by your sense of responsibility. At 
times, these traits may produce feelings of con¬ 
flict. 

This trait, like the last, is strongly modified. The balancing ef¬ 
fect of the aspects, as well as the potential conflict, are both 
expressed. 

You are probably a delightful companion and can 
inspire and delight with your enthusiasm. You may 
occasionally have to temper your sudden impulses 
to change direction. 

The 6 and 9 tone down the erratic nature of the 5. 

You are enthusiastic. You tackle each new expe¬ 
rience with renewed enthusiasm. 

This trait is expressed as indicated on Chart 2. The 6 and 9 do 
not add or subtract. 

You tend to express eternal youth. The excitement 
of life keeps you young. 

This trait is expressed as indicated on Chart 2. The 6 and 9 do 
not add or substract. 


STEP 7 

EXPRESS THE CHARACTERISTICS OF THE BIRTHDAY. 

Read the characteristics of the Birthday in chart 5: the birth¬ 
day. Summarize these traits in the delineation. The relative 
strength would be expressed by having the Birthday traits 
about one-fifth as long as the Life Path traits. Express the har¬ 
mony or discord of the Life Path/Birthday aspect. 

From chart 5: the birthday summarize the characteristics of 
the 12 Birthday. Remember, from Step 4, that the 5 Life Path/3 
Birthday is usually harmonious. Modify the traits as required. 

You are probably good with words. You work well, 
using your original strongly creative approach. 
You usually express the joy of living. People are 
likely to see you as cheerful, friendly and sociable, 
a good conversationalist, full of energy. You're 





62 


PART II: THE CORE 


likely to be affectionate, loving and sensitive. Your 
strong feelings may cause occasional rapid ups 
and downs. You usually have many interests, so 
you're likely to scatter your energy. 

The 5-3 aspect would stress strong creativity, noted in the sec¬ 
ond sentence. The 5 has a self-centered side, so that the “very 
affectionate, loving” in Chart 5 is changed to “affectionate, 
loving.” 


STEP 8 

DISCUSS THE NEGATIVE EXPRESSION OF THE LIFE 
PATH. 

The negative expression is determined, to a strong extent, by 
the free will and the environment, but it is also related to the 
aspects the Life Path makes with the Expression and the Soul 
Urge. It’s occasionally possible, just from the numbers, to de¬ 
termine if a person will tend to express negatively (particularly 
in the special cases discussed in Chapter 9). It is important, 
however, to warn the subject of the potential problems inher¬ 
ent in the negative expression. 

From chart 2: the life path read the negative expression of 
the 5 Life Path in the third horizontal division. If this subject 
expresses negatively at all, he will tend to express the second 
negative expression, the denial of the lesson, because of the 
strength of the 6 and 9 discord. There is still the possibility of 
the first negative expression, the exaggeration of the lesson, so 
it, too, must be mentioned. 

When you are hesitant about using your freedom, 
it may seem easier to retreat into a safe and stable 
situation. When you do this, the changes and un¬ 
certainty will still be there, but you will probably 
have difficulty dealing with them. 

There's a chance that you'll be so exhilarated with 
the opportunities before you, that you'll jump 
from thing to thing with maddening speed, lost in 
overindulgence or erratic behavior. This is apt to 
bring much frustration. 

These negative expressions are unproductive. They 
should be avoided in order to proceed construc¬ 
tively with your development. 





CHAPTER 7 : CORE SYNTHESIS 


63 


STEP 9 

EXPRESS THE ABILITIES OF THE EXPRESSION. 

The abilities remain the same irrespective of the other core 
elements. 

From chart 3: the expression copy the abilities of the 6 Ex¬ 
pression shown in the upper horizontal division. 

You are probably a responsible, helpful and con¬ 
scientious person. You have the ability to rectify 
and balance inharmonious situations and you 
would be available to give help and comfort to 
those in need. You would work well where the care 
of the old, young or sick is involved. You probably 
show concern for the betterment of the commun¬ 
ity. In addition, you are apt to possess creative and 
artistic talents. 

Although Harlan possesses these potential abilities, it’s probable 
that all aren’t being used. The delineation should indicate these 
possibilities. 

It's possible that you're not using or developing all 
of these capabilities at this time. Some of your tal¬ 
ents may have been used in the earlier part of your 
life and some may still be latent. Be aware of your 
capabilities, so that you can make use of them at 
appropriate times. 

STEP 10 

EXPRESS THE HARMONY OR DISCORD OF THE LIFE 
PATH/EXPRESSION ASPECT. 

From chart 6: the aspects: 

The 5 Life Path 16 Expression is usually discordant. The strong 
personal desire of the 5 for freedom conflicts with the potential 
of the 6 for responsibility and concern for others. 

The Life Path represents about half the core while the Expres¬ 
sion represents about a third. The 5 Life Path will govern the 
5-6 aspect, but Harlan will have to deal with the conflicting 
energies of the 6 Expression. 

You are probably exhilarated by all the exciting 
opportunities and adventures so often present in 
your life. It may be difficult, at times, to give up 
this excitement to satisfy your responsibilities. 





64 


PART II: THE CORE 


There may even be times when you want to shirk 
these responsibilities or give them up altogether to 
enjoy the excitement of freedom. 

Ignoring your responsibilities will probably not be 
very satisfying for you. You have to find some way 
to satisfy the adventurous side of your nature and, 
at the same time, enjoy the pleasures you receive 
when you express your responsible, conscientious 
side. You may find that an out-of-the-ordinary job 
may be helpful in balancing the quiet stability you 
may desire in a close family. Or, you might plan 
exciting trips or follow some unusual avocations 
to offset the solid, respectable job which gives you 
satisfaction. 

STEP 11 

EXPRESS THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE LIFE PATH/EX¬ 
PRESSION COMBINATION. 

Copy the effectiveness from the appropriate paragraph in the 
Table of Effectiveness in this chapter. 

Harlan has a 6 Expression and a 5 Life Path; 6-5-1 space. 
Copy the paragraph describing the Life Path higher or lower 
than the Expression by 1 or 2 spaces. 

You have the potential to take advantage of the 
opportunities presented with relative ease, to 
make the most of the experiences which come 
your way. Your natural abilities will probably find 
ample field for expression. The environment will 
allow your talents to be displayed and appre¬ 
ciated. As your capabilities find the opportunities 
to expand to meet their potential, your develop¬ 
ment will progress in a manner which may bring 
you much satisfaction. 

STEP 12 

DETERMINE THE HARMONY OR DISCORD OF THE EX¬ 
PRESSION/LIFE PATH AND THE EXPRESSION/SOUL 
URGE ASPECTS. 

The harmony or discord of the aspects relative to the Expres¬ 
sion will modify the Expression positive attitudes and negative 
attitudes expressed in Steps 13 and 14. 




CHAPTER 7 : CORE SYNTHESIS 


65 


From, chart 6: the aspects; 

As we’ve expressed in Step 10, the 6 Expression/5 Life Path is 
usually discordant. The strong personal desire of the 5 for free¬ 
dom conflicts with the potential of the 6 for responsibility and 
concern for others. 

The 6 Expression/9 Soul Urge is usually harmonious. The 
potential of the 6 for responsibility and concern for others is 
enhanced by the potential of the 9 for giving to others. The 
potential for creative self-expression of both the 6 and 9 en¬ 
hances the expressive capabilities. 

We have, to this point, explored the Life Path and the abilities 
of the Expression. From chart 5: the soul urge read the 9 Soul 
Urge. In this example, the 6 Expression, representing thirty 
percent of the core, is opposed by the 5 Life Path (with the 
Birthday), representing fifty percent of the core, and enhanced 
by the Soul Urge, representing twenty percent of the core. In 
Harlan, the balance and responsibility of the 6 will be in con¬ 
flict with the free, adventurous spirit of the 5. At the same 
time, the balance, responsibility and love of the 6 will be 
enhanced by the selfless, humanitarian outlook of the 9, and 
the creative self-expression of the 6-9 provides a stronger poten¬ 
tial than the creativity of the 6 by itself. 


STEP 13 

EXPRESS THE, POSITIVE ATTITUDES OF THE EX¬ 
PRESSION. 

Modify the positive attitudes of the Expression based on the 
aspects found in Step 12. 

From chart 3: the expression list the positive attitudes of the 6 
Expression from the middle horizontal division. Study each 
trait to determine if it is affected by the discord with the 5 Life 
Path or the harmony with the 9 Soul Urge. 

When you are involved closely with people, you 
are probably most loving, friendly and apprecia¬ 
tive of others, as well as very sympathetic, kind, 
generous and understanding. There may be times, 
though, when you prefer not to be involved at all. 

The 6-5 discord is expressed by the possibility of sometimes be¬ 
ing involved and sometimes not. The 6• 9 harmony enhances the 
attitude expressed, and. accounts for the “most loving, friendly, 
etc. ” and “very sympathetic, kind, etc. ” 




66 


PART II: THE CORE 


Although you may well be involved in domestic 
activities, you may feel the pressures of these 
responsibilities conflicting with your own need for 
individuality. The resolution of this conflict (or the 
lack of resolution) will determine how good a hus¬ 
band and parent you are. 

The 6-5 discord substantially affects this attitude. The 6 9 har¬ 
mony effect is not specifically mentioned. Its effect would be 
present as noted in the previous attitude. 

You are probably extremely open and honest with 
others. 

The 6 openness and honesty is reinforced by the similar 9. The 
free-spirited 5 tends to be open and honest also, although its 
openness and honesty may be self-centered and not necessarily 
work to forward its best interests. 

STEP 14 

EXPRESS THE NEGATIVE ATTITUDES OF THE EXPRES¬ 
SION. 

Modify the negative attitudes of the Expression based on the 
aspects found in Step 12. 

From chart 3: the expression list the negative attitudes of the 
6 Expression from the bottom horizontal division. Study each 
trait to see if it is affected by the discord with the 5 Life Path or 
the harmony with the 9 Soul Urge. 

There is the possibility that you may be too exact¬ 
ing of yourself and willing to sacrifice yourself (or 
your family) for the welfare of others, but your 
strong individual needs will probably mitigate this 
attitude. 

The 6-5 discord substantially modifies this characteristic. 

At times, you may have substantial difficulty dis¬ 
tinguishing helping from interfering. 

The 6-9 harmony intensifies this trait. 

Although you may express worry and anxiety, you 
are apt to try and cover these feelings and look at 
the bright side instead. 

The free spirit of the 5 resists the negativity of the 6 and 9. 

The expression of your individual needs will prob¬ 
ably keep you from becoming a drudge because 



CHAPTER 7: CORE SYNTHESIS 


67 


of excessive involvement with your respon¬ 
sibilities. 

The 6-5 discord strongly modifies this attitude. 

STEP 15 

EXPRESS THE MOTIVES OF THE SOUL URGE. 

The motives remain the same irrespective of the other core 
elements. 

From chart 4: soul urge copy the motives of the 9 Soul Urge 
shown in the upper horizontal division. 

Your inner nature wants to give of itself to others, 
usually in a humanitarian or philanthropic man¬ 
ner. You probably want to give friendship, affec¬ 
tion, love. You may want to give your knowledge 
and experience. You may also want to share with 
others your artistic or creative talents. It's possible 
that these talents are of considerable magnitude. 

STEP 16 

EXPRESS THE HARMONY OR DISCORD OF THE LIFE 
PATH/SOUL URGE ASPECT. 

From chart 6: aspects: 

The 5 Life Path/9 Soul Urge is usually discordant. The strong 
personal desire of the 5 for freedom conflicts with the potential 
of the 9 for giving to others. 

The Life Path represents about half the core while the Soul 
Urge represents only a fifth. The 5 Life Path will govern the 
aspect, but Harlan will have to deal with the conflicting 
energies of the 9 Soul Urge. 

Although your inner nature feels the need to give 
to others, you may often feel torn between this 
need and your stronger need to explore the exhil¬ 
arating opportunities that present themselves for 
your personal development. You must learn to 
balance these opposing energies to avoid the frus¬ 
tration of missing an adventure or the sadness of 
not being available to those in need of your help. 

STEP 17 

EXPRESS THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE LIFE PATH/ 
SOUL URGE COMBINATION. 







68 


PART II: THE CORE 


Copy the effectiveness from the appropriate paragraph in this 
chapter. 

The subject has a 9 Soul Urge and a 5 Life Path. 9-5 = 4 
spaces. Copy the paragraph describing the Life Path lower than 
the Soul Urge by 3, 4 or 5 spaces. 

Although you are able to recognize your oppor¬ 
tunities, you find somewhat fewer possibilities 
than you would like to advance your inner devel¬ 
opment. The experiences at hand, while not neces¬ 
sarily presenting opportunities to fulfill your inner 
needs, are apt to act as a secondary motivating 
force. Make the most of these experiences. Learn 
to accept the natural pace of your development. 

STEP 18 

EXPRESS THE HARMONY OR DISCORD OF THE EX¬ 
PRESSION/SOUL URGE ASPECT. 

From chart 6: aspects: 

The 6 Expression/9 Soul Urge is usually harmonious. The po¬ 
tential of the 6 for responsibility and concern for others is 
enhanced by the potential of the 9 for giving to others. The 
potential for creative self-expression of both the 6 and 9 
enhances the expressive capabilities. 

The Expression represents about one-third the core while the 
Soul Urge represents only one-fifth. The 6 Expression will 
govern the aspect, but will be aided by the harmonious energies 
of the 9 Soul Urge. 

Your natural talent at being helpful and able to 
balance inharmonious situations will be substan¬ 
tially aided by your inner need to give to others, 
often without thought of yourself. You may be 
much concerned with the betterment of the com¬ 
munity and capable of assisting in that better¬ 
ment. 

You are apt to be strongly motivated to develop 
your creative expressive talents. 

STEP 19 

EXPRESS THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE EXPRES¬ 
SION/SOUL URGE COMBINATION. 

Copy the effectiveness from the appropriate paragraph in this 
chapter. 



CHAPTER 7: CORE SYNTHESIS 


69 


The subject has a 9 Soul Urge and a 6 Expression. 9-6 = 3 
spaces. Copy the paragraph describing the Expression lower 
than the Soul Urge by 3, 4 or 5 spaces. 

Your motivation sometimes seems to outrun your 
abilities. Although you have many ideas, your 
natural talents don't necessarily help to advance 
these ideas. Learn to be content with the realiza¬ 
tion that it will take more time than you would 
prefer to fulfill your inner desires. 

STEP 20 

REVIEW THE HARMONY OR DISCORD OF THE LIFE 
PATH/SOUL URGE AND EXPRESSION/SOUL URGE 
ASPECTS. 

The harmony or discord of the aspects relative to the Soul Urge 
will modify the Soul Urge positive attitudes and negative atti¬ 
tudes expressed in Steps 21 and 22. 

Review the usually discordant 5 Life Path/9 Soul Urge aspect 
discussed in Step 16. Review the usually harmonious 9 Soul 
Urge 16 Expression aspect discussed in Step 18. 

For Harlan, the 9 Soul Urge, representing twenty percent of 
the core is enhanced by the 6 Expression, representing thirty 
percent of the core, and opposed by the 5 Life Path (with the 
Rirthday), representing fifty percent of the core. The selfless 
humanitarian outlook of the 9 will be bolstered by the balance, 
responsibility and love of the 6. The 6 and 9 will also provide a 
strong potential for creative self-expression. At the same time, 
the potential of the 9 for giving to others will meet strong resis¬ 
tance from the personal desire of the 5 for freedom. Since the 5 
has so much strength relative to the 9, the conflicts between the 
5 and 9 will be more strongly influenced by the 5 than the 9. 

STEP 21 

EXPRESS THE POSITIVE ATTITUDES OF THE SOUL 
URGE. 

Modify the positive attitudes of the Soul Urge based on the 
aspects discussed in Step 20. 

From chart 4: the soul urge list the positive attitudes of the 9 
Soul Urge from the middle horizontal division. Study each trait 
to determine if it is affected by the discord with the 5 Life Path 
or the harmony with the 6 Expression. 

When you are concerned about others, you are 
very sympathetic, generous and kind. At these 





70 


PART II: THE CORE 


times, your sensitive nature expresses much love, 
compassion and tolerance. There may be times, 
though, when you prefer not to be involved at all. 
The 9-5 discord is expressed by the possibility of sometimes be¬ 
ing involved and sometimes not. The 9- 6 harmony enhances the 
attitude expressed, and accounts for the “very sympathetic, 
etc., ” and the “much love, etc. ” 

You possess a deep, intuitive understanding of life, 
innate wisdom, good intuition and a broad point 
of view. 

These traits are expressed as indicated in Chart 4. The 5 and 9 
do not add or subtract. 

You are capable, at times, of expressing high ideals 
and an inspirational approach. You are capable of 
being self-sacrificing, but this trait is apt to con¬ 
flict with your love of freedom. 

The 9-5 discord indicates the conflict between self-sacrifice and 
freedom. 

You can give freely without being concerned 
about any return, although your desire to give may 
cause conflicts with your self-centered needs. 

The 9-5 discord indicates the conflict between giving and self- 
centered needs. 

STEP 22 

EXPRESS THE NEGATIVE ATTITUDES OF THE SOUL 
URGE. 

Modify the negative attitudes of the Soul Urge based on the 
aspects discussed in Step 20. 

From chart 4: soul urge list the negative attitudes of the 9 
Soul Urge from the bottom horizontal division. Study each trait 
to determine if it is affected by the discord with the 5 Life Path 
or the harmony with the 6 Expression. 

You may be far too sensitive, extremely emotional 
with your emotions expressed very strongly. 

The 9-6 harmony intensifies the sensitivity and the emotions. 

You probably suffer from the conflict between 
your high spiritual aims and your need for freedom 
and personal expansion. 




CHAPTER 7: CORE SYNTHESIS 


71 


The 9-5 discord intensifies the conflict. 

At times, you probably resent the necessity of giv¬ 
ing. At times, when your giving conflicts with your 
own needs, you may not give, but you'll be dis¬ 
satisfied anyway. 

The 9-5 discord intensifies the problem. 

Sometimes you're disappointed in the lack of per¬ 
fection in yourself and others. 

The trait is expressed as indicated on Chart 5. The 5 and 6 do 
not add or subtract. 

Your tendency to be quite moody and critical at 
times is usually offset by your freedom-loving 
delight. 

The 9-6 harmony may intensify the moodiness, but the 9-5 
discord tends to balance the negativity. 


When we started the core synthesis we knew only Harlan’s 
birthname and birthdate. Amazingly enough, we now have a 
reasonably detailed idea of his character. When we started our 
discussion of the core, we compared it to a slightly fuzzy black- 
and-white reproduction of a full color portrait. We now have 
that fuzzy reproduction. 

A summary of jhe core synthesis might read like this: 

Harlan William Allen, born May 12,1941, is an ac¬ 
tive, versatile, freedom-loving person with much 
excitement and adventure in his life, enhanced by 
his expression of the joy of living. He has the capa¬ 
bility of being responsible, loving and giving. He 
must learn to balance the somewhat self-centered 
exhilaration he finds in freedom with his inner 
need to give much to others in the way of friend¬ 
ship, love and affection. He has the potential for 
artistic or creative endeavor. 


Summary 
of the 
core 

synthesis 


But just how accurate is the picture? There is, of course, no 
way to check on the fictitious Harlan, but, from my experience, 
I’d expect we’d come pretty close. But don’t just take my word 
for it. Follow the 22 steps and delineate your own core syn¬ 
thesis. Do a few others—your parents, spouse, children, close 
friends. IF THERE’S A-MASTER NUMBER OR REPEATED 






72 


PART II: THE CORE 


Potentials 


NUMBERS AMONG THE CORE ELEMENTS, SET THAT 
READING ASIDE UNTIL YOU’VE READ THE NEXT 
CHAPTERS. I expect you’ll be as astonished as I was when I 
began to be aware of the mysterious power of numbers. 


If you’ve carefully followed Harlan’s core synthesis and if 
you do a few delineations of your own, you’ll be developing 
your own numerology skills. The synthesis, as outlined, certain¬ 
ly requires patience in the enfolding. The 22 steps are 
specifically designed to make you aware of the manner in 
which the various energies are blended. As you grow more 
familiar with the numbers and the idea of synthesis, the delin¬ 
eation process will become second-nature. When we discuss ad¬ 
vanced reading, you’ll see how we can simplify the 22 steps and 
produce even better readings. 


Let’s go back now and examine some assumptions underlying 
the basic principles of delineation. 

IN A CHARACTER DELINEATION, WE ARE DEALING 
ONLY WITH POTENTIALS. We have no way of knowing 
exactly how an individual will use these potentials. 

In a core reading, there are 11 different possible Life Paths, 
11 different possible Expressions, 11 different possible Soul 
Urges and 31 different possible Birthdays. There are, then, over 
40,000 different cores possible (11x11x11x31 = 41,261). 
Somewhat over 4 billion people are living in the world at this 
time. If we assume that the different cores are spread around 
more or less evenly, there are about 100,000 people with the 
same core. 

By the time we take all the modifiers (Part III) into account, 
we’ll have well over 4 billion possible combinations, confirming 
our feeling of the uniqueness of each individual. But, let’s look 
only at the core—the essence, as it were. Surely, we’re not say¬ 
ing that those 100,000 people with the same core are similar. 
We are saying that those 100,000 people have the same poten¬ 
tials. That is a far different prospect. 

Potential, by the dictionary definition, means, 

1. possible as opposed to actual; 

2. capable of coming into being or action. 

A potential, by its very nature, is not a fixed or finite charac¬ 
teristic. It’s in constant flux, modifying the free will and en¬ 
vironment and being, in turn, modified by them. The potential 









CHAPTER 7: CORE SYNTHESIS 


73 


is a moving force, shifting direction, expressing, at different 
times, a positive, negative or neutral side. 

Let’s look more closely at a few of the 100,000 people who 
share one core. Remember that Harlan William Allen, our fic¬ 
titious subject, had a 5 Life Path, a 6 Expression, a 9 Soul Urge 
and a 3 Birthday. Now, coincidentally (actually, not so coin¬ 
cidentally—I really planned it all along) Abraham Lincoln was 
born on February 12, 1809, which gives him the same core as 
Harlan. Though we have no idea what the fictitious Harlan 
might do with his potentials, we can easily check on Honest 
Abe. You might want to re-read Harlan’s delineation now that 
you know it also represents Lincoln. The core synthesis is a 
good description of our sixteenth President’s potentials. 

Lincoln’s great achievement was the freedom he brought to 
the slaves (5: freedom, 6: concern for betterment of commun¬ 
ity, 9: humanitarian). In his early life he had many jobs—he 
built and navigated a steamboat down the Mississippi, worked 
in a store, managed a mill, spent some time as a surveyor as 
well as a village postmaster, served in the Black Hawk War (5: 
rolling stone). He had a troubled courtship with Mary Todd, 
with many breaks and reconciliations (5-6 conflict). He was an 
extraordinary stump speaker, went on to give some of the finest 
speeches in American history (3: verbal ability, 6-9 creative 
potential). He had a reputation for uncommon sociability (6: 
caring, 3: social). 

The great naturalist, Charles Darwin, was born Charles 
Robert Darwin on February 12, 1809, the same day as Lincoln. 
Darwin has the same core as Lincoln. 

Darwin’s reputation as a great scientist and writer rests par¬ 
ticularly on his Origin of the Species and Descent of Man, 
books which are monuments not only in biology but also in 
English literature (5: constructive expansion of knowledge, 6-9: 
creative potential, 3: writing ability). His life was dramatically 
changed, his life course set by his five-year round-the-world 
cruise as naturalist on the Beagle (an ultimate expression of the 
5 freedom and opportunity). Although his scientific writing 
made him famous, he enjoyed the excitement of his experimen¬ 
tal work far more than the writing (5: exciting opportunities, 3: 
writing ability). He was a devoted husband and father, a born 
teacher, was sympathetic, genial, courteous and kind, with a 
quiet naturalness arising from a complete absence of pretension 
(all expressions of 6 qualities enhanced by the 9 energy). 

Both Lincoln and Darwin contributed to the world by a 
superb use of their potentials. But, as you can see, their lives 
were extremely dissimilar. There are other factors besides the 
potentials which account for a person’s development. We’ll 
discuss them shortly. 






74 


PART II: THE CORE 


Delineation 
for the entire 
life or 
any specific 
time period 
in the life 



A CHARACTER DELINEATION IS A READING FOR 
THE ENTIRE LIFE OR FOR ANY SPECIFIC TIME PER¬ 
IOD IN THE LIFE. The potentials in a reading must be ex¬ 
pressed in broad enough terms so they can, indeed, make sense 
for the entire span of years from birth to death. The subject, 
the person receiving the reading, must be able to easily relate 
the broad description of the potential to his particular place 
along the continuum of that potential at the time he receives 
the reading. 

Let’s study this point in more detail. An old friend of mine— 
let’s call her Emily—with a Life Path of 1, would be a good 
subject. Let’s look at her life in relation to her Life Path poten¬ 
tials—individuation, independence and attainment. 

Emily grew up as the youngest child in a large family and en¬ 
joyed much comfort and support. When she married in her 
mid-twenties, she was content with her passive housewife’s 
role. When her husband was seriously injured in an industrial 
accident, Emily was forced to take a full-time job to support 
him and their three young children. For over ten years, until 
her husband’s early death, Emily was breadwinner, nurse, 
housewife and mother. Although she was indeed the head of 
the household, she felt totally dependent for love and support 
on those who were, in actuality, dependent on her. 

After her eldest children had married, Emily centered her 
needs on her youngest boy. The child was uncomfortable with 
her efforts to keep him in a subordinate role. As soon as he was 
old enough, he found employment in a distant city. Despite a 
close relation with a nearby brother and sister, Emily felt alone 
and defeated. Although she had friends and visited her children 
and grandchildren frequently, she felt that no one needed her. 

Now in her early sixties, Emily has at last accepted the un¬ 
availability of someone on whom she can lean. She has learned 
to make decisions capably, to spend her time enjoyably with 
friends, family and activities. She has begun to learn the mean¬ 
ing of independence. 

Emily’s life expresses her use of her potentials. Her delinea¬ 
tion would reflect the changes in her life as she aged. The 
delineation would be expressed so that it is meaningful to Emily 
and points the way to future development no matter how old 
she is when she receives the reading. 

Read the central focus and the commentary of the 1 Life 
Path in Chart 2. This might serve as a brief, but complete, 
reading which satisfies the above points. It encompasses 
Emily’s lack of individuation in childhood, her dependence in 
young adulthood, her independent actions and subservient feel¬ 
ings when her husband was injured, her reliance on her young 
son when the other children married, her inability to accept be- 


CHAPTER 7 : CORE SYNTHESIS 


75 


ing independent when her youngest child left, the eventual 
positive experience of independence, even her potential for 
attainment in the years to come. 


A CHARACTER DELINEATION INDICATES THE 
POTENTIALS—AROUT A THIRD OF THE INFORMA¬ 
TION DESCRIRING A PERSON. THE FREE WILL AND 
ENVIRONMENT—INFORMATION DESCRIBING THE 
OTHER TWO-THIRDS—ARE NOT CONTAINED IN THE 
DELINEATION. 

Look at Emily again. Her environment—the large family 
into which she was born, her husband’s work and acci¬ 
dent—were major factors in her life. Her free will was respon¬ 
sible, in her particular case, for her limited progress. Her role 
as passive wife, her years as head of her family without any 
feelings of independence, her dependence on her young son, 
her ultimate beginning understanding of her life lesson were all 
acts of her will which determined the directions of her life. If 
she had been a less subservient wife, if she had chosen to lead 
her family as an independent woman might, if she had not 
centered her needs on her son, her life would have taken signifi¬ 
cantly different directions. 

Some people are disappointed that all the information isn’t 
available in a reading. We have to recognize that the universe 
is structured by the potentials, but the potentials are operating 
within a field of freedom. 

As you proceed with numerology, you may be amazed at 
how much you do learn about people, using only the potentials. 
You’ll begin to understand subtleties which you didn’t even see 
before, become aware of motivations previously hidden, gain 
insights which you cannot gain in any other way. Many sub¬ 
jects will provide part of the missing two-thirds. Most enjoy fill¬ 
ing in at least portions of the information for your under¬ 
standing. 


THE CHARACTER DELINEATION, LIKE THE LIFE IT 
REPRESENTS, IS COMPOSED OF POTENTIALS WHICH 
ARE SOMETIMES HARMONIOUS, SOMETIMES DIS¬ 
CORDANT, SOMETIMES CONFLICTING, OFTEN AM¬ 
BIGUOUS OR INCONSISTENT. The task of the numerologist 
is to express, as clearly as possible, exactly what is present in a 
manner which will be of most use to the person receiving the 
reading. It is important to express conflicts, ambiguities or in- 


Potentials, 
free will, 
environment 


Ambiguity in 
delineations 




76 


PART II: THE CORE 


consistencies just as the numbers describe them, so that the sub¬ 
ject will understand the forces within. Don’t attempt to tidy up 
a reading by making all the pieces fit together neatly and 
consistently. Although this may satisfy a desire for order, it 
does the subject a disservice by distorting the information he 
receives. 

Particularly with your first readings, you’re apt to be con¬ 
cerned because the parts of a delineation may feel as if they 
don’t go together. I’ve often prefaced parts of a delineation 
with some remark like: “I don’t understand how you can be 

- and - at the same time, but that’s what 

the numbers say.” You’ll find that the subject will almost invar¬ 
iably understand the forces and their relation, and usually be 
happy to explain it to you. 


Express ALWAYS EXPRESS the delineation in the most 
the potentials POSITIVE MANNER POSSIBLE. Don’t give a reading from a 
no ‘tivelv negative point of view. It may fix a subject’s mind with the dif- 
^ ^ ficulties of his life and make it harder for him to resolve 

whatever discords or conflicts are present. (If you were dealing, 
in an extreme case, with a chart replete with conflicts, you 
would express the least difficult conflict as the most har¬ 
monious force available, the second least difficult conflict as 
the next most harmonious force, and so forth.) 

Suppose, for instance, a chart shows a person who prefers to 
spend much of his time alone, has difficulty communicating 
with others and reticence in expressing emotions. If you said 
“Marriage is not recommended because you seem to have prob¬ 
lems getting along with others,” you would be stating the in¬ 
formation in a damaging way. It would be better to express the 
information positively: “Marriage will require you to work at 
increasing your skills in getting along with others.” 

You must stay constantly alert to the powerful forces with 
which you are dealing. Handle with care!!! 



CHAPTER 8: CORE WITH MASTER NUMBERS 


77 


CHAPTER 8 


CORE SYNTHESIS WITH 
MASTER NUMBER ELEMENTS 


The numbers 11 and 22 are master numbers. They represent 
the potential for heightened levels of awareness and under¬ 
standing and the possibility of achievements of great signifi¬ 
cance. They are always accompanied by substantial charges of 
nervous tension. This combination of potential power and ner¬ 
vous tension does not make for easy going. The high level of 
energy can be extrepiely taxing; 

It isn’t possible to operate at the high level of the master 
number all the time. For many people, it’s hardly possible to 
ever work at that level. Now, since 2 is the reduced form of 11 
(1 + 1 = 2), the 11 energy devoted to illumination can be in¬ 
terpreted as a higher form of the 2 energy dedicated to relation 
and cooperation, with illumination and the dissemination of 
the products of the illumination implying working with others 
on a spiritual rather than a mundane level. Similarly, the 22 
energy related to becoming a master builder can be understood 
as the higher level of the energy given to order and service of 
the 4, the reduced form of 22 (2 + 2 = 4). With an 11 ele¬ 
ment, you can choose to operate with the higher 11 energy or 
the reduced 2 energy, just as with the 22, you can use either the 
22 or the 4 energy. I always write 11 as 11/2 and 22 as 22/4 to 
indicate the choice conferred only by the master numbers. (If 
the core element is 2 or 4, 2 or 4 energy alone is available and 
cannot be raised to 11 or 22.) 

The choice we’re talking about is not always a conscious one. 
A child with a master number element is always operating on 





78 


PART II: THE CORE 


Birthday 
with master 
number 


Life Path, 
Expression or 
Soul Urge 
with master 
number 


the reduced level. Although the child would have some occa¬ 
sional glimpses of higher awarenesses, he would probably be 
more aware of the tensions he feels. Often, the tension and the 
latent power of the master number will be so difficult to live 
with that the child, or even the young adult, will express the 
reduced element with negativity. The 22 youngster is apt to feel 
frustrated by his limitations, by his rigid approach, by his con¬ 
centration on details to the exclusion of the bigger picture. In¬ 
stead of being able to use the 22 power, the youngster is ex¬ 
pressing an overbalance of the 4 energy. The youngster with an 
11 element often expresses negatively by denying the 2 energy. 
Instead of being sensitive, cooperative, considerate, the subject 
may be too sensitive, shy, uncertain, sometimes apathetic or in¬ 
different. 

As a person grows older, the power and awarenesses of the 
master number are more readily understood and used. Some 
mature adults may operate on the master level a good deal of 
the time, use the reduced level only occasionally. Many adults 
have difficulty with the power. They prefer to operate on the 
reduced level most of the time. Some adults, only somewhat in 
touch with their latent powers, prefer to stay almost exclusively 
on the mundane level. 

The master number energy is there to be used if and when a 
person is ready. The master number tension is present whether 
or not the power is used. A subject with an 11 or 22 element 
reminds me of a moon rocket on the launching pad—enormous 
energy to be used—and the possibility of a premature fizzling 
out. 


If the Birthday is a master number, the delineation proceeds 
in the same manner as shown in Chapter 7. The 2 energy of the 
11/2 Birthday and the 4 energy of the 22/4 Birthday are already 
included in the description on chart 5: the birthday, along 
with an emphasis on nervous tension. 


When the master number appears in the Life Path, Expres¬ 
sion or Soul Urge, the same delineation steps are followed as in 
Chapter 7, but the master number energies must be read on the 
higher level of 11 or 22 and the lower level of 2 or 4. The har¬ 
mony/discord and the effectiveness comparisons must be 
related to 11 and 2—or 22 and 4. 

Look at chart 6: the aspects. The aspect 1-22 is usually dis¬ 
cordant but 1-4 is usually harmonious. The higher level aspect 





CHAPTER 8: CORE WITH MASTER NUMBERS 


79 


is often at odds with the lower level aspect. The effectiveness is 
apt to vary, too. While 2-3 is an effective combination, 11-3 is 
relatively ineffective. The subject will feel a degree of tension 
because of these different relations of the high and low level 
energies with the other elements. You can imagine the difficul¬ 
ties when you’re operating with two related energies, both an 
integral part of you, with one producing harmony and effec¬ 
tiveness, while the other tends to conflict and ineffectiveness. 


Following is a partial core synthesis for Grandma Moses, the 
legendary artist. The step-by-step delineation that follows (the 
individual steps are similar to those in Chapter 7) presents the 
special way a reading is handled if the Life Path, Expression or 
Soul Urge is a master number. In this example, Grandma 
Moses has a master number Life Path. But a similar method 
would be used if the Expression or Soul Urge was the master 
number. 

In the analysis that follows, we’ll proceed as we did in 
Chapter 7. We’ll first list each step, followed by a general ex¬ 
planation when necessary. We will then indicate, in italics, 
precisely where the information for Grandma Moses’ specific 
delineation is to be found, and then show that portion of her 
synthesis derived by following the instructions. The actual 
delineation will be shown indented. 


Step-by-step 

partial core 

synthesis 

with a 

master 

number 

element 


STEP 1 

DERIVE THE ELEMENTS OF THE CORE. 

From the calculation instructions in Chapters 3 through 6: 

Grandma Moses was born Anna Mary Robertson on 
September 7, 1860. Therefore, she has: 

22/4 Life Path 

6 Expression 
9 Soul Urge 

7 Birthday 


STEP 2 

EXPRESS THE CENTRAL FOCUS OF THE LIFE PATH. 

The central focus remains the same irrespective of the other 
core elements. 






80 


PART II: THE CORE 


From chart 2: the life path copy the central focus of the 22 
Life Path and the 4 Life Path shown in the upper horizontal 
division. 

22 Life Path 

Learn the ultimate mastery of combining the high¬ 
est spiritual ideals with the enormous power to 
achieve the largest of material goals. With this 
master number, you have added perceptions, 
added awarenesses.. . . 

Provide an explanation of the special choice available with a 
master number. 

Your lesson in life, just outlined, is a high level 
lesson, indeed. Along with this high level lesson, 
there is an additional lesson on a mundane level. 
The potential of the higher lesson is available 
when you feel capable of handling the energy, but 
you may choose to spend some or a good deal of 
your time on the mundane lesson. I would suspect 
that, as a child or young adult, you found it far 
easier to operate on the lower level. As you grew 
older, you probably found yourself better able to 
handle the higher level power. 

4 Life Path: 

On the mundane level, learn the advantage of 
order and service in accomplishing your work. You 
will probably be involved in practical, down-to- 
earth work. You must learn the rewards of service. 
You will have to determine where your duty 
lies. . . . 

STEP 3 

EXPRESS THE SUB-FOCUS OF THE BIRTHDAY. 

From chart 5: the birthday use the keywords for the 7 Birth¬ 
day. To elaborate on these keywords, read the central focus of 
the 7 Life Path found in Chart 2. 

While you're learning to be a master builder and 
learning the lesson of limitation, order and ser¬ 
vice, learn also how to use analysis and under¬ 
standing. . . . 





CHAPTER 8: CORE WITH MASTER NUMBERS 


81 


STEP 4 

EXPRESS THE HARMONY OR DISCORD OF THE LIFE 
PATH/BIRTHDAY ASPECT. 

From chart 6: the aspects read the 7-22 aspect—usually 
discordant. The aspect, as written in the chart, expresses the 
conflict of the 7 energy with the prevailing 22 energy. 

Your introspective ways conflict with your poten¬ 
tial for working toward substantial material 
achievement. 

From the same chart, read the 4• 7 aspect—usually harmonious. 
Rewrite the aspect to express the enhancement of the prevailing 
4 energy by the 7 energy. 

Your capability at study and research will help in 
working toward an awareness of system and order. 


STEP 5 

DETERMINE THE HARMONY OR DISCORD OF THE 
LIFE PATH/EXPRESSION AND THE LIFE PATH/SOUL 
URGE ASPECTS. 

From chart 6: aspects: 

The 22 Life Path/6 Expression is usually harmonious. The 
potential of the 6 for responsibility and concern for others is 
enhanced by the potential of the 22 for substantial material 
achievement, but the nervous tension of the 22 will be a partial 
detriment to the 6 approach. 

The 22 Life Path/9 Soul Urge is visually harmonious. The 
potential of the 9 for giving to others is enhanced by the po¬ 
tential of the 22 for significant material achievement. 

The 22 Life Path, 6 Expression and 9 Soul Urge are usually all 
working together in a harmonious manner. Although the 22 
represents a potential difficult to achieve. Grandma Moses will 
find the additional harmonious energy of great help. 

The 4 Life Path/6 Expression is usually harmonious. The po¬ 
tential of the 4 for system and order enhances the potential of 
the 6 for responsibility and concern. 

The 4 Life Path/9 Soul Urge is usually discordant. The poten¬ 
tial of the 4 for fixity of approach conflicts with the potential of 
the 9 for giving to others. 







82 


PART 11: THE CORE 


The 4 Life Path and 6 Expression, representing eighty percent 
of the core’s energy, are in conflict with the 9 Soul Urge, repre¬ 
senting twenty percent of the core’s energy. The 4 potential for 
system and order works along with the balance and responsi¬ 
bility of the 6 (and the humanitarianism of the 9, although it is 
not specifically mentioned in the chart). The 4 rigidity conflicts 
with the giving qualities of the 9 (and the flexibility of the 6, 
again not specifically mentioned in the chart). 

STEP 6 

EXPRESS THE CHARACTERISTICS OF THE LIFE PATH. 

Modify the Life Path characteristics based on the aspects found 
in Step 5. 

From chart 2: the life path list the characteristics of the 22 
Life Path from the second horizontal division. Study each trait 
to determine if it is affected by the harmony with the 6 Expres¬ 
sion and the 9 Soul Urge. Modify the characteristic to express 
this effect. 

You are probably extremely capable at whatever 
work you choose, with the possibility of rising to 
the top of your profession. Even when you are not 
accomplishing, your latent capability is most ob¬ 
vious. 

The 6 balance and the 9 universality add to this characteristic, 
but it is already so strongly stated that any addition would be 
superfluous. 

You are probably practical. You have an innate 
understanding of the forces involved in material 
problems. 

This trait is expressed as indicated on Chart 2. The 22-6 and 
22-9 do not add or subtract. 

Although you have an unorthodox way about you, 
this is apt to be expressed in a reasonably bal¬ 
anced manner. Your significant perceptions of uni¬ 
versal matters will provide you with avenues not 
available to others or often not understandable to 
others. You may well operate on a different wave¬ 
length than others, but you probably know how to 
make yourself understood. 

The balance of the 6 and the universality of the 9 offset the 
unorthodox 22 tendencies. 





CHAPTER 8: CORE WITH MASTER NUMBERS 


S3 


You're likely to have a charismatic personality. 
The glow of your inner fire will probably be visible 
to all. Even when you're not accomplishing all that 
might be expected, others will be drawn by the 
excitement, balance and humanity expressed in 
your activities. 

The balance of the 6 and the humanitarianism of the 9 are 
noted in the last sentence. 

Your special awarenesses and capabilities are usu¬ 
ally accompanied by an almost electric field of 
nervous tension which can rarely be hidden. 

This trait is expressed as indicated on Chart 2. The 22-6 and 
22-9 do not add or subtract. 

From chart 2: the life path list the characteristics of the 4 
Life Path from the second horizontal division. Study each trait 
to determine if it is affected by the 4-6 harmony or the 4-9 
discord. Modify the characteristic to express this effect. 

You are probably practical and capable of syste¬ 
matizing and managing. You can produce order 
where little exists. 

This trait is expressed as indicated on Chart 2. The 4-6 doesn’t 
add and the 4-9 doesn’t subtract. 

You are willing to work long and hard and have 
much patience with detail. You are very conscien¬ 
tious and often seem to do better with difficult 
problems than with simpler work. Occasionally, 
you may seem to make the work harder by your 
peculiar approach, but you are, nevertheless, cap¬ 
able of completing the work. 

The 9 energy tends to somewhat modify the 4 fixity. Therefore, 
the addition of the “occasionally” at the beginning of the last 
sentence. 

You have a serious approach, express honesty and 
sincerity and are extremely responsible. 

The 6 responsibility adds to the responsibility of the 4 energy. 

You have fairly strong likes and dislikes and ex¬ 
press what you feel is right and wrong with some 
strength. 

The 6 and 9 flexibility tones down the 4 rigidity. 



84 


PART II: THE CORE 


At times, you have a somewhat fixed approach. 
This may express as strength to accomplish a task 
or as stubbornness. 

The 6 and 9 flexibility tones down the 4 rigidity. 

STEP 7 

EXPRESS THE CHARACTERISTICS OF THE RIRTHDAY. 

From chart 5: the birthday summarize the characteristics of 
the 7 Birthday. Remember, from Step 4, that the 22 Life 
Path/7 Birthday is usually discordant while the 4 Life Path/7 
Birthday is usually harmonious. Modify the traits as required. 

You aren't particularly adaptable. You often prefer 
working alone but feel isolated. You need time to 
rest and meditate, particularly after you've been 
working with others on any substantial project. 

Although the 4-7 is usually harmonious, the 4 here adds to the 
lack of adaptability. The effect of the 22■ 7 is noted in the last 
sentence. 

You're likely to be introspective. . . 

Continue with the rest of the Birthday characteristics. 

STEP 8 

DISCUSS THE NEGATIVE EXPRESSION OF THE LIFE 
PATH. 

Remember that the negative expression is determined, 
to a strong extent, by the free will and environment. This sec¬ 
tion warns of the potential problems inherent in the negative 
expression. 

From chart 2: the life path read the negative expression of 
the 22 Life Path in the third horizontal division. If she expresses 
negatively at all. Grandma Moses will tend to express the 
second negative expression, the denial of the lesson. The first 
negative expression is unlikely because of the added harmony of 
the 6 and 9 energies, but it, too, must be mentioned. 

If you feel overwhelmed by your powers, you may 
retreat from using them. You will then accomplish 
little, feel frightened by the world around you and 
uncomfortable with your nervous tension. 

There's a slight chance that you'll use your sub¬ 
stantial powers for your own selfish ends, but, con- 



CHAPTER 8: CORE WITH MASTER NUMBERS 


85 


sidering your sense of balance and your concern 
for others, this isn't very likely. 

From chart 2: the life path read the negative expression of 
the 4 Life Path in the third horizontal division. If Grandma 
Moses expresses negatively at all, she will tend to express the 
first negative expression, the exaggeration of the lesson. The 
second negative expression is unlikely because of the added 
balance of the 6 and 9 energies, but it, too, must be mentioned. 

If you feel overwhelmed by feelings of limitation, 
these feelings may stem from your own stubborn 
and obstinate manner and your rigid approach, 
but you probably would be hard pressed to see 
that you are causing your own problems. 

There's a slight chance that you'll be disorganized 
and irresponsible, but considering your sense of 
balance and your concern for others, this isn't very 
likely. 

Indicate the unproductivity. 

These negative expressions are unproductive. They 
should be avoided in order to proceed construc¬ 
tively with your development. 

The delineation would continue with Steps 9 through 22 as out¬ 
lined in Chapter 7. The aspects and effectiveness would relate 
to both the 22 Life Path and the 4 Life Path. 


Let’s examine some special situations involving master num¬ 
bers. Let’s assume a subject with a master number for a Birth¬ 
day (born on the 11th, 22nd or 29th) and the other master 
number as one of the other elements. (If the Birthday and the 
other element are the same master number, read Chapter 9 
before proceeding with the core synthesis.) 

Suppose we find a person with an 11/2 Birthday and a 22/4 
Expression. The Birthday reading is found on chart 5: the 
birthday, and the 22/4 Expression would be delineated like the 
Grandma Moses example with both the 22 Expression and the 4 
Expression described and compared to the other energies. The 
existence of two master numbers in the core would produce 
heightened perceptions and power potential along with a high 
level of tension. This is a difficult combination to handle and 
will take much maturity to handle wisely. A child or young 


Birthday 

and one 

additional 

element 

with 

master 

numbers 



86 


PART II: THE CORE 


adult, particularly, with this configuration is likely to have hard 
going. The delineation should express the difficulty and the 
struggle, but also emphasize the very special gifts involved and 
the significant possibilities. 


Two elements 
other than 
Birthday 
with master 
numbers 


A more powerful combination exists with a subject having 
two elements, other than the Birthday, with two different 
master numbers. (If the master numbers are the same, read 
Chapter 9.) 

Paul McCartney, born James Paul McCartney on June 18, 
1942, has a 22/4 Life Path, an 11/2 Expression, a 5 Soul Urge 
and a 9 Birthday. Seventy percent of his core consists of master 
energy potential. If a person with one master number can be 
compared to a moon rocket on the launching pad, you can ima¬ 
gine the energy level with two master numbers. A most diffi¬ 
cult combination with which to come to grips! The potential is 
enormous, but these people, beset with nervous tension, often 
wonder why they accomplish so little with so much latent abili¬ 
ty. Paul McCartney seems to have managed to focus his poten¬ 
tials for significant development. He represents a subject who 
may be said to have overcome the difficulties inherent in his 
master number potential. I would assume that he is bristling 
with energy, awareness and tension. 

McCartney’s synthesis is a more complicated affair than 
when only one master number is present. In his delineation, 
the 22 Life Path energy must be related to the 11 Expression as 
well as the 2 Expression. The 4 Life Path energy must also be 
related to the 11 and 2 Expression energies. The 5 Soul Urge 
must be related to the 22 and 4 Life Paths as well as the 11 and 
2 Expressions. The procedure is similar to the Grandma Moses 
delineation, but the number of combinations is increased. All 
of these energies are active in the subject and have to be 
described. 


A master number in the core calls special attention to the 
subject. It indicates the possibilities of significant perceptions 
and powers. It always indicates nervous tension. More often 
than not, you’ll find a person struggling to understand and re¬ 
lease the enormous energies he feels but has not learned to 
master. Occasionally, you’ll find a subject bewildered or over¬ 
whelmed by these forces. Many times, the person will endeavor 
to make life easier by depressing the master number and oper¬ 
ating primarily on the lower level, leaving only glimpses of the 
potent latent energy. The individual with a master number 
may choose to ignore or forget the higher potential, but, if you 
look closely, the tension is almost always visible. The master 
number is, indeed, a mixed blessing. 




CHAPTER 9: CORE WITH REPEATED NUMBERS 


87 


CHAPTER 9 


CORE SYNTHESIS 
WITH REPEATED 
NUMRER ELEMENTS 


Charlie has a core with a 1 Life Path 

2 Expression 

3 Soul Urge 

r . k 4 Birthday. 

We can see that Charlie has many different potentials: lead¬ 
ership potential from the 1, sensitivity from the 2, artistic ex¬ 
pression from the 3, self-discipline from the 4—to name just a 
few. It’s clear at a glance that Charlie has all sorts of energies 
he can develop, many directions in which to grow and develop. 

Charlie’s friend, Amy, has a core with a 

2 Life Path 

3 Expression 

6 Soul Urge 

9 Birthday. 

Amy has many different potentials, too: the diplomatic 
potential of the 2, the social and artistic potential of the 3, the 
responsible, loving and creative potential of the 6, the human¬ 
itarian potential of the 9. Although she has all sorts of energies, 
they seem to fall together in two groups. Amy is likely to do 
well with people: she is likely to combine the diplomatic, 
social, responsible, loving and humanitarian potentials. And 
Amy can also develop another side: her artistic and creative 
potentials. Amy’s energies are probably easier to focus than 






88 


PART II: THE CORE 


Charlie’s, but both friends have many exciting avenues to 
explore. 

Amy’s friend, Jill, has a different kind of core. She has a 

6 Life Path 
1 Expression 
6 Soul Urge 
5 Birthday 

Instead of the usual core with four different numbers, Jill has 
a core with only three. Now, she still has much potential to de¬ 
velop: the responsible, loving and creative potential of the 6, 
the leadership potential of the 1, the adaptable and imaginative 
potential of the 5—but—and this is a big BUT—the potential is 
poorly balanced. While thirty percent of Jill’s core is devoted to 
1 potential and ten percent is devoted to 5 potential, a substan¬ 
tial sixty percent is devoted to 6 potential. You might assume 
that it would be desirable to have all that loving, responsible, 
creative energy. It can be desirable, but only after Jill learns 
how to handle the problems created by the imbalance. 

If Jill had only one 6 core element, she’d tend to be a bal¬ 
anced person—loving and responsible. With the two 6 core 
elements, she has an excess of loving potential and an excess of 
responsibility potential. In her young years, Jill is likely to ex¬ 
press much love and much responsibility. She can prob¬ 
ably handle any and all responsibility, so her friends and family 
are always asking her to help—and she does help, willingly, 
lovingly, no matter how much time it takes. 

So what’s the problem? Dear, sweet Jill is so loving, so giv¬ 
ing, so helpful, she probably never has time for her own needs, 
may even feel she has few personal needs that are important. 
She’s so busy helping others that she doesn’t realize she’s 
become a drudge, a doormat, a virtual slave. Jill is undoubt¬ 
edly giving a great deal, but, in the process, she isn’t growing 
and developing—she’s fallen victim to her unbalanced core. 

At some time in her life, Jill is likely to get tired of the heavy 
burden she’s assumed. She’s likely to begin to decide which re¬ 
sponsibilities are legitimately hers, which people she cares to 
help. With some practice in becoming more discriminating, 
Jill’s life can change for the better. She’ll no longer be taken for 
granted or be treated like a doormat. In addition, she’ll be will¬ 
ing and able to take care of her own needs, have time to explore 
the closeness of relations with others, and begin to develop new 
depths of feeling and understanding. Jill will have succeeded in 
changing the imbalance into a dynamic positive force. 


IF TWO CORE ELEMENTS HAVE THE SAME NUMBER, 
THE SUBJECT WILL PROBABLY START OUT IN LIFE 



CHAPTER 9: CORE WITH REPEATED NUMBERS 


EXPRESSING ONE (OR BOTH) NEGATIVE EXTREMES 
OF THE POTENTIAL INSTEAD OF THE POSITIVE PO¬ 
TENTIAL: 

1. USING THE ENERGY ALMOST EXCLUSIVELY SO 
THAT IT BECOMES THE FOCUS OF A DISBAL- 
ANCED APPROACH. POSITIVE POTENTIAL MAY BE 
EXPRESSED AT THE SAME TIME. 

2. ALMOST COMPLETELY IGNORING THE POTEN¬ 
TIAL. 

Jill, of course, was using the first extreme. She concentrated 
on being loving and responsible to the detriment of her own 
development. Although she suffered as a consequence, she was 
using the 6 energy in an unbalanced manner—even though it 
included the expression of the 6 positive potential. 

Ninety-eight out of a hundred people with 6 6 energy express 
that first extreme. Sometimes, that first extreme is tempered by 
short periods of the second extreme—in the 6-6 case, periods of 
irresponsibility and coolness. In rare cases, you’ll find the 6-6 
energy expressed completely by the second extreme: a person 
who is almost always aloof, unloving, unwilling to handle re¬ 
sponsibilities. 

The doubled core element usually presents substantial obsta¬ 
cles to development—but ALL OBSTACLES ARE CAPABLE 
OF BEING OVERCOME. Only the individual involved can 
decide when he or she wants to shift from the negative to the 
positive potential/ . ► • ' 

One path to a balanced approach is found by adding the 
doubled numbers and expressing the positive potential of the 
sum. A way out of the 6-6 difficulties is to express the positive 3 
potential: (6 + 6 = 12, 1 + 2 = 3)—trade in the heavy 

approach of the doormat for the lighter expression of the joy of 
living of the 3. 


Turn to chart 6: the aspects and study the negative ex¬ 
tremes associated with each pair of doubled numbers. For each 
number, the first description indicates the overuse of the energy 
while the second description expresses the ignoring of the 
energy. A path to a more balanced approach is included after 
the description of the extremes. 

(If we’re dealing with 9-9 energy, a path to a more balanced 
approach is not as simple to derive, since 9 + 9 = 18 and 
1 + 8 = 9. The path here is defined as the positive potential 
of the 1 and 8.) 


Chart 6: 
The Aspects 





Examples of 
doubled core 
elements 


PART 11: THE CORE 


We can look at the lives of some well-known people to better 
understand the problems of the doubled elements as well as the 
contributions possible either because of, or in spite of, the im¬ 
balance. (Included are a few infamous individuals who were 
unable to use their free will to overcome their problems.) Com¬ 
pare the descriptions in chart 6: the aspects with the energies 
actually expressed. 

The people we’re using as examples are often expressing 
VERY EXTREME examples of the energies we’ve been describ¬ 
ing. I’ve purposely picked these extreme examples to graphic¬ 
ally illustrate the dynamics involved. (In most of these cases, 
the energies of the doubled core elements are directly related to 
the fame—or infamy—of the subject.) Obviously, most people 
are not expressing anything like these extremes. 

John L. Lewis (John Llewellyn Lewis) was born on February 
12, 1880. 

The charismatic leader of the coal miners union had a 1 Expres¬ 
sion and a 1 Soul Urge. Lewis was known for his hard-headed 
negotiations with the mine owners, his unwillingness to back 
down. He used his forceful, dominating stance to achieve con¬ 
structive ends. Rather than change the 1-1 negative energy to 
positive, he found a fulfilling way of making the negative 
energy work for him. A highly unusual, but successful, ap¬ 
proach. 

Jack Ruby (Jacob Rubenstein) was born on March 23, 1911. 

The nightclub owner who killed Lee Oswald had an 11/2 Life 
Path and an 11/2 Soul Urge. The culminating act of his life was 
an extreme negative expression of the distorted idealism asso¬ 
ciated with 11-11 energy. Ruby compounded the confusion sur¬ 
rounding the Kennedy assassination, a negative expression of 
the 2-2 energy. He was unable to come to grips with either the 
high or low level energy of the master number. 

Richard Speck (Richard Renjamin Speck) was born on Decem¬ 
ber 6, 1941. 

This mass murderer had a 3 Expression and a 3 Soul Urge. He 
was unable to express his deep-seated anger through normal 
channels. Speck’s senseless killings were related, in an extreme 
manner, to his inability to come to grips with his difficulties 
with self-expression, a negative expression of the 3-3 energy. 


John Mitchell (John Newton Mitchell) was born on September 
15, 1913. 


CHAPTER 9: CORE WITH REPEATED NUMBERS 


91 


Nixon’s Attorney General has a 22/4 Soul Urge and a 4 Expres¬ 
sion. He went to prison because of his involvement with Water¬ 
gate. His stubborn attitude (overuse of the 4 energy) and his 
lack of feeling of accountability (ignoring the 4 energy) were 
some of the traits responsible for his problems. Mitchell’s undo¬ 
ing was a result of his inability to cope with both extremes of 
the negative 4*4 potential. 

Martin Luther King (Michael Luther King) was born on Jan¬ 
uary 15, 1929. 

The brilliant leader of the civil rights movement had a 5 
Expression and a 5 Soul Urge. King worked as meaningfully as 
any American in this century to demonstrate the possibilities of 
using freedom constructively. This Nobel Prize winner is an ex¬ 
tremely rare example of a powerful use of positive potential 
without any trace of the negative expression of the 5 5. When 
the doubled energy is properly harnessed, there is, as in King’s 
example, a virtually limitless reservoir of positive power. 

Montgomery Clift was born on October 17, 1920. 

The superb actor had a 6 Expression and a 6 Soul Urge. His sen¬ 
sitive and brilliant performances in films (the positive expres¬ 
sion of his 3 Life Path as well as the creativity of the 6 energy) 
made him a top box-office attraction. His difficulties in expres¬ 
sing friendship and love as well as his irresponsible personal 
habits, negative expressions of the 6-6 potential, contributed to 
his unhappy life and early death. 

.. • ► V ■ y 

General Douglas MacArthur was born on January 26, 1880. 

The superb strategist had an 8 Life Path and an 8 Birthday. He 
was directly responsible for many of our brilliant victories in 
World War II and served as virtual dictator of Japan after the 
armistice. His superb intelligence and ability to perform in 
difficult situations contributed to his shining reputation. His 
obsession with himself—his rigid attitudes, his cool manner, his 
prideful ways—kept him from achieving the presidency, as he 
would have liked. MacArthur used the positive side of the 8-8, 
but never overcame the problems presented by the negative 
potential. 

Richard Nixon (Richard Milhous Nixon) was born on January 
9, 1913. 

This President has a 9 Expression and a 9 Birthday. During his 
term in office, Nixon was insensitive to others’ needs. He was 





.92 


PART II: THE CORE 


Relation 
to age 


self-centered, often inflexible. He brought on his own downfall 
because he could not overcome the negative 9-9 energy. 


In the examples above, you can observe the wide spectrum of 
expression possible with the doubled core elements. The step- 
by-step delineation which follows presents the special way a 
reading is handled with this type of energy. 

All readings have some negative components to them, just as 
all people have some problems to work on. In the reading for 
Hal Allen in Chapter 7, the basic energy expressed has a strong 
positive direction so that the inclusion of some negative com¬ 
ments does not detract from the basically constructive tone. 
This is typical of most readings. In the reading which follows, 
however, the doubled core elements create such a strong 
negative potential that a constructive tone can only be 
established if the reading clearly emphasizes the positive poten¬ 
tial while still effectively stating the negative. 

The doubled core element readings have a slightly different 
cast depending on the age of the subject. In my experience, in 
subjects between birth and age twenty, the negative energy is 
usually strongly expressed, the positive energy likely to be in 
disbalance. In the delineation, describe the negative potential 
as the probable present state, but emphasize the positive poten¬ 
tial and the direction to its achievement as desirable and viable 
objectives. 

Between the ages of twenty and forty, a subject will usually 
come to grips with the alternatives. More often than not, the 
obstacles will, to a large extent, be overcome. A delineation 
given during this time would give almost equal weight to the 
positive and negative potentials, but would stress the consider¬ 
able advantages of solving the life problems. 

After age forty, there is a strong possibility that the subject is 
proceeding primarily with his positive potential, perhaps with 
minor fall-backs to earlier stages. The reading would empha¬ 
size the positive direction he has achieved and maintained, 
would discuss the negative potential as primarily a thing of the 
past. 


The following delineation covers those parts of the 22 steps of 
Chapter 7 which are affected by the doubled core elements. 
We are reading for a fictitious subject, and assuming that the 
reading is given somewhere near Hilde’s thirtieth birthday. 





CHAPTER 9: CORE WITH REPEATED NUMBERS 


93 


We’ll proceed as we did in Chapters 7 and 8. We’ll first list 
each step, followed by a general explanation when necessary. 
We will then indicate, in italics, precisely where the informa¬ 
tion for Hilde’s specific delineation is to be found, and then 
show that portion of her synthesis derived by following the in¬ 
structions. The actual delineation will be shown indented. 


STEP 1 

DERIVE THE ELEMENTS OF THE GORE. 

From the calculation instructions in Chapters 3 through 6: 

Hilde Agatha Parsons was born on July 21, 1950. There¬ 
fore, she has: 


Step-by-step 
partial core 
synthesis 
with doubled 
core elements 


7 Life Path 
7 Expression 
6 Soul Urge 
3 Birthday 


STEP 2 

EXPRESS THE CENTRAL FOCUS OF THE LIFE PATH. 

The central focus remains the same irrespective of the other 
core elements. 

From chart 2: the life path copy the central focus of the 7 
Life Path shown in the upper horizontal division. 

Learn th& peace of mind that comes with knowing 
yourself. You have a good mind and a fine intui¬ 
tion. You must study and contemplate, learn not 
to judge from appearances, but search for the hid¬ 
den truths. Your life should be devoted to analyz¬ 
ing the world about you, learning to trust your in¬ 
tuition, developing until you reach the highest 
levels of wisdom. You must not emphasize 
material things in your life, but rather must 
become aware of the non-material forces. You 
must learn to spend time by yourself without feel¬ 
ing isolated. You must learn to wait for oppor¬ 
tunities which work to your advantage rather than 
actively seeking opportunities. Amid the hurly- 
burly of the world, your development depends on 
your ability to retire into yourself to find faith and 
peace. 






94 


PART II: THE CORE 


STEP 3 

EXPRESS THE SUB-FOCUS OF THE BIRTHDAY. 

This step is not related to the doubled core elements. Proceed as 
in Chapter 7. 

STEP 4 

EXPRESS THE HARMONY OR DISCORD OF THE LIFE 
PATH/BIRTHDAY ASPECT. 

This step is not related to the doubled core elements. Proceed as 
in Chapter 7. 

STEP 5 

DETERMINE THE HARMONY OR DISCORD OF THE 
LIFE PATH/EXPRESSION AND THE LIFE PATH/SOUL 
URGE ASPECTS. 

Although we have not yet delineated the Expression and the 
Soul Urge, we must, at this point, determine the aspects related 
to the Life Path because that harmony or discord will modify 
the Life Path Characteristics and negative expression expressed 
in Steps 6 and 7. 

From chart 6: the aspects: 

7 Life Path! 7 Expression is usually very discordant. 

Extremely self-contained and inflexible. A “different” point of 
view that may appear to others as considerably eccentric. Diffi¬ 
cult to get to know—purposely puts others off because she is 
more comfortable keeping her distance from others, 
or 

Timid, shy, retiring. Very dependent on others and most 
resentful of that dependency. Efforts to stand alone often 
thwarted. 

Possible approach to alleviate difficulties: she must work to ex¬ 
press more freely. She has to learn to take advantage of oppor¬ 
tunities by being more adaptable. She must also learn to express 
feelings in an honest manner, rather than hiding them. 

7 Life Path/6 Soul Urge is usually discordant. The potential of 
the 6 for responsibility and concern for others conflicts with the 
introspective potential of the 7. 

From chart 3: the expression read the 7 Expression and from 
chart 4: the soul urge read the 6 Soul Urge to become 
familiar with the basic reading for these elements. 

Not only is the Life Path!Expression usually very discordant, 




CHAPTER 9: CORE WITH REPEATED NUMBERS 


95 


but the Life Path I Soul Urge is usually discordant, too. That’s a 
lot of negative energy to overcome! Remember that Hilde, at 
age thirty, is likely to have a lot of awareness of her problems 
and is likely to be in the process of transforming her energies to 
more positive directions. The delineation could provide an ac¬ 
tive boost to Hilde’s desire for transformation. 

STEP 6 

EXPRESS THE CHARACTERISTICS OF THE LIFE PATH. 

Modify the Life Path characteristics based on the aspects found 
in Step 5. 

From chart 2: the life path list the characteristics of the 7 
Life path from the second horizontal division. Study each trait 
to determine the effect of the predominant discord with the 7 
Expression and the 6 Soul Urge. Modify the characteristic to ex¬ 
press this effect. 

You are likely to have a “different" point of view 
because you probably operate on a considerably 
different wavelength than others. This will prob¬ 
ably prove an extremely powerful tool for you, be¬ 
cause it will give you access to unique solutions 
and unique approaches to problems which just 
aren't available to other people. 

At your age, you may have discovered that you 
sometimes-have trouble communicating these spe¬ 
cial insights. Others may have difficulty under¬ 
standing you or may even look at some of your 
approaches as eccentric. I suspect you're working 
on improving your communication so that your 
messages can be delivered with maximum impact. 
If, at times, you feel confused about some of these 
unusual ideas, it may be helpful to meditate or talk 
to a close friend to clarify the areas of confusion. 

The 7■ 7 emphasizes the problems of the “differentness. ” The 
first paragraph expresses the very positive potential, the second 
paragraph discusses the problem and the solutions to the prob¬ 
lem. Because of Hilde’s age, the second paragraph is phrased on 
the assumption that she is already working on helping herself. 

The short paragraph in Chart 2 on the “differentness” charac¬ 
teristic has been considerably changed to account for the effect 
of the 7■ 7 potential. 

I expect that you started out in life as a person 





96 


PART II: THE CORE 


who was difficult to know well. You may have ap¬ 
peared cool and aloof, possibly timid, shy and re¬ 
tiring. I know that the distance you expressed in 
your early years was probably a surface veneer 
you felt you needed for protection. You've prob¬ 
ably worked on overcoming this need to stand 
apart, have probably learned how to express your 
feelings far more openly and honestly than before. 
Continue your work in this area. The more open 
your feelings, the less distance you'll feel with 
others and the easier it will be to further your 
interests. 

Again, the Chart 2 paragraph has been substantially revised to 
account for the 7- 7 energy. When the positive aspects of the 6 
Soul Urge are described, special emphasis should be placed on 
Hilde’s potential to be sympathetic, kind and generous and to 
give out much friendship, affection and love, as described in 
chart 4: the soul urge. You may even want to mention this 
positive potential in the paragraph above and reiterate it in the 
Soul Urge description. 

You're likely to be introspective, somewhat turned 
in on yourself. You probably often appear reserved 
and thoughtful. There's another part of you, how¬ 
ever, that expresses much in the way of friendship 
and affection, even shares some of the deep emo¬ 
tions. I expect that more of the second energy is 
expressed now than in your younger years. Con¬ 
tinue to bring out that loving potential. 

Here, we specifically mention the 6 Soul Urge as a contrast to 
the reserved approach. But the introspective quality is stated 
clearly, too. Don’t distort the delineation because of the dif¬ 
ficulty of expressing the negative traits — rather, learn to express 
them in a constructive light. 

You probably primarily depend on yourself. . . . 

The delineation would continue with the characteristics from 
Chart 2, strongly modified by the discordant energies. 

STEP 7 

EXPRESS THE CHARACTERISTICS OF THE BIRTHDAY. 

This step is not related to the doubled core elements. Proceed as 
in Chapter 7. 




CHAPTER 9: CORE WITH REPEATED NUMBERS 


97 


STEP 8 

DISCUSS THE NEGATIVE EXPRESSION OF THE LIFE 
PATH. 

For most individuals, like Hal Allen in Chapter 7, the negative 
expression is determined, to a strong extent, by the free will 
and the environment, although it’s also related to the Life 
Path/Expression aspect and the Life Path/Soul Urge aspect. For 
Hilde, though, the doubled core elements will tend to produce 
a negative approach to the Life Path, particularly in her early 
years. 

From chart 2: the life path read the negative expression of 
the 7 Life Path in the third horizontal division. Since the delin¬ 
eation is being given in Hilde’s thirtieth year, treat the negative 
expression as something that has probably been at least partial¬ 
ly transformed. 

I've already mentioned your tendency to be intro¬ 
spective and self-centered. Sometimes, a person 
with your chart configuration emphasizes these 
characteristics to become a virtual recluse. If this 
did occur in your early years, I suspect you found 
that the lack of contact was uncomfortable and 
made it difficult to grow and develop. 

Your chart indicates a strong inner life. If you 
found this introverted path of little satisfaction, 
particularly as a child or young adult, you may 
have tried to ignore your inner resources, concen¬ 
trated instead on the gratifications of the material 
world. You probably found that this approach did¬ 
n't give the satisfactions you expected. If you want 
to grow, you have a far better chance if you move 
onto your own track and develop your strong 
potentials. 

STEP 9 

EXPRESS THE ABILITIES OF THE EXPRESSION. 

The abilities remain the same irrespective of the other core 
elements. 

From chart 3: the expression copy the abilities of the 7 Ex¬ 
pression shown in the upper horizontal division. 

You have a good mind and good intuition. You're 







98 


PART II: THE CORE 


capable of analyzing, judging, discriminating. You 
like to search for wisdom or hidden truths. You 
often become an authority on subjects that inter¬ 
est you —technical, scientific, religious or occult. 
You have the potential to be an educator, philos¬ 
opher, researcher. 

You have an awareness of spiritual matters, al¬ 
though this may be a latent characteristic. You op¬ 
erate on a "different" wavelength which may give 
you unique approaches and solutions to problems. 

Although Hilde possesses these potential abilities, it’s probable 
that all aren't being used. The delineation should indicate these 
possibilities. 

It's possible that you're not using or developing all 
of these capabilities at this time. Some of your 
talents may have been used in the earlier part of 
your life and some may still be latent. Be aware of 
your capabilities, so that you can make use of 
them at appropriate times. 


STEP 10 

EXPRESS THE HARMONY OR DISCORD OF THE LIFE 
PATH/EXPRESSION ASPECT. 

From chart 6: the aspects we already know that the 7 Life 
Path! 7 Expression is very discordant. Rather than stress this 
strong negativity in one place, portions of the aspect were in¬ 
cluded in Step 6 and additional portions will be included in 
Steps 13 and 14. 


STEP 11 

EXPRESS THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE LIFE PATH/EX¬ 
PRESSION COMRINATION. 

The subject has a 7 Life Path and a 7 Expression. 7-7 = 0 
spaces. When there are no spaces between the combined 
elements, they are negatively directed and relatively ineffec¬ 
tive. There is no paragraph in the Table of Effectiveness in 
Chapter 7 to cover this because it is already covered in the very 
discordant Life Path/Expression aspect. The material is incor¬ 
porated as discussed in Step 10. 



CHAPTER 9: CORE WITH REPEATED NUMBERS 


99 


STEP 12 

DETERMINE THE HARMONY OR DISCORD OF THE EX¬ 
PRESSION/LIFE PATH AND THE EXPRESSION/SOUL 
URGE ASPECTS. 

The harmony or discord of the aspects related to the Expression 
will modify the Expression positive attitudes and negative at¬ 
titudes expressed in Steps 13 and 14. 

From chart 6: the aspects: 

The 7 Expression17 Life Path is usually very discordant. See 
Step 5. 

The 7 Expression/6 Soul Urge is similar to the 7 Life Path/6 
Soul Urge discussed in Step 5 and is usually discordant. The 
potential of the 6 for responsibility and concern for others con¬ 
flicts with the introspective potential of the 7. 

All the energy is either discordant or very discordant. 

STEP 13 

EXPRESS THE POSITIVE ATTITUDES OF THE EXPRES¬ 
SION. 

Modify the positive attitudes of the Expression based on the 
aspects found in Step 12. 

From chart 3: the expression list the positive attitudes of the 7 
Expression from the middle horizontal division. Study each 
trait to determine how it is affected by the strong discord with 
the 7 Life Path and the discord with the 6 Soul Urge. 

You probably have strong perfectionist tendencies 
which help you complete your projects in superb 
style. When you carry this to extremes or pursue 
perfection with an air of inflexibility, you may 
undermine your accomplishments. 

The perfectionist tendency is appreciated when used in a 
balanced manner. The inflexibility noted in the 7-7 negative 
potential is added. 

You have a very logical, rational approach, little 
affected by your emotions. 

This trait is not modified by the aspects. Although the 6 Soul 
Urge is emotional, the strength of the 7- 7 takes precedence. 

You are usually willing to work to understand 




100 


PART II: THE CORE 


deep, difficult subjects, to search for hidden fun¬ 
damentals. 

This trait is not modified by the aspects. 

Although you have the potential to be peaceful 
and poised, particularly in your mature years, your 
self-contained nature and your tendency to be shy 
and retiring may stand in the way of achieving this 
potential with ease. 

The 7-7 discord takes its toll here. 

STEP 14 

EXPRESS THE NEGATIVE ATTITUDES OF THE EXPRES¬ 
SION. 

Modify the negative attitudes of the Expression based on the 
aspects found in Step 12. 

From chart 3: the expression list the negative attitudes of the 
7 Expression from the bottom horizontal division. Study each 
trait to see how it is affected by the strong discord with the 7 
Life Path and the discord with the 6 Soul Urge. 

I hope you've learned to put more trust in others 
than you did when you were younger. Your self¬ 
containment is likely to make it an effort to get 
close, but your concern for others, if you can ex¬ 
press it openly, may lead the way to better relations. 

The self-containment, from the 7• 7 aspect, and the conflict be¬ 
tween concern and introspection, from the 7• 6 aspect, are both 
expressed. 

In your early years you displayed a lack of adapt¬ 
ability, at times an extreme inflexibility. These 
traits work against you. This is an area where 
change would be of much benefit. 

The 7■ 7 again. 

The introspection and self-centered characteristics described 
next in Chart 3 have already been covered in relation to the 
Life Path traits and are omitted here. 

There's certainly a loving, responsible side to your 
nature, but in the past, it's sometimes been over¬ 
powered by your critical, unsympathetic or intoler¬ 
ant attitudes. These latter characteristics are a 
strong obstacle to better relations with others. 



CHAPTER 9: CORE WITH REPEATED NUMBERS 


101 


The 7-6 conflict is expressed with, of course, a lot of emphasis 
on the positive 6 energy. 

You usually prefer to work alone. . . . 

The delineation would continue with the rest of the negative 
attitudes of Chart 3, modified by the discordant energies. 

STEPS 15 THROUGH 22 

Since these steps are not related to the doubled core elements, 
proceed as in Chapter 7. 


The Birthday is usually compared only with the Life Path to 
determine harmony or discord. If the doubled elements are the 
Birthday and the Life Path, this is still the only Birthday aspect 
described, but that aspect modifies both the Birthday and the 
Life Path characteristics. 

Change the steps of the core synthesis as follows: 

STEP 6. Express the characteristics of the Life Path, modified 
by the Life Path/Expression, Life Path/Soul Urge 
and Life Path/Birthday aspects. 


Special 
delineation: 
Birthday and 
Life Path 
of the 

same number 


STEP 8. Discuss the negative expression of the Life Path, 
modified by the Life Path/Expression, Life Path/ 
Soul Urge and Life Path/Birthday aspects. 


Although we’ve ►thought of the Birthday as only ten percent 
of the core, the discordant energy of the doubled elements is so 
strong that the Life Path/Birthday aspect should be weighted 
about the same as the Life Path/Soul Urge aspect. 


Let’s suppose, instead, that the Birthday and the Expression 
are the doubled core elements. Change the steps of the core 
synthesis as follows: 

STEP 7. Express the characteristics of the Birthday modified 
by the Life Path/Birthday aspect and the Expression/ 
Birthday aspect. 

STEP 12. Determine the harmony or discord of the Expres¬ 
sion/Life Path, Expression/Soul Urge and Expres¬ 
sion/Birthday aspects. 


Special 
delineation: 
Birthday and 
Expression 
of the 

same number 


STEP 13. Express the positive attitudes of the Expression, 
modified by the three aspects in Step 12. 



102 


PART II: THE CORE 


Special 
delineation: 
Birthday and 
Soul Urge 
of the 
same number 


Special case: 
master 
numbers 
as 

doubled 

core 

elements 


STEP 14. Express the negative attitudes of the Expression, 
modified by the three aspects in Step 12. 

Here, the Expression/Birthday aspect should be weighted 
about the same as the Expression/Soul Urge aspect. 


If the Birthday and the Soul Urge are the doubled 
core elements, change the steps of the core synthesis as follows: 

STEP 7. Express the characteristics of the Birthday modified 
by the Life Path/Birthday aspect and the Soul Urge/ 
Birthday aspect. 

STEP 20 Review the harmony or discord of the Life Path/Soul 
Urge, the Expression/Soul Urge and the Soul Urge/ 
Birthday aspects. 

STEP 21. Express the positive attitudes of the Soul Urge, 
modified by the three aspects in Step 20. 

STEP 22. Express the negative attitudes of the Soul Urge, 
modified by the three aspects in Step 20. 

Weight the Soul Urge/Birthday aspect somewhat less than 
the Soul Urge/Expression aspect. 


If the doubled element is a master number, the delineation 
would be a combination of the sample delineations in this 
chapter and in Chapter 8. The negative potentials of 22-22 and 
4-4 would dominate a reading where two elements are express¬ 
ing 22 energy and the negative potential of 11-11 and 2-2 
would similarly form a large portion of a reading where two 
elements are expressing 11 energy. The multiple comparisons 
described in Chapter 8 would be used. 

With 22-22, if the reading is for a person less than twenty 
years old, the 4 energy—particularly the negative 4 energy— 
would be the focus of attention. The 22 positive potential 
would be mentioned as a goal to be achieved, if possible, by 
the eventual overcoming of the negative 4 and negative 22 
potentials. 

If the subject is over twenty, the subject’s free will deter¬ 
mines whether the 4 energy or the 22 energy is uppermost, so 
both 22 and 4 would be given equal attention in the reading. 
No matter what the age, the nervous tension associated with 
-22-22 is likely to be a predominant factor. 


CHAPTER 9: CORE WITH REPEATED NUMBERS 


103 


An 11-11 reading would be similar, with the 2 energy ex¬ 
pressing strongly to about age twenty. The 2 or the 11, depen¬ 
dent on the subject’s free will, would express strongly after 
that. The 11-11 high tension is likely to be a strong character 
determinant at any age. 

If the core has a 22 element and a 4 element, the 22 would, 
of course, contain 22 and 4 potential and the 4 negative energy 
(from 4-4) would be prominent. The 22 energy would be 
covered as in Chapter 8, the 4-4 energy as described in this 
chapter. There would be no 22-22 energy present. With an 11 
element and a 2 element, the 11 would be read as in Chapter 8, 
the 2-2 as in this chapter, and there would be no 11-11 energy 
present. 


Doubled core elements occur with more frequency than you 
might expect. Considerably rarer are the subjects with tripled 
core elements. The tripled numbers are treated similarly to the 
doubled but, as you can appreciate, there is usually predomi¬ 
nantly negative energy at the beginning of life and very sub¬ 
stantial obstacles to be overcome. 

I expect that in the lives of public figures with tripled core 
elements (1) the transformation from negative to positive 
energy occurs out of public view, or (2) the contributions based 
on their positive potential are made in spite of the substantial 
problems of the negative potential. For example: 

Howard Hughes /Howard Robard Hughes), the eccentric in¬ 
dustrialist, was born on December 24, 1905. 

He had a 6 Life Path, 6 Expression, 6 Birthday (and a 9 Soul 
Urge) 

John Foster Dulles, the former Secretary of State, was born on 
February 25, 1888. 

He had a 7 Life Path, 7 Soul Urge, 7 Birthday (and a 5 Expres¬ 
sion) . 

And just think of this: 

Gore Vidal, the author, was born on October 3, 1925. 

He has a 3 Life Path, 3 Expression, 3 Soul Urge and 3 Birth 
day!!! 


Special case: 

quadrupled 

core 

elements 


Special case: 

tripled 

core 

elements 












PART III: 
CHARACTER 
DELINEATION— 
THE MODIFIERS 















CORE MODIFIERS 


107 



THE RELATION OF 
THE MODIFIERS 
TO THE CORE 


A complete delineation consists of a synthesis of the core with 
the modifiers. If we think of the core as a tennis ball, and the 
modifiers as pins stuck into the ball, a delineation would look 
like this: 



No matter how many pins you stick into the ball, the ball is 
clearly visible. NO MATTER HOW MANY MODIFIERS ARE 
ADDED TO THE CORE, THE CORE IS CLEARLY VISI- 
RLE. The modifiers are important; they sharpen the focus, add 
color and nuance, identify additional potential strengths and 
potential obstacles. But, it is the core’s focus which is sharp¬ 
ened; it is the core to which color and nuance are supplied; and 
it is the core to which additional potentials are added. 

















CHAPTER 10: USING THE MODIFIERS 


109 


CHAPTER 10 

USING THE MODIFIERS 


A MODIFIER IS ANY ELEMENT USED IN A CHARAC¬ 
TER DELINEATION WHICH IS NOT ONE OF THE CORE 
ELEMENTS. In each reading, there are usually between ten 
and twenty-five modifiers. 

A MODIFIER NUMBER IS THE NUMBER—1 THROUGH 
9, 11 OR 22—CALCULATED FOR A PARTICULAR MODI¬ 
FIER IN A SPECIFIC DELINEATION. 

MODIFIER ENERGY (OR MODIFIER POTENTIAL) IS 
THE ENERGY (OR POTENTIAL) ASSOCIATED WITH 
THE MODIFIER NUMBER—the energy for individuation, 
independence and attainment associated with the 1, the energy 
devoted to relation and cooperation of the 2, etc. 

From our tennis ball and pins analogy we can surmise that 
THE MODIFIERS ALWAYS MODIFY THE CORE, never 
the other way round. But what does that mean in doing a 
reading? 

Let’s look at a core with a 3 Life Path, an 8 Expression, a 5 
Soul Urge and a 4 Birthday. Connected to this core are eleven 
modifiers. The eleven modifier numbers are 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8, 
9,11 and 22. In this simple case, with such diffused modifier 
energy, the core will be clearly visible and the modifiers will be 
secondary to the core elements. 

Suppose, instead, we have the same core with these modifier 
numbers: 4,4,4,4,4,4,5,5,5,5,5. We know from Part II that, in 
the core, the Life Path has the most energy, the Expression has 


Definitions 


How to 
group the 
energies by 
modifier 
number 





110 


PART III: THE MODIFIERS 


somewhat less energy, the Soul Urge has less energy than the 
Expression and the Birthday has least energy of all. Adding the 
modifiers changes the amount of energy in the core elements, 
but doesn’t change the relative position of the elements in 
regard to energy; the Life Path still has the most energy, the 
Birthday the least. 

In the example under discussion, the core energies by them¬ 
selves would be divided like this: 

3 energy 00009900 Life Path = 40% 

of core energy 

8 energy 0 0 0 0 9 0 Expression = 30% 

of core energy 

5 energy 0 # # 0 Soul Urge = 20% 

of core energy 

4 energy 0 0 Birthday = 10% 

of core energy 

The modifier energies would be added with the understand¬ 
ing that the relative standing of the 3,8,5 and 4 energy stays un¬ 
changed. With the modifiers added, our diagram would look 
like this: 

3 energy 0 0 0 0 9 € 

8 energy 0 9 0 9 0 4 

5 energy 0 9 0 9 O 0 

4 energy 0 0 O O O 

Even though there are six modifiers with a modifier number 
of 4, there is still more 5 energy than 4 energy expressed in the 
total. Even though there are five modifiers with a modifier 
number of 5 and no modifiers with a modifier number of 8, 
there is still more 8 energy than 5 energy expressed in the total. 

In the delineation, the relative position of the core elements 
is expressed by: 

1. How many pages (or how much time) is devoted to each ele¬ 
ment. In this example, the discussion of the 3 energy might 
occupy eight paragraphs, while the discussion of the 8 
energy would be covered in six paragraphs. 

2, The emphasis placed on each element. The paragraphs de¬ 
voted to the 3 energy might start: “The strongest potential 
you have is. ... while the paragraphs devoted to the 4 
energy might begin “In addition to the energies already 
described, you also have, in a more limited way, ...” 

By expressing the relative position of the core elements in the 
delineation, the core stays clearly visible and the modifiers are 
relegated to their significant, but secondary , role. 


added 5 energy 
added 4 energy 







CHAPTER 10: USING THE MODIFIERS 


111 


In a typical delineation, all the modifier numbers don’t cor¬ 
respond with the numbers of the core elements. For instance, 
with that same core of 3 Life Path, 8 Expression, 5 Soul Urge 
and 4 Birthday, we might have the following modifiers: 1,1,1, 
1,1,4,4,8,8,8,8. The 4 modifier energy would, of course, be 
added to the 4 Birthday energy and the 8 modifier energy to the 
8 Expression energy. 

There isn’t any 1 energy in the core, but this energy, with its 
potential for independence and leadership, is related, I think 
you can see, to the 8 energy with potential for business, 
political or organizational leadership. We could group the 
energies, with the 1 modifier energy serving as a comfortable 
addition to the 8 core energy. The 1 modifier energy can then 
be expressed without limiting the visibility of the core. We 
would still, of course, preserve the relative positions of the core 
elements. 

Our core-plus-modifier diagram would look like this: 

3 energy ######## 

8 energy ••••••Od added 1 and 8 energy 

4 energy • • • • O O added 4 energy 

5 energy • • 

IF A MODIFIES NUMBEB IS NOT THE SAME AS THE 
NUMBEB OF A COBE ELEMENT, GROUP THE MODI¬ 
FIER WITH THE CORE ELEMENT IT MOST CLOSELY 
RESEMBLES. If there isn’t a 1 core element for instance, the 1 
modifier number pould be comfortably grouped with a core 
element of 8,4 or 5 energies. The 1 energy closely resembles 8 
energy, has many qualities related to 4 energy, and some quali¬ 
ties related to 5 energy. If there was an 8 core element, the 1 
modifier would best be related to it. If there wasn’t an 8 core 
element, the 1 modifier could be grouped with a 4 core ele¬ 
ment. And, if there were neither an 8 nor a 4 core element, the 
1 modifier would be grouped with a 5 core element. Let’s ex¬ 
press these relations in a simple table for easy reference: 

Group 1 modifier with 1,8,4,5 core elements 

2 2,11,6 

3 3,6,9 

4 4,1,8 

5 5,3,1 

6 6,2,9,3 

7 7,1 

8 8,1,4,22 

9 • 9,6,3,2,11 

11 11,2,9,6 

22 22,4,8 




112 


PART III: THE MODIFIERS 


IF THERE ARE MODIFIERS THAT DO NOT CLOSELY 
RESEMBLE ANY CORE ELEMENTS, GROUP THESE 
MODIFIERS TOGETHER. 

Given the same core with its 3 Life Path, 8 Expression, 5 Soul 
Urge and 4 Birthday and the following modifiers—1,1,2,4,6,6, 
7,8,8,8,11—the energies would be divided like this: 


3 energy ########0 added 6 energy * 

8 energy ICIIMOO added 1, 8 energy * 

5 energy # # # # 

4 energy • • O added 4 energy J 

Misc. O O added 2,7, 11 $ 

energy | 


’1 

I 

As you can see, the miscellaneous energies, those energies | 
that don’t group with the core energies, form a separate group 1 
with the least relative energy. | 


In the last example, we had 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8, and 11 energy. f 

By grouping, we were dealing with five groups instead of nine ■ 

energies. In the reading, the 3 and 6 energies would be \ 
delineated as one group. We’re not saying that the 6 energy is 
only used with the 3 energy. We are saying that it’s easier to ;i 
describe a person’s multitudinous characteristics coherently if 
the similar 3 and 6 traits are spelled out together and the addi¬ 
tional 3 and 6 traits are grouped in the same place. But, in life, ; 

of course, the 6 energy can be used with any (or all) of the other jj 

energies present. jj 

Any energy, of course, may be used with any other energy. i 

Only the individual can know how he or she combines the dif- | 

ferent energies. Aside from keeping the core visible in the delin- j 
eation, THE GROUPING OF ENERGIES ADDS TO THE 
COHERENCE OF THE DELINEATION. \ 


s 

I? 

Directing Up to this point, we’ve assumed that all modifiers add \ 
modifiers energy to the core energies. As a matter of fact, most modifiers jj 

do just that. Sometimes, they add positive energy—enlarging | 

on the constructive possibilities described by the core potential. 1 

Often, the modifiers add negative energy—introducing ob- | 

stacles or handicaps which tend to block the constructive I; 

potential. J 

There are a few modifiers which serve a different function. i 









CHAPTER 10: USING THE MODIFIERS 


113 


DIRECTING MODIFIERS DIRECT THE ENERGIES DE- 
SCRIRED BY THE CORE AND OTHER MODIFIERS. In the 
reading, these directing modifiers (described in Chapters 19 
and 20) are grouped together separately from both the core 
elements and the other modifiers. 


Calculation 

sheet 


The Life Path is enclosed with 2 circles 
The Expression is enclosed with IV 2 circles 
The Soul Urge is enclosed with 1 circle 
The Birthday is enclosed with V 2 circle 



In a typical delineation, then, we’ll be dealing with four or 
five different energy groups plus the directing modifier group. 
A good system of organizing our information will be important 
to the success of the reading. I’ve found it helpful to use simple 
symbols to emphasize the core elements: 


Figure 10-1 below is a calculation sheet for our old friend, 
Harlan William Allen, showing only the core elements we 
developed in Chapter 7. 


Date of calculation _ 

Name by which _ 

person is now known 

-• ..r* .> • 

The Life Path /May 12, 1941 

and Birthday -^ ~ Q _l ft 

calculation ^ ^ ® 


January 1981 
« HAL ALLEN 



The Soul Urge 
calculation 



(19) 1 

9 9 1 


+_ 6 _ 

1 5 



HARLAN WILLIAM ALLEN 


The Expression 
calculation 


819315 5933914 13355 

(27) 9 + (34) 7 + (17) 8 


-24 


Figure 10-1 

Calculation Sheet with Core Elements: 
Hal Allen 


By the time we’ve completed adding all the modifiers, our 
calculation sheet will be.bulging with data. It’ll look like Figure 
10-2 on page 114. 








114 


PART 111: THE MODIFIERS 


January 1981 
HAL ALLEN 


5 SUB-ELEMENT 
WITH 5 LIFE PATH- 
Chapter 13 


May 12, 1941 

+ Vp + 6 = 

5- 3 = 2 

6- 3 = 3 

3-2 = 1 CHALLENGE 


KARMIC DEBT 
Chapter 11 



LIFE PATH 1 
Chapter 3 

\ BIRTHDAY] 
Chapter 6 


-CHALLENGE 
Chapter 14 


+ (19) 1 + 6 = @- 


FIRST LETTER- 
Chapter 20 

FIRST VOWEL- 
Chapter 20 


GROWTH 
NUMBER —— 

Chapter 15 

Chapter 12: 

FOUR l’S INTENSITY POINT- 
2 KARMIC LESSON - 


1 1 

9 9 1 

1 5 

\ 

J1ARLAN 

WILLIAM 

ALLEN 

8 93 5 

5 33 4 

33 5 

(25) 7 + 

(15) 6 

+ 11 

819315 

5933914 

1 3355 

(27) ,9 + 

(34) 7 

+ (17) 8 


FIVE 3’S INTENSITY POINTY. 
3 PRIME INTENSIFIER ’ 


6 MODIFIED KARMIC LESSON- 

7 KARMIC LESSON - 


-four l’s 
—no 2 - 
-five 3’s 
one 4 
four 5’s 
—-no 6 - 
—-no 7 ■ 
one 8 
three 9’s 


= 24 =v( 6 


- {SOUL URGE] 
Chapter 5 


-SECRET SELF 
Chapter 17 


- {EXPRESSION] 
Chapter 4 


MATURITY 

NUMBER - -MATURITY NUMBER = 5 + 6 = 11/2 /- TEMPERAMENT 

Chapter 16 / Chapter 19 


PHYSICAL 

WME 

3-Average 

MENTAL 

HALANLLAALLN 

12-Strong 

EMOTIONAL 

RII 

3-Average 

INTUITIVE 


O-Weak 


Figure 10-2 

Complete Calculation Sheet: 
Hal Allen 







CHAPTER 10: USING THE MODIFIERS 


115 


The organization sheet (Figure 10-3 below) is helpful in clari- Organization 
tying the energy groups. sheet 

Column A lists the different energies from 0 through 22. 

(Yes, there is one modifier, the Challenge, where the 0 
sometimes occurs.) 

Column C, the center column, is specially outlined. Here, 
we list all the energy which, depending on the person’s will, 
can be used with positive or negative potential. This energy in¬ 
cludes all the core elements and some of the modifiers. 

Column B, the positive energy column, lists the modifiers 
with an excess of a specific energy, usually indicating a positive 
potential. 


♦ 


0 





1 





2 





3 





4 





5 





6 

f' k 

- 



7 

(Ti 





8 





9 





11 





22 





DIRECTING 

MODIFIERS ® 

© 


Figure 10-3 
Organization Sheet 





116 


PART III: THE MODIFIERS 


Column D, the negative energy column, lists the modifiers 
with a lack of a specific energy or an imbalance which pro¬ 
duces a negative potential. 

Column E lists the energy group with which each energy will 
be identified for the purposes of the delineation. 

Row F lists the directing modifiers. 

Row G lists miscellaneous information. 

Hal Allen’s If we start to fill out the organization sheet with the core 
organization elements describing Harlan William Allen (or Hal Allen for 
sheet s ^ ort )’ l°°k like Figure 10-4 below. 



Figure 10-4 

Organization Sheet with Core Elements 





CHAPTER 10: USING THE MODIFIERS 


117 


An arrow in the left-hand column emphasizes the core ele¬ 
ment energy groups. 

In the right-hand column, each core element will, of course, 
be identified with the energy group with its own element 
number. 

Let’s add Hal’s modifiers to the organization sheet (Figure 
10-5 on page 118). Instead of naming the modifier, let’s use a 
big black dot for each modifier. 

In the right-hand column, we see that most of the energy is 
grouped with the core energy. Only the 7 energy, shown in 
parentheses, doesn’t closely resemble any core energy. For Hal’s 
delineation, the core and modifier energies would appear like 
this: 


5 energy 

6 energy •••###000 


9 energy • • • • O O 

3 energy fiOOO 
Misc. 

energy Q 


O O O O added 5 and 1 
energy 

added 6 and 2 
energy 

added 9 and 11 
energy 

added 3 energy 
added 7 energy 


Just looking at Hal’s organization sheet, even with dots sub¬ 
stituted for the modifiers, we can begin to see how much data is 
supplied by the modifiers. Without knowing any more about 
them, we can start to understand how the modifiers color the 
core. 

Independence or attainment is likely to be impor¬ 
tant to Hal {two 1 modifiers). He is apt to show 
strong independent feelings ( positive 1 modifier) 
tempered with difficulties with independence 
[negative 1 modifier). He's probably good at ex¬ 
pression and is capable of expressing the joy of liv¬ 
ing ( two positive 3 modifiers). Hal is likely to be a 
responsible person ( neutral 6 modifier added to 6 ex¬ 
pression) but may have more responsibility than he 
expects ( negative 6 modifier). 

Using only the keywords for some of the modifiers, we begin 
to have a much fuller picture of our fictitious Hal. (Read the 
above paragraph along with the summary of Hal’s core on page 
71.) In the next chapters, we’ll introduce all the modifiers 
commonly used, define them, weight them and clarify the 
special energies they bring. We’ll show how to integrate each of 





PART III: THE MODIFIERS 


the modifiers into a reading. In Chapter 21, we’ll add all of 
Hal’s modifiers to his core to produce a complete delineation. 
By the end of Part III, you’ll have all the information for basic 
character delineation. 



Figure 10-5 

Organization Sheet with Black Dots for Modifiers 

There’s a full-size blank organization sheet (Figure 10-6 on 
page 119). You may want to make copies and use it in organiz¬ 
ing the data for your own delineations. 




















CHAPTER 10: USING THE MODIFIERS 



Figure 10-6 
Organization Sheet 


































CHAPTER 11: THE KARMIC DEBTS 


121 


CHAPTER 11 

SIGNIFICANT DIFFICULTIES: 
THE KARMIC DEBTS 


A KARMIC DEBT IS A SIGNIFICANT DIFFICULTY 
ENCOUNTERED IN THIS LIFE AS PAYMENT FOR THE 
MISAPPLICATION OF ENERGIES IN A PAST LIFE. When 
present, a Karmic Debt is a very important modifier. 


In calculating the Life Path, Expression, Soul Urge and 
Birthday, the elements are reduced to a single digit or master 
number. If the number “behind” the single digit is a karmic 
number, the subject has a Karmic Debt. The karmic numbers 
are 13, 14, 16 and 19. 

4 reduced from 13 represents a 4 element with a 13 Karmic Debt. 

5 reduced from 14 represents a 5 element with a 14 Karmic Debt. 

7 reduced from 16 represents a 7 element with a 16 Karmic Debt. 

1 reduced from 19 represents a 1 element with a 19 Karmic Debt. 

Look back at Hal Allen’s Life Path calculation on page 113. 
As you can see, he has a 14 Karmic Debt along with the 5 Life 
Path. 

The Karmic Debt occurs in the Birthday for those born on 
the 13th, 14th, 16th and 19th of any month. 


chart 7: the karmic debt on page 306 describes the different 
Karmic Debts. The upper horizontal division describes the 
reason for the debt and the general characteristics expressed 
when a core element is a karmic number. The other horizontal 


Definition 


Calculation 


Chart 7: 
The Karmic 
Debt 


122 


PART 111: THE MODIFIERS 


Commentary 


divisions express the specific effect on the Life Path, Expression 
and Soul Urge. The specific effect on the Birthday is already 
included in the description of the Birthday in chart 5: the 

BIRTHDAY. 


I express the significance of the Karmic Debt by writing the 
element as 13/4, 14/5, 16/7 or 19/1. The strong characteristics 
of the Karmic Debt may be one of the forces dominating the 
life. The Debt, caused by misuse of some of a person’s forces in 
a previous existence, can be paid up in this life only by over¬ 
coming the strong negative effects of the very same forces. A 
Karmic Debt (sometimes called a Testing Number, Warning 
Number or Hidden Number) weighs a person down with 
negative potential. He must struggle against his own integral 
nature to pay the debt and balance the account. 

Energies, you recall, can be expressed on a broad continuum 
stretching from the extreme positive to the extreme negative. 
Without a Karmic Debt, a person is free to pick the position on 
the continuum where he chooses to express his energies. With 
the Debt, he is forced to start at the negative extreme. If he is 
willing to understand the Debt, accept the burden and exert 
the effort, he can move to a more positive expression of the 
energy. In that sense, the Karmic Debt might be thought of as a 
symbol of reconstruction or regeneration. 

The Debt is usually apparent to the individual, although he 
will often feel victimized by fate rather than responsible for the 
special experiences he has to face. If the delineation establishes 
the Debt as an energy which can be transformed by effort and 
awareness, the reading will serve an important end. 

With a Karmic Debt present, there is no way to determine if 
or when the individual will learn to overcome the substantial 
obstacles to his progress. Few people prevail over the impedi¬ 
ments by young adulthood. Many people (possibly most people) 
are still struggling with the negative emphasis of the Karmic 
Debt up to the age of forty. Until the handicaps are controlled, 
it’s difficult to reach anywhere near the full positive potential. 
With a Debt present, the positive potential can be thought of as 
a goal to be reached when the blockages are gone. 

Ted, for instance, with a 19/1 Expression, is likely to be so 
concerned with his own needs or so dependent on others that he 
will have difficulty approaching his executive and administra¬ 
tive capabilities for achievement and financial reward. Only 
when the negative 19/1 is understood and overcome can the 
positive 1 potential develop. 

The effect of the Karmic Debt is very strong when the Life 



CHAPTER 11: THE KARMIC DEBTS 


123 


Path or Expression is involved, less powerful with the Soul 
Urge, and weaker still with the Birthday. 

Many people, when given a reading, tend to concentrate on 
the negative aspects of the delineation. The Karmic Debt is 
probably the most negative information you are transmitting 
and must be handled with extreme sensitivity. Don’t gloss over 
the Karmic Debt because it is difficult to express positively. 
Rather, work on your delineation technique so that your de¬ 
scription of the Debt will contribute to an accurate portrayal of 
the individual’s basic structure and be helpful to him in under¬ 
standing his impediments and learning to overcome them. 


Here’s an example of the portion of a delineation expressing 
the Karmic Debt of Pierce, age 30, who has a 13/4 Expression. 
You’ll see how the delineation expresses the Debt’s powerful in¬ 
fluence. There are five steps involved: 

STEP A 

An explanation that the positive potential can be fully devel¬ 
oped only when the obstacles are overcome. 

The configuration of your chart indicates that, 
while you have some strong positive potential 
which can be developed, you started out in life 
with some blockages which must be overcome 
before you* can make the most of the positive 
energy. I can't tell whether you've already over¬ 
come the obstacles —some people manage early 
in life, others spend a good number of years strug¬ 
gling with the impediments. 

STEP B 

A description of the general effect of the Karmic Debt. 

From chabt 7: the karmic debt, 13/4 general description in the 
top row. 

You can't move ahead constructively unless you've 
overcome your obstinacy and dogmatism. You 
may feel limited and restricted, but if you ration¬ 
alize your situation, it's difficult to change to a 
more productive path. You must learn to accept 
the responsibility for the predicaments in which 
you find yourself. 


Sample 
portion of a 
delineation 







124 


PART III: THE MODIFIERS 


In order to approach your positive potential, you 
must learn to work hard, often far harder than your 
share a good part of the time. You must apply 
yourself to the work at hand, be aware of the 
larger picture while still completing all the details. 
You have to learn to accept the stringent limita¬ 
tions produced by the inordinate work load. If 
you choose to be lazy, indifferent, negative, or in¬ 
volved with trivia, the problems are likely to be 
magnified. 

STEP C 

A description of the specific effect of the Debt on the involved 
core element. This step is omitted for the Birthday since the 
specific effect is already included in the Birthday characteristics. 

From chart 7: the karmic debt. 1314 Expression description in 
the third row. 

You tend to use your abilities doggedly in a rigid, 
one-track direction. The intensity of your drive 
may work to your advantage but the effect of this 
drive is likely to be negated unless you widen your 
vision. 

STEP D 

A description of the negative characteristics of the core element. 
In a typical delineation, the negative traits are expressed as pit- 
falls to be avoided. With a Karmic Debt present, the negative 
characteristics are the probable traits expressed until such time 
as the handicaps are overridden. Be sure to include approaches 
to alleviate the expressed difficulties. 

From chart 3: the expression. The description of the negative 
characteristics of the 4 Expression are in the bottom row. 

You're likely to be frustrated by your feelings of 
limitation or restriction, though often of your own 
making or existing only in your imagination. You 
have to learn to see what limitations you yourself 
are bringing to a situation. 

Your fixed approach works against you. You must 
learn to be more adaptable and flexible. 

You're likely to have strong likes and dislikes. Un¬ 
til they're moderated, they'll be stumbling blocks. 



CHAPTER 11: THE KARMIC DEBTS 


125 


Your tendency to be bossy, dominant and exces¬ 
sively disciplinarian will probably irritate others. 
You have to learn to get on better with family and 
friends or be prepared for much struggle. 

You tend to concentrate on the details to the ex¬ 
clusion of the big picture. Unless you can see the 
forest instead of the trees, you're working against 
your best interests. 


STEP E 

If the subject accepts reincarnation, you may want to conclude 
by specifically mentioning the Karmic Debt. 

From, chart 7: the karmic debt. 13/4 general description in 
top row. 

Your requirement of hard work and your tendency 
to rigidity are payments to balance a karmic debt 
developed from a lack of application to work in a 
previous life. 

There’s some repetition here, just like there was in the core 
synthesis. Don’t worry about it. We’re learning some basic 
principles. In Part IV, Volume 2, we’ll polish up the delineation 
and dispense with the repetition. 

The energies should be delineated so that the subject can 
help his development by (a) accepting certain consequences of 
the energy as a part of his life, and (b) learning to transform 
negative into positive potential. 


You’ll find that about half of your subjects will have a Kar¬ 
mic Debt. Ten percent or so of my readings have involved peo¬ 
ple with two Karmic Debts. There are even a few people with 
more than two, but they are rare. 

If there’s more than one Debt, it is handled in the same man¬ 
ner except that more than one element is modified. If there’s a 
multiple Debt involving the same number (as with a 19/1 Ex¬ 
pression and a 19/1 Soul Urge), the effect of the Karmic Debt 
permeates the core along with the negative vibrations of the 
doubled number. Make sure to express this difficult combina¬ 
tion so that the forces can be used constructively. 


The 

significance 
of the 
number of 
Karmic 
Debts 






An example 


Hal Allen’s 
organization 
sheet 


Hal Allen’s 
delineation 


PAR T III: THE MODIFIERS 


There’s no question that a person’s life shows the significant 
effect of a Karmic Debt. It is clear, though, that a knowledge 
and acceptance of a Debt will add to the subject’s constructive 
development. 

Catherine, for example, is a woman in her late twenties with 
a 16/7 Life Path and a 16/7 Expression. SEVENTY PERCENT 
OF HER CORE ENERGY IS (a) KARMIC AS WELL AS 
(b) A REPEATED NUMBER. Her life, as she described it to 
me, had been a succession of broken romances and continued 
job changes. Much of her energy had been spent in efforts to 
maintain a long relation or a job she liked, but her efforts had 
proved in vain. A year before her reading, she had recognized 
that she was not fated to have an ongoing romance or a con¬ 
tinuing position. Acceptance of this transient state of affairs 
had considerably improved her life. The impermanence con¬ 
tinued, but now she enjoyed her pleasures when they occurred 
rather than being caught up in her fear of their loss. When I ex¬ 
plained the nature of her Karmic Debt, she was pleased that 
she had already, on her own, understood the situation. My ex¬ 
planation served as a reminder of her basic structure and a 
reinforcement to her positive attitude. 

Catherine, like anyone with a Karmic Debt to repay, found 
her life substantially affected, but she had used her own efforts, 
as anyone can if they so desire, to exchange the negativity for a 
growing life. 

Hilde Agatha Parsons (page 93 in Chapter 9) has a 7 Life 
Path and a 7 Expression. You may want to compare the effects 
of the 7-7 energy in her reading with the effects noted here 
with Catherine’s 16/7-16/7. 


At the end of each chapter dealing with modifiers, we’ll ex¬ 
amine the effect of each modifier on Hal Allen, our fictitious 
subject from Chapter 7. In Chapter 21, we’ll combine all of 
Hal’s modifiers with his core synthesis to produce a complete (if 
still too wordy) character delineation. 

Hal has a 14/5 Karmic Debt associated with his Life Path, as 
mentioned at the beginning of the chapter. His Karmic Debt is 
placed in the 5 modifier row on the organization sheet—in the 
negative energy column (Figure 11-1 on page 127). 


In Hal Allen’s complete delineation in Chapter 21, the 14/5 
Karmic Debt strongly modifies the description of Hal’s 5 Life 
Path. 


CHAPTER 11: THE KARMIC DEBTS 



Figure 11-1 

Organization Sheet with Karmic Debt added 

Step 6, page 200, expresses the characteristics of the 5 Life Path. 

Here, the Karmic Debt adds: 

STEP A. An explanation that the positive potential can be ful¬ 
ly developed only when the obstacles are overcome. 
Some of the characteristics are revised because of the 
presence of the Debt. 

Step 8, page 203, discusses the negative expression of the 5 Life 

Path. Here, the Karmic Debt adds: 

STEP B. Changes in the negative expression due to the general 
effect of the Karmic Debt. 
















128 


PART III: THE MODIFIERS 


STEP C. Changes in the negative expression due to the specific 
effect of the Debt on the Life Path. 

STEP D. Description of the negative characteristics as prob¬ 
able traits expressed until handicaps are overridden. 

STEP E. Mention of the Karmic Debt in relation to reincarna¬ 
tion. 




CHAPTER 12: THE INTENSITY TABLE 


129 


CHAPTER 12 


STRONG POSITIVE AND 
NEGATIVE CHARACTERISTICS: 
THE INTENSITY TABLE 
THE KARMIC LESSONS 
THE INTENSITY POINTS 
THE PRIME INTENSIFIER 


THE INTENSITY TABLE IS A TABLE DERIVED FROM 
THE LETTERSTN THE NAME. IT INDICATES CHARAC¬ 
TERISTICS, IN ADDITION TO THE CORE CHARACTER¬ 
ISTICS, WHICH ARE OF ABOVE AVERAGE OR BELOW 
AVERAGE INTENSITY. 

When calculating the Expression, the number value of each 
letter is written below the letter. The Intensity Table (some¬ 
times called the Inclusion Table) simply sums up how many l’s, 
2’s, 3’s, etc. are present in the name. 

Well use Paul McCartney’s birthname as an example: 

james paul McCartney 
11451 7133 433192557 

Total the quantity of each number and you have his Intensity 
Table: 

no 6 -•- 

two 7’s 

no 8 -*- 

one 9 


five l’s 
one 2 
four 3’s 
two 4’s 
three 5’s 


Definitions 

and 

calculations 




130 


PART III: THE MODIFIERS 


For McCartney, the lack of 6 and 8 is emphasized by arrows 
placed to the right of the table. 

When a number is lacking, that lack indicates the presence of 
a Karmic Lesson. A KARMIC LESSON IS A MODIFIER 
INDICATING POTENTIAL WEAKNESSES, DIFFICUL¬ 
TIES OR OBSTACLES BECAUSE THE MODIFIER EN¬ 
ERGY HAS NOT BEEN EXPERIENCED IN PAST LIVES. 
A Karmic Lesson is much less insistent than a Karmic Debt, but 
is still an important modifier. 

In an average Intensity Table, the numbers would appear in 


these quantities: 

Average Quantity Number 

three _ 1 

one _ 2 

one, two_ 3 

one_ 4 

three, four, five_ 5 

one, two_ 6 

zero, one_ 7 

one _ 8 

three _ 9 


Whenever the quantity of a number exceeds or falls below 
the average, an Intensity Point is established. AN INTENSITY 
POINT IS A MODIFIER INDICATING CHARACTERIS¬ 
TICS OF ABOVE AVERAGE OR BELOW AVERAGE IN¬ 
TENSITY. It’s an important modifier. 

Comparing McCartney’s table to the average table, McCart¬ 
ney has the following Intensity Points (Modifier numbers which 
have been established as Karmic Lessons are not duplicated as 
Intensity Points): 

five l’s exceed the average 
four 3’s exceed the average 
two 4’s exceed the average 
two 7’s exceed the average 
one 9 falls below the average 

THE PRIME INTENSIFIER, THE INTENSITY POINT AP¬ 
PEARING IN THE LARGEST QUANTITY, INDICATES 
STRONG AND OBVIOUS CHARACTERISTICS. It’s an 
important modifier. 

There’s an exception to be noted here. The 5 often appears in 
great profusion in the Intensity Table—remember that even 
five 5’s is just an average quantity. Use the 5 as a Prime Intensi- 
fier only if (a) there are more 5’s than any other number, and 
(b) there are six or more 5’s. 






CHAPTER 12: THE INTENSITY TABLE 


131 


In Paul McCartney’s Intensity Table, there are only three 
5’s. There are five l’s, and the 1 is his Prime Intensifier. 

In many charts, two or more numbers appear in the greatest 
quantity. If two numbers appear in greatest quantity, there are 
two Prime Intensifiers. (Again, the 5 would be a Prime Intensi¬ 
fier here only if there were six or more 5’s.) If more than two 
numbers appear in greatest quantity, the energy is too diffused 
and there is no Prime Intensifier. 

The Intensity Table often yields many modifiers. In Paul 
McCartney’s example, we find eight modifiers: 

Karmic Lessons—6, 8 

Intensity Points—five l’s, four 3’s, two 4’s, 
two 7’s, one 9 

Prime Intensifier—1 


chart 8: the intensity table on page 312 describes the 
modifiers derived from the Intensity Table. The average quan¬ 
tity of l’s, 2’s, etc. is shown in the third row. Above the 
average, in the second row, are descriptions of Intensity Points 
where the quantity exceeds the average. As you can see, there 
are usually two descriptions for each modifier number. One 
description, somewhat above average quantity, usually in¬ 
dicates strong positive traits associated with the particular 
modifier energy, along with some negative characteristics re¬ 
quiring work. The’ second description, with an even greater 
than average quantity, indicates the very strong positive traits 
along with very strong negative traits brought about by the ex¬ 
cess of modifier energy. 

The top row describes the characteristics of the Prime In¬ 
tensifier. The traits have already been noted in the row below, 
but the Prime Intensifier indicates that these particular qual¬ 
ities are likely to form a very strong and obvious part of the 
personality. 

Just as the rows above the average quantity describe an ex¬ 
cess of modifier energy, the rows below describe a lack of 
energy. In the fourth row, are descriptions of the Intensity 
Points where the quantity is less than average. 

These Intensity Points always describe weaknesses or diffi¬ 
culties. 

The bottom two rows discuss the Karmic Lessons. If there is 
a lack of a number in a name and that number is not one of the 
core elements, the description of the Karmic Lesson will be 
found in the bottom row. If there is a lack of a number in a 


Chart 8: 

The Intensity 
Table 








132 


PART Ill: THE MODIFIERS 


name and that number is one of the core elements, this 
Modified Karmic Lesson is described in the second row from 
the bottom. Both a Karmic Lesson and a Modified Karmic 
Lesson indicate a significant coloration of the core, but the in¬ 
tensity of the lesson is somewhat mitigated with the Modified 
Karmic Lesson because of the energy available in the core. 


Commen¬ 

tary: 

Intensity 

Points 


If there’s an average quantity of a number, the traits con¬ 
nected with that number are balanced, at least from the point 
of view of the Intensity Table. You’ll find many names where 
the quantity is never far from the average. In this common 
case, there is a relatively subtle emphasis on the characteristics 
described by the Intensity Points. The more significant traits 
are the ones where the quantity of the number diverges sharply 
from the average. 

An over-excess of 5, 7, or 8 will tend to give added impetus 
primarily to the positive traits associated with the modifier 
energies. Too many 3’s or 4’s will produce stress on both 
positive and negative traits. But too many l’s, 2’s, 6’s or 9’s will 
overemphasize the negative side of the energies. 

Imagine a person with six 3’s, far more than the average one 
or two. It’s true that there may be strong artistic talents ex¬ 
pressed, but there may also be a tendency to be self-centered 
and selfish, scattering energies or acting in an immoderate 
manner (from the 3 page, second row, of Chart 8). If the core 
already indicates a potential for self-centeredness with strong 1, 
4 or 8 energy, this Intensity Point will add to the stress on this 
characteristic. If, on the other hand, the core, with strong 2, 6, 
or 9 energy, indicates a giving, loving person, we would expect 
the addition of the six 3’s to describe a giving, loving person 
who is, at times, unexpectedly selfish or extravagant. 

The strength of the divergence is also significant when there’s 
a smaller quantity than average. 5 is usually present in a larger 
quantity than other numbers. 9 is often found in above average 
quantity. And 1 is generally present in average or slightly be¬ 
low average quantity (two or three). When 1, 5 or 9 is present 
in less than average quantity, a significant disbalance is being 
described. If there’s only one 1 or one 5 or one 9, the delin¬ 
eation will be strongly affected. 

The average quantity is not proportional to the number of 
letters in the name. Six 3’s or seven l’s are just as significant in a 
very long as in a very short name. If we find 


one 1 or five or more l’s 
four or more 2’s 
four or more 3’s 


CHAPTER 12: THE INTENSITY TABLE 


133 


four or more 4’s 
one 5 or seven or more 5’s 
four or more 6’s 
three or more 7’s 
three or more 8’s 
one 9 or five or more 9’s 

we can be sure that those Intensity Points will sharply alter the 
core description. 


The significance of the Prime Intensifier is similarly related 
to the divergence from the average. If the Prime Intensifier is, 
for example, four l’s (one above average), the person will find 
it important to follow his own bent and make sure his needs are 
met (from the 1 page, top row, of Chart 8), but the emphasis 
on this characteristic is not likely to be particularly intense. 
But, suppose the person has seven l’s. You can be sure that this 
person will work long and hard at meeting his personal needs. 
If the core indicates the possibility of strong, self-centered 
energies (1,4, or 8 stressed), you can be sure that the person will 
appear as a dominating, even bullying sort. If, on the other 
hand, the core describes a more giving person (2,6 or 9 empha¬ 
sized), the individual is likely to have less personal needs, but 
will, nevertheless, be sure to get those needs met. There’s likely 
to be a core of iron that becomes most obvious at times when 
those limited needs are not being satisfied. If there’s a conflict 
of core energies—such as 6 energy toward responsibility con¬ 
flicting with 5 energy toward freedom—the person’s discontent 
and frustration at meeting his confusing needs will be most 
apparent. 


Commen¬ 

tary: 

Prime 

Intensifier 


The Karmic Lesson represents energy to which a person has 
not been exposed in previous lifetimes. Whether the potential 
was purposely avoided or whether circumstances prevented the 
particular potential from surfacing is not clear, but the lack of 
exposure to the energy will make a strong mark on the subject 
in this lifetime. 

Presence of a Karmic Lesson indicates the presence of certain 
types of situations and the necessity to use specific energies to 
deal with these situations. If there’s a Karmic Lesson, there is 
no question that the situations will play an important part in 
the life. But the determination of whether the subject has the 
required energies or must develop them poses a more difficult 
question. Examination of the core and the other modifiers, 
often, but not always, provides some clues. 


Commen¬ 

tary: 

Karmic 

Lessons 





134 


PART III: THE MODIFIERS 


For example, Irene with a 4 Karmic Lesson is likely to face 
situations where an awareness of practicality, organization, 
hard work and concern with detail is required. (See the 4 page, 
bottom row, of Chart 8.) You can be sure that Irene is often go¬ 
ing to be involved in experiences where she must work slowly, 
surely, consistently; must start at the foundation and build 
with care, with concern for the details and patience to see the 
experiences through to completion. 

If Irene’s core and other modifiers primarily emphasize 
freedom and versatility, she will start out in life feeling 
restricted by situations demanding patient and careful atten¬ 
tion to detail. The experiences will require energies which she is 
unable to give and her development will be impeded as she 
struggles to develop the requisite energies. When Irene has 
learned her lesson and developed the required energies, the 
same or similar situations are still likely to be important in her 
life. Her learned ability to handle the situations, however, will 
not make them appear as obstacles. Rather, these experiences 
will now further her ability to grow and develop. 

If Irene has a 4 Karmic Lesson, and the core and modifiers 
indicate additional energies devoted to care, patience, hard 
work as well as approximately equal energies devoted to 
freedom and versatility, it isn’t possible to state whether the 
lesson poses an obstacle or not. You can only indicate the 
presence of the related situations, but you can’t determine 
whether Irene will use the energies to advantage. 

If Irene has a 4 Karmic Lesson, but also has core and modi¬ 
fier energies emphasizing care, patience and hard work, she 
will be born with the ability to handle the situations that will 
develop in that area, and her development will not be 
impeded. 


Commen- 

taiy: 

Modified 

Karmic 

Lessons 


When the number of the Karmic Lesson also appears as a 
core element, we have a Modified Karmic Lesson. The expe¬ 
riences related to the Karmic Lesson will be present, but there 
will also be strong core energy available to deal with the expe¬ 
riences. The presence of a Modified Karmic Lesson with posi¬ 
tive core potential indicates the innate ability to handle the 
situations which arise. Only if the core energy is expressing 
negatively (because of master numbers, doubled elements or 
Karmic Debts) will the situations prove an obstacle. 


Organization The modifiers derived from the Intensity Table appear as fol- 
sheet lows on the organization sheet (Figure 12-1): 








CHAPTER 12: THE INTENSITY TABLE 


135 


The Karmic Lesson (s) appear in the negative potential 
column. 

The Modified Karmic Lesson (s) appear in the negative 
potential column. 

The above-average Intensity Point(s) appear in the posi¬ 
tive potential column. 

The below-average Intensity Point(s) appear in the neg¬ 
ative potential column. 

The Prime Intensifier(s) appear in the positive potential 
column. 



as Black Dots 





136 


PART III: THE MODIFIERS 


Expressing 
the Intensity 
Table 
modifiers in 
delineation 


The modifiers discussed in this chapter are important, but 
they rarely stand out in a reading. Usually, the effect of these 
modifiers is blended with the effect of other modifiers to subtly 
color the basic picture presented by the core. There are two 
common instances where the effect of the modifiers is strongly 
expressed: 


a. When the Karmic Lesson indicates a situation which is 
distinctly conflicted with the other energies in the chart. 

b. When an above average Intensity Point diverges greatly 
from the average. 


Special 

cases 


Occasionally, you’ll meet an individual with no Karmic 
Lessons. This “old soul” has been reincarnated many times and 
has been exposed to all the lessons often enough to have some 
awareness of all of them. Don’t expect this person to have little 
difficulty in life. Rather, expect that this person, particularly 
on reaching maturity, is likely to present a well-balanced per¬ 
sonality and a depth of understanding. 

Note this lack of Karmic Lessons at the bottom of the organ¬ 
ization sheet (Figure 12-2 on page 137). Be sure to emphasize 
this extremely positive characteristic in the delineation. 

The old souls are rare—probably some five percent of the 
populace. Most people have one or two Karmic Lessons. Three 
Karmic Lessons aren’t even that far out of the ordinary. But if 
you find a subject with four or more Karmic Lessons, you are 
dealing with an individual who has not been exposed to about 
half of the energies that are available. A significant part of this 
individual’s life will be used in coming to grips with these 
myriad lessons. Even if the person has some strong positive core 
or modifier energies which help with some of the lessons, he is 
still likely to feel considerably blocked. 


When there are four or more Karmic Lessons, note this at the 
bottom of the organization sheet (Figure 12-3 on page 138) and 
express the resultant negative coloration in as constructive a 
manner as possible. 


Only rarely will you find a 1, 5 or 9 Karmic Lesson. The 
energies denoted by the 1, 5 or 9 are quite common, and the 
lack of that energy provides a very significant coloration—just 
a little weaker than a Karmic Debt. The subject with this lack 
has an obstacle to overcome that is likely to be one of the im¬ 
portant parameters in the character development. 


CHAPTER 12: THE INTENSITY TABLE 


137 



Figure 12-2 

Organization Sheet with No Karmic Lessons 


Almost as rare as old souls are individuals who have at least Rarity 
one 7 in their name. Perhaps ten percent of people will not G f the 7 
have a 7 Karmic Lesson, indicating that this ten percent is more 
spiritually evolved than those lacking the 7. In our material¬ 
istic society, the qualities missing because of the lack of the 7 
tend to be thought of as of little consequence, certainly of less 
consequence than the lack of any other number. If there is a 7 
Karmic Lesson and no 7 core element or other 7 modifier, you 
may want to ignore the 7 Karmic Lesson altogether in the 
delineation. That isn’t true of any other number. 













Figure 12-3 

Organization Sheet with Four Karmic Lessons 


Hal Allen’s We’ll calculate the Intensity Table for Hal Allen: 

calculation HARLAN WILLIAM ALLEN 

819315 5933914 13355 

four l’s 

no 2 -*- no 6 -*- 

five 3’s no 7 -*- 

one 4 one 8 

four 5’s three 9’s 
















CHAPTER 12: THE INTENSITY TABLE 


139 


From the Intensity Table, we find six modifiers: 

four l’s Intensity Point 

2 Karmic Lesson 
five 3’s Intensity Point 

3 Prime Intensifier 

6 Modified Karmic Lesson 

7 Karmic Lesson 


Hal Allen’s 
organization 
sheet and 
delineation 


For Hal, the organization sheet (Figure 12-4) suddenly is 
bulging with data. I don’t think of Hal’s Intensity Table as par- 



Figure 12-4 

Organization Sheet with Intensity Table Modifiers 








140 


PART III: THE MODIFIERS 


ticularly disbalanced, but there are enough divergences from 
the average to add a substantial number of modifiers. In many 
delineations, a better balanced Intensity Table might add only 
two or three modifiers rather than the six added here. 

Hal’s added modifiers are not of equal importance. Let’s 
discuss the added modifier energies in relation to the related 
core energies shown in the right-hand column. (This column, 
you’ll remember, lists the energy group with which each energy 
is identified for the purposes of this delineation, as determined 
by the table on page 111.) 

With the 5 Life Path energy, we include the delineation of 
the 1 Intensity Point. Four l’s is only one above average, but 
this is one of the cases where the above-average energy has a 
strong negative cast. Since the Life Path energy is the most po¬ 
tent energy, we are adding an important coloration. The Life 
Path energy, devoted to learning freedom and expressing versa¬ 
tility (Chart 2, 5 Life Path) has already been strongly colored 
by difficulties in learning to use freedom constructively (Chart 
7, 14/5 Karmic Debt) and now it is qualified by the tendency to 
act in a self-centered and dominating way (Chart 8, four l’s In¬ 
tensity Point). The fun that often is associated with a 5 Life 
Path seems quite different now that some colorations are 
added. Hal can overcome the obstacles and go on to the ulti¬ 
mate delight of using the positive potential of the 5 energy, but, 
unless he has some offsetting energies (which, as we proceed 
with the modifiers, we’ll find he doesn’t), he probably has a 
way to go to overcome the problem areas. (See Step 8, page 203 
of Hal’s delineation.) 

With the 6 Expression energy, we include the delineation of 
the 2 Karmic Lesson and the 6 Modified Karmic Lesson. We 
are adding two Karmic Lessons to the second most potent 
energy—obviously an important added coloration. Because of 
his 6 Expression, Hal tends to be responsible, helpful, loving 
and generous (Chart 8, 6 Expression). We can now expect that 
he will be called on to carry a far heavier share of responsibility 
than average (Chart 8, 6 Modified Karmic Lesson), but he can 
certainly accomplish this with the 6 Expression energy. In addi¬ 
tion, Hal is likely to find himself in situations where sensitivity, 
consideration for others, and awareness of detail are required 
(Chart 8, 2 Karmic Lesson). With both 6 and 9 core energies, I 
would expect Hal to be capable of handling these types of situa¬ 
tions. (See Step 13, page 208, for the description of both 
lessons.) 

(The Life Path modifiers have added a strong negative cast to 
the Life Path energy, but the Expression modifiers have only 
indicated that Hal will get many opportunities to use the abil¬ 
ities he undoubtedly possesses. You might want to contemplate 




CHAPTER 12: THE INTENSITY TABLE 


141 


the divergence of the Life Path energy and the Expression 
energy. How is Hal going to handle that?) 

With the 9 Soul Urge energy, we have, as yet, no modifiers. 
We cannot add any coloration to the core description. 

With the 3 Birthday energy, we include the delineation of 
the five 3’s Intensity Point and the 3 Prime Intensifier. The 3 
Birthday energy is the least potent of the core energies, but five 
3’s represent a major divergence from the average of one or 
two. These modifiers, at first glance, seem to represent an im¬ 
portant coloration of only a small part of Hal’s total energy. 

Let’s look at that more closely. From Chart 5, 12 Birthday, 
we know that Hal is sensitive and emotional with creative abili¬ 
ty. These same potentials are displayed in the 6 Expression 
energy as well as the 9 Soul Urge energy. Three of the four core 
elements verify Harlan’s creative potential. This potential is not 
a small part of his total energy, but rather an extremely signifi¬ 
cant portion of that energy. 

Now, add the data from the modifiers. We see strong artistic 
talent, excellent imagination, strong capability with words 
(Chart 8, five 3’s Intensity Point) and these qualities are likely 
to be most obvious (Chart 8, Prime Intensifier 3). The major 
divergence from average of the Intensity Point produces an im¬ 
portant coloration of some of Hal’s major potential. (See Step 3, 
page 199 for the effect of the two 3 modifiers. Note how strong¬ 
ly the characteristics are emphasized.) 

The 7 Karmic Lesson does not group with any of the core 
energies and would be treated as a miscellaneous energy. 
(Because it’s a miscellaneous energy in this delineation, the 7 in 
the right-hand column of the organization sheet is shown in 
parentheses). With our current data (and even when we’ve 
looked at all the modifiers) this 7 Karmic Lesson is the only ex¬ 
pression of 7 energy. Since the 7 Karmic Lesson need be dis¬ 
cussed only when other 7 energy is available, we can ignore it 
in this delineation. 


















CHAPTER 13: SUB-ELEMENTS OF THE CORE 


143 


CHAPTER 13 


BEGINNING OBSTACLES: 
THE SUB-ELEMENTS 
OF THE CORE 


If a person was born on March 13, 1952, the Life Path 
calculation would, of course, look like this: 


March 13, 1952 

3 +4+8 



The 6 Life Path is the core element. 

THE 3, 4, AND 8 ARE SUB-ELEMENTS. The sub-elements 
sometimes introduce an important modifier. 


Let’s study a fictitious individual born on 
July 4, 1950 ^ 

7 + ,4,+ 6 - 17 


with the name of: 


1 + 7 + (20) 2 =10 = (T) 

1 1 6 9 6 5 

CARL HAROLD CHRISTOPHER 
3193 819634 38991267859 

(16)7+ (31)4 + (67) (13) 4 =15=^ 

Carl’s chart was constructed to illustrate two groupings of 
sub-elements forming two important modifiers. 


Definition 


Example 






144 


PART III: THE MODIFIERS 


Sub-element 
and core 
element with 
same number 


IF A SUB-ELEMENT IS THE SAME NUMBER AS THE j 

CORE ELEMENT, THE SUBJECT WILL PROBABLY \ 

START OUT IN LIFE EXPRESSING ONE (OR BOTH) | 
NEGATIVE EXTREMES OF THE POTENTIAL INSTEAD j 
OF THE POSITIVE POTENTIAL: j 

1. USING THE ENERGY SO EXCLUSIVELY THAT IT 

BECOMES PART OF A DISBALANCED APPROACH. i 
POSITIVE POTENTIAL MAY BE EXPRESSED AT THE ! 
SAME TIME. 1 

5 

2. ALMOST COMPLETELY IGNORING THE POTEN- | 

TIAL. i 

This is, of course, similar to the doubled core elements we jj 

discussed in Chapter 9. But consider this: § 

i 

If the Birthday (ten percent) and the Soul Urge (twenty I 
percent) have the same number, thirty percent of the |i 
core energy is doubled. jf 

If the Life Path (forty percent) and the Expression (thir- | 
ty percent) have the same number, seventy percent of | 

the core energy is doubled. ) 

With a doubled core element, thirty to seventy percent of the 
core energy is affected. I 

Here we’re dealing with only one element, so the effect tends .j 
to be less potent. jj 

If the Soul Urge is involved, twenty percent of the core j 

energy is doubled. | 

6 

If the Expression is involved, thirty percent of the core ) 
energy is doubled. | 

If the Life Path is involved, forty percent of the core 'i 
energy is doubled. 1 

(The Birthday isn’t included here since it has no sub- | 

elements.) | 

i? 

1 

I 

With an element and a sub-element doubled, twenty to forty 3 
percent of the core energy is affected. Although this is usually ;■ 

less than the doubled core element, you can see that, at times, | 

it may be extremely significant. | 

In Chapter 9, dealing with doubled core elements, two ! 

elements were involved and a substantial part of the delinea¬ 
tion was revised to show the negative impact. Here, we’re deal- J 
ing with only one element and less potent energy. Revise the 
portion of the delineation dealing with that element alone. 

In Carl’s chart at the beginning of the chapter, there is a 1 
sub-element along with the 1 Soul Urge. Carl will probably 






CHAPTER 13: SUB-ELEMENTS OF THE CORE 


145 


start out in life expressing one (or both) negative extremes of 
the 11 energy. 

From chart 6: the aspects, we find that 1-1 is usually very 
discordant, with: 

Overemphasis on self and own needs. Little concern for 
others 
or 

Timid, afraid to stand on own two feet. Afraid of stand¬ 
ing up for self. 

In Carl’s example, the negative 1-1 energy affects the 
description of the various parts of the Soul Urge alone: 

Step 15. Motives of the Soul Urge. 

Step 21. Positive attitudes of the Soul Urge. 

Step 22. Negative attitudes of the Soul Urge. 

The description in each of these steps will be modified by the 
1-1 description from Chart 6. The delineation would indicate 
that the positive potential can be well-expressed only when the 
obstacles—the negative potential— have been overcome. Like 
the repeated core elements, progress on the obstacles is usually 
significant between ages twenty and forty. If, as in this case, 
Carl is in his thirties, the delineation would be written assum¬ 
ing he’s made some progress against the obstacles. If Carl was 
under twenty, the delineation would be written assuming that 
he’s in the middle of the struggle to overcome these obstacles. 

By using the 1 • 1 only as a modifier of the specifically affected 
element (and not ’when the element is in aspect with another 
element), the modifier effect is delineated in proper proportion 
to its effect on the individual’s potential. 

The delineation is similar if two, three (or four) sub-elements 
have the same number as the core element. 


IF TWO SUB-ELEMENTS HAVE THE SAME NUMBER, 
THE SUBJECT WILL PROBABLY START OUT IN LIFE 
EXPRESSING ONE (OR BOTH) NEGATIVE EXTREMES 
OF THE POTENTIAL: 

1. USING THE ENERGY SO EXCLUSIVELY THAT IT 
BECOMES PART OF A DISBALANCED APPROACH. 


Two sub¬ 
elements 
with same 
number 


2. ALMOST COMPLETELY IGNORING THE PO¬ 
TENTIAL. 


This grouping is considerably less potent than the first one. 
Again, progress is usually made on the impediments between 
ages twenty and forty. 





146 


PART III: THE MODIFIERS 


In the delineation, the negative extremes would be de¬ 
scribed by the doubled number aspect (chart 6: the aspects). 
(For the purposes of this modifier, the Birthday is considered a 
sub-element of the Life Path.) 

In Carl’s example, there are two 4 sub-elements as part of his 
6 Expression. The delineation of this 4-4 modifier might read as 
follows: 

You probably started out in life feeling limited or 
tied down, although the restrictions you felt may 
have been of your own making or have sprung 
from your imagination. The limitations are likely 
to have been aggravated by your rigid attitudes, 
your stubbornness, your obsession with system 
and order or your concentration on details to the 
exclusion of the larger picture {4-4 aspect from 

CHART 6: THE ASPECTS). 

You may, at that time in your life, also have run in¬ 
to problems because of your tendency, at times, to 
be disorganized and irresponsible ( 4-4 aspect from 

CHART 6: THE ASPECTS). 

I suspect that, now that you're over thirty, you 
may have changed at least some of this early 
behavior so that the limitations you once felt are 
apt to be considerably reduced. 

The delineation is similar if three (or four) sub-elements have 
the same number. 


Hal Allen’s 
organization 
sheet and 
delineation 


What about Hal Allen? 


May 12, 1941 

5 ^3^ 6 



_2_+ (19) 1 + 

11 9 9 1 


6 


1 5 



HARLAN WILLIAM ALLEN 
819315 5911914 13355 

(27) 9 + (34) 7 + (17) 8 = 24 = \^6)j 


Hal has a 5 sub-element behind his 5 Life Path. It’s shown in 
the negative energy column on his organization sheet (Figure 






CHAPTER 13: SUB-ELEMENTS OF THE CORE 


147 


* 


-< 

—1 

—i 

—i 






1 

Four Is 



5 

2 



2 Karmic Lesson 

6 

1 

Five 3’s 

3 Prime 
Intensifier 

v3, 


3 

1 



mm 


I 





S 



6 Modified 
Karmic Lesson 

6 

E 



7 Karmic Lesson 

Q 

E 




■ 


' 



a 





i 





i 


B 




Figure 13-1 

Organization Sheet with Doubled Elements-Sub-Elements 


13-1 above). The description of the 5-5 negative potential 
reiterates, to an extent, some of the traits associated with his 
14/5 Karmic Debt. Since the Karmic Debt has already been so 
strongly expressed in the delineation, there’s no reason to repeat 
the material. 




























CHAPTER 14: THE CHALLENGE 


149 


CHAPTER 14 


ANOTHER 

BEGINNING OBSTACLE: 
THE CHALLENGE 


THE CHALLENGE IS AN OBSTACLE ENCOUNTERED 
IN THE EARLY YEARS OF LIFE, AT LEAST, DUE TO 
THE EMPHASIS PLACED ON THE NEGATIVE EX¬ 
TREME OF THE POTENTIAL. The Challenge is an impor¬ 
tant modifier. 


The calculation' of the Challenge is the only modifier cal¬ 
culation involving subtraction. Always, of course, subtract 
the smaller number from the larger. Before subtracting, reduce 
a master number to a single digit. 

For example: 


April 16, 1958 

4 7 5 

7-4 = 3 
7-5 = 2 

3-2 = 1 Challenge 

November 22, 1975 
11 22 22 

2 4 4 


Subtract the month digit and the day 
digit. 

Subtract the day digit and the year 
digit. 

Subtract the two remaining numbers to 
determine the Challenge. 


Reduce the master numbers to single 
digits. 


Definition 


Calculation 




150 


PART III: THE MODIFIERS 


Chart 9: 
The 
Challenge/ 
The Growth 
Number 

Commentary 


4-2 = 2 Subtract the month digit and the day 

digit. 

4-4 = 0 Subtract the day digit and the year 

digit. 

2-0 = 2 Challenge Subtract the two remaining numbers to 

determine the Challenge. 


The Challenges are described in the top row of chart 9: the 
challenge/the growth number on page 326. There are no 
Challenges for 9, 11 or 22, but there is a 0 (zero) Challenge. 
This is the only place in numerology in which the zero is found. 


The 1 and 2 Challenges are most frequent, the 0 and 3 some¬ 
what less frequent, the 4 and 5 considerably less frequent. Very 
occasionally, you’ll find a 6, 7 or 8 Challenge, but they’re 
considerably more difficult than the others. The 7 Challenge, 
in particular, may have a substantial impact and needs much 
work to be overcome. 

And overcome is the right verb to apply to all the Chal¬ 
lenges—or more correctly, converting the negative emphasis of 
the early years to positive potential. 

The Challenge represents experiences which are likely to 
occur frequently in the life. In the beginning years, just about 
everyone approaches these situations negatively. By using the 
willpower, an individual can learn how to deal with the same 
forces in a constructive manner. The situations recur—but in¬ 
stead of representing obstacles, the situations provide potential 
for positive growth and development. 

Let’s look at Lloyd, for instance. Like many of us, he has a 2 
Challenge. As a child, Lloyd was timid and shy. His family, 
especially, could see that he had deep feelings, but they were 
rarely expressed. As he moved into his teen years, Lloyd was 
close with only a handful of friends. He was sensitive to criti¬ 
cism, occasionally to the point of tears. It was often easier for 
him to forego a social occasion than to deal with others who, in 
fact or in his imagination, were unaware of his sensitivity. 
Sometimes, when he felt ignored—and with his timidity, he 
was often overlooked—the hurt would be extreme. 

A perceptive high school teacher recognized Lloyd’s writing 
talents and encouraged him to develop this special ability. 
Lloyd became one of the editors of the school literary magazine 
and, in his senior year, won a city-wide award for his poetry. 
Lloyd’s peers began to observe his sensitivities and his ability to 
use them to enlighten others. Receiving praise (instead of the 





CHAPTER 14: THE CHALLENGE 


151 


criticism he so feared) allowed Lloyd to expand his writing 
talents to express the deep feelings he had so long repressed. 
The shy, reclusive child was becoming a confident and sensitive 
young man. 

Lloyd had enough willpower (along with some fortuitous cir¬ 
cumstances) to change the negative emphasis of his Challenge 
to a positive expression—with dramatic results. With the 
Challenge, it’s never clear at what age this shift will occur. 
Most people begin to express constructively in their early teens, 
others continue to emphasize the negative extreme into their 
adult years. 

You may find that the Challenge—with its two poles—may 
be one of the more enlightening pieces of information in the 
delineation. Most people will know exactly what you mean 
when you describe the negative potential, but the possibilities 
of the positive energy, available with only an effort of the will, 
may never have crossed their minds. Since the Challenge situa¬ 
tions tend to recur throughout the life—Lloyd, as an example, 
will always find his sensitivity playing a vital role in his well¬ 
being or distress—the advantage of the conversion to the posi¬ 
tive is obvious. 


If the Challenge number is the same as any of the core ele¬ 
ments, that element tends to be affected by the negative Chal¬ 
lenge emphasis. This emphasis is substantially lighter and easier 
to overcome than.the negativity of a repeated core element or a 
Karmic Debt, but the Challenge’s negativity may be more ap¬ 
parent in the life. 

If the Challenge number is the same as a repeated core ele¬ 
ment or Karmic Debt, the Challenge adds its own burden to 
the already significant negativity. 

If the Challenge number is the same as a negative Intensity 
Point or a Karmic Lesson, the life is likely to emphasize the 
negative aspect of that continuum, particularly in the early 
years. 


The paragraphs describing the Challenge would be included 
along with the descriptions of other modifiers with that same 
modifier number. Since there’s no way to determine when the 
positive conversion takes place, the reading must express both 
positive and negative as if either one is currently effective. 


Special 

cases 


Expression 

in 

delineation 






PART III: THE MODIFIERS 


Hal Allen’s 
organization 
sheet and 
delineation 


Hal has a 1 Challenge which is placed in the negative energy 
column on his organization sheet (Figure 14-1 below). Step 8 of 
Hal’s delineation, page 203, includes the effect of the Challenge 
and deals with Hal’s probable domination by others in his early 
years. Study this step carefully to see how several modifiers are 
blended. 


-) 

- i 

—I 

0 



/* 


13 

i? 

— 1 1 

1 

Four l’s 


1 Challenge 4 — 

5 

i 

2 



2 Karmic Lesson 

6 

1 

1 

i 

1 

S! 

i 

1} 

is 

> 

1 

1 

j 

s 

p 

s 

$ 

§ 

jj 

► 3 

Five 3*s 

3 Prime 
Intensifier 



3 

4 





- 5 



14/5 

5 

- 6 



6 Modified 
Karmic Lesson 

6 

7 



7 Karmic Lesson 

(7) 

8 





-9 


® 


9 

11 





22 






DIRECTING 

MODIFIERS 




Figure 14-1 

Organization Sheet with Challenge 







CHAPTER 15: THE GROWTH NUMBER 


153 


CHAPTER 15 

A GUIDE TO GROWTH: 

THE GROWTH NUMBER 

THE GROWTH NUMBER DESCRIBES THE ENERGY 
WHICH WILL ILLUMINATE THE ESSENCE OF THE 
EXPERIENCES AND HELP EXPAND A PERSON’S DE¬ 
VELOPMENT. 

If we think of a strong Intensity Point as a potent supplier of 
energy, the Growth Number, by contrast, is a poor energy sup¬ 
plier, supplying perhaps ten or twenty percent of the Intensity 
Point potential. The Growth Number is an important modifier, 
though, because its energy, along with similar energy, points 
the way to growth dnd development. 

If the Growth Number is matched by a core element or posi¬ 
tive modifier (or by similar positive potential) and is not in con¬ 
flict with other energy, the individual is likely to grow and 
develop. If, for example, there’s a 1 Growth Number along 
with a 1 Expression and no energy tending to stifle inde¬ 
pendence or promote dominant traits, then the individual is 
likely to use the 1 energy to expand his experiences. 

If the Growth Number is matched by a core element or posi¬ 
tive modifier (or by similar positive potential) but is in conflict 
with other energy, the subject’s use of his free will will deter¬ 
mine whether he grows and develops. As an example, if there’s 
a 5 Growth Number along with a 5 Life Path and a 13/4 
Expression, the individual will have to determine whether he 
uses the positive potential and grows, or whether he succumbs 
to the negative energy. 

If the Growth Number is not matched by a core element 
or positive modifier (or by similar positive potential), the 
individual, particularly in the early years, may show little 
development. 


Definition 


Commentary 



154 


PART 111: THE MODIFIERS 


Calculation The Growth Number is the sum of the letters of the first 
name, reduced to a single digit or master number. For instance: 

ANNETTE 
1555225 = 25 

= 2 + 5 = 7 Growth Numbe r 

ADRIAN 

1 4 9 9 1 5 = 29 

= 2 + 9 = 11 Growth Numbe r 

Chart 9: The Growth Numbers are described in the bottom row in 

The chart 9: the challenge/the growth number on page 326. 

Challenge/ 

The Growth 
Number 

Examples Suppose we look at Janet with a 5 Growth Number and the 
following core: 

4 Life Path 
8 Expression 
1 Soul Urge 
7 Birthday 

and modifiers similar to the core elements. Janet is likely to be 
, hard-pressed to grow and develop comfortably. The rigidity of 
the 4 and 8 energies as well as the inward-turning 7 potential 
will hardly work toward the versatility, adaptability and excite¬ 
ment defined by the 5 Growth Number. Only a small portion 
of the 1 energy, the motivation to create and originate, tends in 
the 5 direction. The delineation should stress the importance 
of that part of Janet’s Soul Urge potential in illuminating the 
depth of her experience. The reading should also explain how 
the other energies will tend to block the experiences. 

Lillie, on the other hand, has that same 5 Growth Number, 
but her core has: 

3 Life Path 
5 Expression 
22 Soul Urge 

2 Birthday 

and modifiers similar to the core elements. The 5 Expression, of 
course, gives Lillie the ability to express the very energy the 
' Growth Number is defining. And the 3 and 22 energy also have 




CHAPTER IS: THE GROWTH NUMBER 


155 


an expansive potential. With this core, Lillie has a good chance 
for development. 


Don’t misunderstand the relative importance of the Growth 
Number and the Life Path. Although the Growth Number 
describes the energy which helps expand a person’s develop¬ 
ment, the development itself is along the Life Path. 

In Janet’s example, the energy related to her 5 Growth 
Number will light the way along her 4 Life Path. Her ability to 
be versatile and adaptable will help her with the hard work and 
service she’s likely to encounter. In Lillie’s example, the 5 
Growth Number delight in change and variety will help expand 
Lillie’s ability to express the joy of living—her 3 Life Path 
lesson. 


The 
Growth 
Number 
and the 
Life Path 


Did you notice, in reading the descriptions of the Growth Special 
Numbers on Chart 9, that 1 through 9 define energies with case 
reasonable possibilities? And that 11 and 22 are significantly 
more difficult? Only rarely will an individual have the poten¬ 
tial to expand his life as defined by the master numbers. Unless 
there’s some strong 11 core or modifier energy to match the 11 
Growth Number, you can be certain that growth along the 11 
path will present some difficulty. Similarly, some strong 22 
core or modifier energy would be needed for development with 
a 22 Growth Number. 

As in other master number cases, the lower level of these 
energies may provide a more acceptable alternative. If 11 core 
or modifier energy is available, give the subject the choice of 
both the 11 and 2 Growth Number paths. If 11 energy isn’t 
available, the 2 Growth Number alone should be described. 

Similarly, use the 22 and 4 Growth Number paths if 22 poten¬ 
tial is available—only the 4 Growth Number if the 22 potential 
is not. 


The Growth Number is placed in the center column of the 
organization sheet. Hal Allen, with a 9 Growth Number, 
would now have an organization sheet as shown in Figure 15-1 
on page 156. 

Since Hal has a 6 Expression and a 9 Soul Urge, we’d cer- 


Hal Allen’s 
organization 
sheet and 
delineation 






156 PART III: THE MODIFIERS 


tainly expect some positive energy to expand his experiences 
in accordance with the 9 Growth Number description. See Step 
15, page 211 of Hal’s delineation, where his Growth Number is 
described. 


♦ 



0 






1 

Four l's 


1 Challenge 

5 

2 



2 Karmic Lesson 

6 


Five 3’s 

3 Prime 
Intensifier 



3 


6 

E 




■ 

E 



ini 

D 

E 



6 Modified 
Karmic Lesson 

D 

E 



7 Karmic Lesson 


E 


/v/ 



_-.- 




E 


® LS 

9 Growth 
Number 



ii 




1 

22 




1 


DIRKCTINQ 

MODIFIERS 


Figure 15-1 

Organization Sheet with Growth Number 



















CHAPTER 16: THE MATURITY NUMBER 


157 


CHAPTER 16 

A LATER LESSON 
TO BE LEARNED: 

THE MATURITY NUMBER 


THE MATURITY NUMBER DESCRIBES A SUB-LESSON Definition 
INTRODUCED AT MATURITY. If you think of the Life 
Path, or main lesson, as a highway, the Maturity Number 
represents a widening of the highway during the mature years. 

The Maturity Number (or Power Number or Reality Number) 
is often an important modifier.. 


The Maturity Number is the sum of the Life Path plus the Ex- Calculation 
pression, reduced to a single digit or master number. 

Evan has a Life Path of 7 and an Expression of 8. 

7 + 8 = 15 

= 1 + 5 = 6 Maturity Number 

Richard has a Life Path of 2 and an Expression of 9. 

2 + 9 = 11/2 Maturity Number 


chart 10: the maturity number on page 340 describes 
the different Maturity- Numbers. The first and second rows 
delineate two different readings, depending on whether the 
sub-lesson that’s introduced is brand new or is related to 


Chart 10: 
The 

Maturity 

Number 







158 


PART III: THE MODIFIERS 


First row 


Second row 


energies introduced at birth. (The bottom row will be discussed 
later under Special Cases.) 


The first row describes an individual with a Maturity Num¬ 
ber that matches a core element, an Intensity Point or a Karmic 
Lesson. Here, there’s usually less strain than in the second row 
descriptions where there is no matching energy. Robert, for in¬ 
stance, has a Maturity Number with the same number as the 
Life Path. I think you can see that, at maturity, all that’s hap¬ 
pening is that Robert’s Life Path lesson is being brought up for 
reevaluation. All the Life Path traits have probably been used, 
at least to some degree, in the years leading up to maturity. 
These characteristics were probably used to make progress in 
the lesson outlined by the Life Path and, of course, they’re 
available for continued use during the maturity reassessment. 
In this example, then, Robert would basically be checking his 
progress along the Life Path at maturity and making some ad¬ 
justments, when necessary, to better assimilate the lesson he’s 
been working on all his life. 

Let’s suppose that the Maturity Number, instead of being the 
same as the Life Path, is the same as the Expression, Soul Urge 
or Birthday. Or that there’s an above-average Intensity Point 
with the same modifier number. Here, a new sub-lesson is be¬ 
ing introduced by the Maturity Number, but the basic energy 
to work on the new sub-lesson has been operating since birth. 
That’s certainly comfortable energy to have available. It’s been 
developing all these years and now it can be put to work in the 
service of the new sub-lesson. In this case, as in Robert’s exam¬ 
ple in the last paragraph, the individual is essentially checking 
his growth and making some adjustments—but he certainly 
isn’t being jolted by a completely new direction. 

If the Maturity Number has the same modifier number as a 
negative Intensity Point or Karmic Lesson, the individual has 
been working, prior to maturity, to overcome the obstacles 
presented. The introduction of the sub-lesson at maturity re¬ 
emphasizes the progress (or lack of progress) made with this 
energy. 


Suppose that the Maturity Number is not similar to any of 
the core elements and doesn’t have a matching Intensity Point 
or Karmic Lesson. Sometime in mid-life, the individual will 
• become aware of a new sub-lesson to be learned, a sub-lesson 
which doesn’t match any of the strong energies he’s been 





CHAPTER 16: THE MATURITY NUMBER 


159 


developing from birth. It’s true that the sub-lesson brings some 
new energies with it—the energies usually associated with the 
modifier number. But these energies, compared to the birth 
energies, are weakly expressed, and, being new to the individ¬ 
ual, would take some assimilation before they are fully opera¬ 
tional. This example, covered in the second row in Chart 10, 
describes a Maturity Number that is an important modifier 
indeed. 

Here’s Octavia, for instance, with an 11 Life Path, 6 Expres¬ 
sion, 9 Soul Urge and 5 Birthday. Octavia has a great deal of 
helping, loving energy (from 6 and 9) and a lot of idealistic and 
spiritual energy (from the 11). She may well find her way as a 
counselor, a teacher, a social worker, a numerologist or 
astrologer—there are many possibilities here to make use of the 
positive potential. At maturity, Octavia would become aware 
of her 8 Maturity Number (11 + 6 = 17 1 + 7 = 8). 

Here at mid-life, our helping, loving, idealistic, spiritual Oc¬ 
tavia feels a need or desire to learn the satisfactions of the 
material world and the power which comes with its mastery. 
Her path through life probably doesn’t feel like it widened 
gradually—it’s more like an abrupt U-turn. 

Along with these material desires, Octavia is likely to feel the 
stirrings of some new energy—in her case, some new 8 energy. 
If we look at the characteristics of the 8 Life Path (second row 
of chart 2: the life path) we’ll have a good picture of that 
new energy. Octavia is likely, at maturity, to feel somewhat 
more ambitious and self-confident than in her early years, a bit 
more efficient and energetic, .too. She’s becoming, possibly 
through painful past experience, somewhat more realistic and 
practical than is usual with an 11 Life Path. And she’s starting 
to be a bit more stubborn and rigid than she used to be, not a 
bad trait for a person with the 6-9 tendency to be a doormat. As 
you can imagine, this new energy feels considerably weaker 
than the energy she’s used all her life. Octavia is going to have 
to move slowly, develop the energy and assimilate it. 

The Maturity Number sometimes manifests itself as the slow 
development of some newfound understanding, sometimes as a 
dramatic awareness sparked by an unforeseen crisis. Develop¬ 
ment of the Maturity Number potential usually gives the indi¬ 
vidual better control of the life along with a sense of deeper 
fulfillment. 

Octavia may have done her good works, yet somehow, in the 
back of her mind, always felt that her direction was largely dic¬ 
tated by the social work agencies and schools which employed 
her. Her mature awareness of the material world will allow her 
to develop better control of her life. More money and higher 
status means she can, to a greater extent, pick and choose the 





160 


PART III: THE MODIFIERS 


precise work she wants to accomplish. This, in turn, is likely to 
lead to more satisfaction. For Octavia, the Maturity Number 
marks an important guidepost to a new direction—with prob¬ 
able difficulties and significant ultimate benefits. 


The age for 
applying the 
Maturity 
Number 


The Maturity Number is the only modifier that doesn’t start 
operating at birth. It starts operating at maturity—but just 
when does a person reach maturity? This is far more a philo¬ 
sophical or psychological question than a numerology question. 
In my experience, a person’s maturity seems directly related to 
that person’s commitment to growth. I’ve known a few indi¬ 
viduals who showed conspicuous signs of maturity at thirty-five 
or so, but I expect, for the majority of people, maturity is likely 
to set in somewhere between forty and fifty. And some people, 
by design (or is it lack of design?) don’t seem to develop maturi¬ 
ty no matter how long they live. 

For numerology purposes, I wouldn’t even mention the 
Maturity Number in a delineation unless the subject is at least 
in the thirties. From forty on, I would delineate the sub-lesson 
in detail, particularly in those cases, like Octavia’s, where new 
energies are also introduced. 


Special case: If there’s a Karmic Debt behind the Maturity Number—13 

Karmic Debt behind the 4, 14 behind the 5, 16 behind the 7, 19 behind the 
1—the individual is apt to find obstacles in the sub-lesson 
path. If we’re dealing with a Maturity Number which doesn’t 
introduce new energy, the impediments are probably negative 
developments of existing energies which are painfully high¬ 
lighted at the mid-life reevaluation. If we’re dealing with the 
introduction of new energy, the blockages are likely to appear 
as an integral part of the new sub-lesson. Sometimes, one of the 
obstructions itself can signal the onset of the sub-lesson. 

The obstacles are described in the bottom row of Chart 10. 
They provide vital information for the delineation. 


Special case: If the Maturity Number is a master number, the individual 

master has the choice of operating on the very difficult higher level or 
numbers t ^ ie cons iderably easier lower level of that energy. 

If there’s no previous strong master number energy, it’s ex¬ 
tremely difficult (it may feel impossible) to start working with 
this high-level potential so late in life. In a delineation, em- 





CHAPTER 16: THE MATURITY NUMBER 


161 


phasize the lower level sub-lesson and briefly mention the 
higher sub-lesson in passing. Don’t go further with the higher 
level unless the subject indicates a particular interest in it. 

If there is previous strong master number energy, it is, of 
course, considerably easier to work with the higher level sub- 
lesson, particularly if the individual has already developed 
some of his master number potential. In a reading, mention 
both sub-lessons with equal emphasis and let the individual 
make his own choice. 


When there are repeated core elements, we’re dealing with a Special case: 
person likely to be struggling with negative potential—during repeated core 
the early years, at the very least. We know, from Chapter 9, element 
that the negative potential is likely to be converted to positive 
sometime between twenty and forty. Now, if there’s a match¬ 
ing Maturity Number, we can expect the effect of its potential 
to be felt sometime after thirty-five, quite possibly before the 
negative energy is fully converted. 

In this complex situation, the Maturity Number is likely to 
introduce a sub-lesson which isn’t new, but which is incom¬ 
pletely assimilated. In the delineation, the sub-lesson would be 
described as a reevaluation of an existing lesson. We would in¬ 
dicate that the energies introduced at maturity are likely to give 
positive impetus to previous negatively directed potential. 

Blaine, with a 1 Life Path, a 1 Soul Urge —and a 1 Maturity 
Number—is, at age thirty-five., likely to either overemphasize 
himself and his own needs or be timid and afraid to stand up 
for himself (l-l, chart 6: the aspects). At maturity, he’s likely 
to reevaluate his progress toward independence, find that he’s 
either dominating or dependent (First row, 1 Maturity Num¬ 
ber, Chart 10). Blaine may now begin to gain the awareness 
and use of his inner strength, his leadership capability, his po¬ 
tential for accomplishment (1 characteristics, chart 2: the life 
path). The Maturity Number will tend to help him toward the 
independence which may have proved elusive up to maturity. 


Here’s Stephen, age forty-three, with a 3 Maturity Number Expression in 
and a 3 Soul Urge. The description of the effect of Stephen’s delineation 
Maturity Number would, of course, be an example of the case 
where no new energy is introduced. 

In Step 15 of a delineation (from Chapter 7) the Soul Urge 
motives are described..You may remember that the motives re¬ 
main the same irrespective of the other core elements. 






162 


PART III: THE MODIFIERS 


Stephen’s 3 Soul Urge motives (Top row, chart 4: the soul 
urge) might read as follows: 

You are likely to want to express your delight in 
life, your sense of joie de vivre. You probably want 
an active social life with many close friends and 
diverse activities. You're apt to want to express ar¬ 
tistic talents, particularly your talent with words, 
by speaking, writing, acting or singing. You want 
your home and work environment to reflect the 
beauty you enjoy creating. 

From the first row of the 3 Maturity Number, chart 10: the 
maturity number, we can add the following: 

Now that you're in your early forties, I expect 
you're going to run into some experiences that 
may make you want to reevaluate how well you've 
satisfied some of the desires just mentioned. When 
you're with others, for instance, are you comfort¬ 
able giving of yourself openly, warmly, spontane¬ 
ously? Do you know how to thoroughly enjoy 
yourself at social gatherings? And have you 
learned to fully express the artistic and creative 
side of your personality? 

You may find, at this time in your life, that you 
want to change some of your attitudes and actions 
in order to give freer rein to your self-expression. 


Hal Allen’s Hal Allen’s Maturity Number introduces the complexity of 
organization dealing with a master number. With a 5 Life Path and a 6 Ex- 
sheet and P ress * on ’ Hal would have an 11/2 Maturity Number. There’s no 
- . other 11 energy in his chart, so it would be difficult for him to 

delineation assimilate the new 11 sub-lesson at mid-life. His delineation 
stresses the 2 sub-lesson (while only mentioning the new 11 sub¬ 
lesson). And, since he has a 2 Karmic Lesson and similar 6 and 
9 energy, we’re not working with new energy here. 

Hal’s organization sheet (Figure 16-1 on page 163) shows the 
11 Maturity Number in the 11 row. The 2 Maturity Number 
which is being emphasized is shown in the 2 row. Both are in 
the center column. 

See Step 13, page 208, for a description of Hal’s 2 Maturity 
Number and Step 21, page 213, for a mention of Hal’s 11 
Maturity Number. 





CHAPTER 16: THE MATURITY NUMBER 


163 







































CHAPTER 17: THE SECRET SELF 


1 65 


CHAPTER 17 

AN INNER DREAM: 
THE SECRET SELF 


THE SECRET SELF DESCRIBES A DREAM OF Definition 
DESIRES CHERISHED DEEP IN THE RECESSES OF THE 
MIND. The Secret Self (or Quiescent Self or Quiet Self or La¬ 
tent Self) is a modifier of lesser importance. 

The Secret Self adds a special energy even though it’s rarely 
connected to the realities of an individual’s life. It usually 
doesn’t have any relation to a person’s opportunities, abilities or 
apparent desiress It’s always a pleasurable fantasy, usually a 
fantasy of achievements which the individual makes little effort 
to actually accomplish. The contrast between the fantasy and 
the life is often fascinating and perplexing, though most people 
readily acknowledge their love of the fantasy as well as their 
lack of interest in making it a reality. Though only a discon¬ 
nected dream, the Secret Self adds a dimension to the in¬ 
dividual, a dimension different than that added by any other 
modifier. 


The Secret Self is derived by finding the sum of the number Calculation 
values of all the consonants in each name, reducing this sum to 
a single digit or master number, then adding the sums of all the 
names together and reducing that total to a single digit or 
master number. For instance: 

ABRAHAM LINCOLN 
29 8 4 3 53 35 


(23) 5 + (19) 1 = 6 Secret Self 






166 


PART III: THE MODIFIERS 


Commentary 


Expression 

in 

delineation 


FRANKLIN DELANO ROOSEVELT 
69 523 5 435 9 1 4 32 

(30) 3 + (12) 3 + (19) 1 = 7 Secret Self 

HARRY S. TRUMAN 
8 99 1_ 29 4 5 

(26) 8 + 1 + (20) 2 = 11 Secret Self 


The Secret Self is simply a dream with the keywords or 
essence of the Secret Self number as the ultimate development 
of the dream. Lincoln, for instance, with his 6 Secret Self, 
probably looked forward, in his mind’s eye, to the beauty of 
home, family and friends; Roosevelt, in his private fantasy, is 
likely to have delighted in being an all-wise mystic (7 Secret 
Self); Truman, in secret, is apt to have contemplated a life 
dedicated to a spiritual mission (11 Secret Self). These three 
men of action cherished such very different dreams. Can you 
see how this modifier gives you such a special insight? 


There are only a few instances where the Secret Self has any 
chance of being related to reality. 

If the Secret Self and the Life Path are the same number, the 
desire of the Secret Self matches the opportunities of the Life 
Path. Here, the individual may work to obtain the pleasure of 
harmonizing the dream with the real world. 

If the Secret Self and the Soul Urge are the same number, the 
fantasy desire of the Secret Self matches the apparent desire 
described by the Soul Urge. The fantasy becomes a realistic 
desire here with the possibility of fulfillment dependent on the 
rest of the core and the modifiers. 


The Secret Self, if included at all, is mentioned in the delin¬ 
eation along with other modifiers of the same or similar 
number. If the Secret Self doesn’t match the Life Path or the 
Soul Urge, it can be omitted or included with a minimum 
description. (I usually include it because it fascinates me, and 
because it often adds a dramatic contrast.) If the Secret Self 
matches the Life Path or the Soul Urge, the deep satisfaction 
obtainable with the possibility of fulfillment should be dis¬ 
cussed along with a full description of the dream. 








CHAPTER 17: THE SECRET SELF 


The Secret Self is placed in the central column of the organi- Hal Allen’s 
zation sheet (Figure 17-1 below). organization 

sheet and 
delineation 

8 93 5 5 33 4 33 5 


HARLAN WILLIAM ALLEN 


(25) 7 


(15) 6 


11 = 24 

= 6 Secret Self 


Turn to Step 13, page 209, for a description of Hal’s Secret 
Self. Since his 6 Secret Self doesn’t match either his 5 Life Path 
or his 9 Soul Urge, the description is minimized. 



167 


Figure 17-1 

Organization Sheet with Secret Self 






















CHAPTER 18: NUANCES 


169 


CHAPTER 18 

NUANCES: 

GROUPS, 

NUMBERS BEHIND 
THE CORE ELEMENTS 


WHEN 40% OR MORE OF THE ELEMENTS AND Groups 
SUB-ELEMENTS BELONG TO A GROUP, THE GROUP 
ENERGY IS AN IMPORTANT MODIFIER. 

You may remember that, in Chapter 2, we discussed the fact 
that some of the energies naturally work together. Here are the 


most common 

groups: 

1,4,8 

: business, system and order, self-centered¬ 
ness. 

2,6,9 

: helping, caring 

3,6,9 

: artistic, creative 

7,11,22 

: nervous tension 

11,22 

: special potential 


If some of the elements are part of the group, the elements’ 
description alone will indicate the group energy. Sometimes, 
though, you’ll find groups primarily of sub-elements. Unless 
their energy is described, this important effect would not be 
noted. 

Carl, on page 143 of Chapter 13, has a lot of numbers from 
the first group. 

His Life Path is 8. 

His Soul Urge is 1. 

His Birthday is 4. 

One Soul Urge sub-element is 1. 

Two Expression sub-elements are 4. 



Numbers 
behind 
the core 
elements 


PART III: THE MODIFIERS 


Of the twelve elements and sub-elements, six belong to the 
1,4,8 group, indicating that Carl would probably express a 
strong leaning toward business, system and order as well as dis¬ 
playing a tendency to be self-centered. Since three of his 
elements are in this group, it’s not necessary to describe the 
group energy in a separate paragraph in the reading. 


My birthname is Matthew Oliver Goodwin. 

The calculation for my Expression would, of course, look like 
this: 


MATTHEW OLIVER GOODWIN 
4122855 639459 7664595 

(27) 9 + (36) 9 + (42) 6 = 24 

THE 24 IS THE NUMBER “BEHIND” THE 6. IT ADDS A 
TRACE OF COLORATION TO THE DESCRIPTION OF 
THE CORE ELEMENT. It is a modifier of lesser importance. 

The purest form, say, of the 6 Expression would occur when 
there is no number behind the Expression, just the sub¬ 
elements. For instance: 

HENRIETTA JEAN HUME 
855995221 1515 8345 

(46) (10) 1 + (12) 3 + (20) 2 = 

This pure form, of course, represents an individual who is 
responsible, helpful, loving and sympathetic. 

We have, from Chapter 13: 

CARL HAROLD* CHRISTOPHER 
3193 819634 38991267859 

(16) 7 + (31) 4 + (67) (13) 4 = 15 = 

Now Carl has a 15 behind the 6. We would expect Carl to 
emphasize his own needs a bit more than Henrietta (from the 
self-centered 1 and 5 traits) and tend to be a bit looser and freer 
in his committments (from the restlessness of the 5). 

My name, above, with the 24 behind the 6, would mean that 
I tend to be very responsible, helpful, loving and sympathetic 
(the 2 adds energy similar to the 6 energy), along with a trace of 
stubbornness or rigidity (a 4 trait). 


CHAPTER 18: NUANCES 


171 


And finally: 

WALLACE WELLS MANDEL 
5133135 55331 415453 

(21) 3 + (17) 8 + 22 = 33 = 

With that 33 behind the 6, Wallace would tend to show 
optimism and enthusiasm (3 characteristics) along with his 
loving, responsible nature. The 33 doesn’t express as a nega¬ 
tive doubled 3 but, rather, as the positive side of the 3— 
emphasized. 

These are, admittedly, rather subtle nuances. Include them 
in the delineation when it feels comfortable. 


Hal Allen has: 

6 Expression 
9 Soul Urge 
3 Birthday 

6 sub-element in the Life Path 
9 sub-element in the Expression 
6 sub-element in the Soul Urge 


Hal Allen’s 
organization 
sheet and 
delineation 


Six of his twelve elements and sub-elements belong to the 
3,6,9 group. This should be noted in the bottom row of his 
organization sheet (Figure 18-1 on page 172). 

Since Hal’s strong artistic and creative potential is described 
by his core elements, it’s not necessary to devote any additional 
space in the delineation to the group energy. 

A description of the numbers behind Hal’s elements—the 14 
behind his 5 Life Path and the 24 behind his 6 Expression—are 
not included in the delineation, either. The 1 energy is already 
described with Hal’s four l’s Intensity Point and 1 Challenge. 
The 2 energy is discussed relative to Hal’s 2 Maturity Number 
and 2 Karmic Lesson. The 4 energy is not specifically men¬ 
tioned in Hal’s delineation. His opposing 5 energy is so strong 
that this subtle 4 potential would be of little consequence. 

You’ll find that there are only occasional instances where 
either the group energy or the numbers behind the elements 
need mentioning. 


172 


PART III: THE MODIFIERS 


+ 



Figure 18-1 

Organization Sheet with Group shown 









CHAPTER 19: THE TEMPERAMENT 


CHAPTER 19 

THE BASIC VIEWPOINT: 
THE TEMPERAMENT 


THE TEMPERAMENT DESCRIBES THE DISPOSITION 
OR BASIC VIEWPOINT DETERMINED BY THE RELA¬ 
TIVE PROPORTION OF PHYSICAL, MENTAL, EMO¬ 
TIONAL AND INTUITIVE COMPONENTS. Remember, in 
Chapter 10 (page 112), we introduced the idea of directing 
modifiers, modifiers that direct the energies of core elements 
and other modifiers? The Temperament is the first of the direc¬ 
ting modifiers that we’re going to discuss. 

The Temperament (or Planes of Temperament or Planes of 
Expression or Plane of Consciousness) is a very important 
modifier. The disposition or balance of qualities brought to our 
activities is often a significant determinant of the work we do 
or the friends we make. The core, of course, represents the very 
essence of a person, but the person’s Temperament—his basic 
viewpoint—may be important in attracting friends, mates or 
business associates. 


The Temperament is composed of four components, each 
representing a different area of consciousness: 

The Physical Component 
is represented by the body, 
deals with the senses. 

The Physical viewpoint is concerned with tangible 
form, material matters, practical affairs, physical 
adventures. 


Definition 


The 

Components 



174 


PART III: THE MODIFIERS 


The Mental component 

is represented by the mind, 

deals with thinking, reasoning, logic, facts. 

The Mental viewpoint is concerned with mental ac¬ 
tivities, business enterprises, political affairs. 

The Emotional component 
is represented by the emotions, 
deals with the feelings. 

The Emotional viewpoint is concerned with feelings, 
affection, artistic endeavors, creativity, imagination. 

The Intuitive component 
is represented by the spirit, 
deals with inner awarenesses. 

The Intuitive viewpoint is concerned with sensitivity to 
non-material experience—spiritual, religious, psychic, 
metaphysical—and ultimate wisdom. 


Calculating 

the 

components 



Each letter of the alphabet belongs to one component group 
as shown in this table: 


ABCDEFGH I J KLMNOPQR S TUVWXYZ Totals 


Physical 




D 

E 








M 










w 




4 

Mental 

A 






G 

H 


J 


L 


N 


P 











7 

Emotional 


B 







I 






O 



R 

S 

T 




X 


Z 

8 

Intuitive 



C 



F 





K 






Q 




U 

V 



Y 


7 


Calculate the Temperament by placing each letter of the 
name in its appropriate place in the Temperament table. For 
instance, Woodrow Wilson’s birth name was: 


THOMAS WOODROW WILSON 


Totals 


Physical 

MWDWW 

5 

Mental 

HALN 

4 

Emotional 

TOSOOROISO 

10 

Intuitive 


0 


Summarize the Temperament table information on one line: 
5 Physical, 4 Mental, 10 Emotional, 0 Intuitive 









CHAPTER 19: THE TEMPERAMENT 


175 


The strong components significantly affect the disposition. 
The weak components also significantly affect the disposition— 
negatively, because of their lacks. The average components 
allow the energy related to their area of consciousness to 
develop, although the energy is not likely to be emphasized as 
much as the energy related to the strong components. 

The strong components are: 

The component with the largest number, and 

Any other component with a number equal to at least 

60% of the largest number. 

The weak components are: 

Any component with a number less than 25% of the 
largest number. 

The average components are: 

Any component with a number less than 60% of the 
largest number and 25 % or more of the largest number. 

In Woodrow Wilson’s example: 

10 Emotional is the largest number. This is a strong 
component. 

60% of 10 - .60 x 10 = 6 
25% of 10 = .25 x 10 = 2.5 

5 Physical is less than 6 and more than 2.5. This is an 
average component. 

4 Mental is less than 6 and more than 2.5. This is an 
average component. 

0 Intuitive is less than 2.5. This is a weak component. 

Summarizing Wilson’s relative component strengths: 

10 Emotional 5 Physical 4 Mental 0 Intuitive 
Strong Average Average Weak 


What’s the effect of the relative component strengths? Here’s 
a brief rundown: 

PHYSICAL COMPONENT 
WEAK 

Viewpoint or disposition: 

Material matters'are not of particular interest. 
Practicality has little to do with judgments. 


Calculating 

the 

components’ 

strengths 


Component 

Descriptions 






176 


PART III: THE MODIFIERS 


Often characterized or expressed by: 

Avoidance of hard work and situations requiring con¬ 
centration. 

Lack of physical discipline. 

STRONG 

Viewpoint or disposition: 

Concerned with material matters. 

Extremely practical. Solid common sense view. 
Concerned with economical use of resources. 

Turns ideas into material reality. 

Prefers system and order. 

Often characterized or expressed by: 

Physical endurance. 

Practical nature. 

Capability of extreme concentration. 

Determination. 

Strong opinions, forceful. 


MENTAL COMPONENT 
WEAK 

Viewpoint or disposition: 

Mental matters are not of particular interest. 

(This component gives no indication of subject’s intel¬ 
ligence.) 

Lack of concern with reason, logic, facts. 

Often characterized or expressed by: 

Little explanation of motivations. 

Disinterest in leadership. 

Lack of will power. 

Lack of mental discipline. 

STRONG 

Viewpoint or disposition: 

Concern with reason, logic, facts. 

Reason is likely to be one of prime motivators. 

Concern with leadership. 

Often characterized or expressed by: 

Desire to reach logical conclusion. 

Logical deductions used as motivating force. 

Activity in large business, politics. 

Determination. 

Intellectual orientation. 



CHAPTER 19: THE TEMPERAMENT 


177 


EMOTIONAL COMPONENT 
WEAK 

Viewpoint or disposition: 

Feelings—his own or others—are not of any particular 
interest. 

Likely to have difficulty accepting his own emotional 
nature. 

Views life with little sentiment and imagination. 

Often characterized or expressed by: 

Limited expression of feelings. 

Lack of creative imagination. 

Unsentimental approach. 

STRONG 

Viewpoint or disposition: 

Extremely emotional point of view. 

Little concern with facts. 

Very sympathetic. 

Very sentimental. 

Much imagination. 

Often characterized or expressed by: 

Direct and open expressions of friendship, affection, 
love. 

Artistic and creative endeavors. 

Nervous nature. 

TOO STRONG (More than twice closest component, or more 
than all other components combined.) 

Often characterized or expressed by: 

Lack of clarity or confusion introduced by a too emo¬ 
tional viewpoint. 

Overwhelmed by imagination. 

Extremely nervous nature. 


INTUITIVE COMPONENT 
WEAK 

Viewpoint and disposition: 

Intuitive awarenesses, spiritual, psychic and metaphysi¬ 
cal matters are of little interest. 

Distrusts inner voice. 

Often characterized or expressed by: 

Little concern with inner development. 





178 


PART Ill: THE MODIFIERS 


STRONG 

Viewpoint and disposition: 

Deep intuitive awarenesses. Concerned with wisdom, 
fundamentals. 

Listens to inner voice for guidance. 

Understands humanistic goals. Awareness of brother¬ 
hood of man. 

Concerned with spiritual, philosophic, inventive mat¬ 
ters. 

Often characterized or expressed by: 

Actions based on understanding, wisdom. 

Tolerant and compassionate approach. 

Unusual thinking or behavior, likely to attract atten¬ 
tion. 

TOO STRONG (5 or more) 

Extremely unusual thinking or behavior, likely to at¬ 
tract attention, possibly negative attention. 

Possibility of delicate health. 


Using the 
component 
descriptions 


Translating Woodrow Wilson’s components into a beginning 
description of his Temperament: 


Wilson is likely to have an extremely emotional 
point of view, a disposition displaying much imag¬ 
ination and creativity ( from his strong Emotional 
component). His too emotional level is apt to add 
confusion, aggravated by his extremely nervous 
nature. ( His Emotional component is greater than the 
other components combined.) He probably shows lit¬ 
tle intuitive awareness ( from his weak Intuitive com¬ 
ponent). 


Tempera¬ 

ment 

as 

modifier 


Being a directing modifier, the Temperament is different 
than the other modifiers we’ve studied so far. The other modi¬ 
fiers describe additions to or subtractions from the core’s in¬ 
herent energy. The Temperament doesn’t describe an ad¬ 
dition or subtraction of energy, but a disposition toward the use 
of the energy. If you visualize the core and modifiers sending 
out a flow of energy, the Temperament would act like a filter, 
allowing only a portion of the energy to flow through. 




CHAPTER 19: THE TEMPERAMENT 


179 



Figure 19-1 

Temperament as direction modifier 

In other words, the individual’s Temperament or disposition 
toward his basic energy potential determines the portion of the 
energy potential he is likely to use and the kind of use he can 
make of that portion. (In the examples that follow, we’re going 
to deal, for simplicity’s sake, with only the core energies. But, in 
a delineation, both the core and modifier energies would be 
involved.) 

Here’s Olivia with the following core: 

6 Life Path with much emotional energy potential 

5 Expression with much physical and mental energy 
potential 

7 Soul Urge with much intuitive and mental energy 
potential 

8 Birthday with much mental energy potential 

Olivia, in this simplified look at her energy, has a substantial 
amount of all four kinds of potential. What kind of a Tempera¬ 
ment filter would let all that energy through? A Temperament 
filter that had a good balance of its components—that is, four 
strong components. (If there were only one or two strong com¬ 
ponents and the rest were average components, it’s likely that 
all the energy could get through the filter, but it would be 
easier for the strong components to get through and they would 
tend to dominate the Temperament.) It could be summarized 
something like this: 

5 Physical 4 Mental 5 Emotional 3 Intuitive 

For Olivia, the Temperament is just about a transparent 
filter, allowing all the energies to pass through for maximum 
impact. Olivia, with her broad spectrum of energy, has all 
facets of her inherent potential available. 






180 


PART III: THE MODIFIERS 


Suppose Olivia’s Temperament looked like this: 

8 Physical 7 Mental 6 Emotional 5 Intuitive 
or like this: 

3 Physical 3 Mental 4 Emotional 3 Intuitive 

The description of both of these Temperaments would be 
similar to the description of Olivia’s original Temperament. 
The digits themselves are, in this case, less important than the 
PROPORTIONAL RELATION of the digits to each other. 


What if Olivia, with the same core, has an extremely disbal- 
anced Temperament, one that looks like this: 

2 Physical 8 Mental 3 Emotional 1 Intuitive 

With this Temperament, Olivia would display little interest 
in material matters (weak Physical component), feelings (weak 
Emotional component) and spiritual, psychic and metaphysical 
matters (weak Intuitive component). She would, on the other 
hand, display an extremely intellectual point of view and be 
apt to show considerable interest in business or political affairs 
(strong Mental component). 

This disbalanced Temperament could be represented by a 
filter which would predominantly pass the mental energies. Of 
the core potential, the 8 Birthday is primarily mental and the 5 
Expression and 7 Soul Urge have significant mental potential. 
A good deal of these energies are likely to be operable in 
Olivia’s life—only the primarily emotional 6 Life Path will 
tend to be blocked by this Temperament filter. 


Organization The Temperament, along with the First Letter and the First 
sheet Vowel discussed in the next chapter, are the only directing 
modifiers. These three modifiers are grouped in the next to 
last row of the organization sheet labeled DIRECTING 
MODIFIERS rather than being grouped by modifier numbers. 


How to use 
the Temper¬ 
ament in a 
delineation 


In the delineation, the Temperament is summarized in a few 
separate paragraphs rather than being included in the body of 
the reading with the other modifiers. 

The Temperament, like the core and other modifiers, 
describes the probable conditions at birth. The individual’s free 
will determines if the Temperament will be modified during 



CHAPTER 19: THE TEMPERAMENT 


181 


the life. For most people, there appears to be relatively little 
modification. If the Temperament, then, indicates a strong 
bias, it is likely that some of the energies won’t ever be explored 
or expressed. Occasionally, if the individual has a strong energy 
bias muffled by the Temperament, he may choose to modify 
the Temperament to allow these energies to surface. By in¬ 
cluding all the energies in the body of the delineation and 
confining the Temperament description to a few separate 
paragraphs, we are describing all the potential energies but 
expecting that only those energies that “pass the filter” will be 
expressed. The way is left open for a modification of the 
Temperament with consequent expression of the additional 
energies. 

A friend of mine will serve as a good example. Daniel has 
very strong intuitive energies in his core, but a Temperament 
with a strong Physical component and a weak Intuitive compo¬ 
nent. His early years were devoted to the construction business, 
with no interest in anything that he could not see demonstrated 
or scientifically proved. In his later years, he has become 
fascinated with the occult world, although still maintaining his 
construction interests. He approaches the occult world, an ex¬ 
pression of his intuitive energies, with heavy emphasis on the 
system and order he can find, a manifestation of his strong 
Physical component. Daniel is now making better use of his in¬ 
tuitive energies with his Physical component than in his early 
years. In time, he may choose to enlarge the scope of his Tem¬ 
perament filter, increase the power of his Intuitive component 
to further accommodate his interest in the occult. 


We’ll look at Emily, with the following core: 

Tempera¬ 

8 Life Path 

ment 

4 Expression 

delineation 

6 Soul Urge 

example 

1 Birthday 


and the following Temperament: 


7 Physical 8 Mental 3 Emotional 

1 Intuitive 


Emily has strong Physical and Mental components, an aver¬ 
age Emotional component and a weak Intuitive component. 

From the component descriptions on pages 175-178, we 
would expect the following: 

Strong Physical component: Extremely practical, com¬ 
mon sense point of view expressed with concentration 
and determination. 






182 


PART III: THE MODIFIERS 


Strong Mental component: Motivated by reason, con¬ 
cerned with leadership. Intellectual orientation may be 
expressed in large business or politics. 

Weak Intuitive component: Little interest in spiritual, 
psychic and metaphysical matters. 

The strong Mental and Physical components will allow the 
use of much of the 8, 4 and 1 core energies. The weak Intuitive 
component will, in Emily’s case, have little effect because there 
is little intuitive energy inherent in the core. 

The delineation paragraphs describing Emily’s Tempera¬ 
ment might read like this: 

Emily has a reasonably well-balanced tempera¬ 
ment: her concern with mental and material mat¬ 
ters is likely to be emphasized, her concern with 
feelings is present but less strongly stressed. ( Since 
there is little intuitive energy or intuitive direction, it’s 
not even mentioned.) 

Emily's strong concern with logic and reason 
{strong Mental) is likely to prove of importance in 
her business dealings (8 Life Path). Her executive 
ability (8 Life Path, 1 Birthday) may be enhanced by 
her concerns with leadership {strong Mental) as well 
as her will and determination {strong Physical). Her 
extremely practical and realistic nature {strong 
Physical) and her concern with the economical use 
of resources {strong Physical) would stand her in 
good stead in the business world (8 Life Path), 
although her strong opinions {strong Physical) might 
just emphasize her tendencies to rigidity or stub¬ 
bornness (8 Life Path, 4 Expression). Her strong sense 
of system and order {4 Expression, strong Physical), 
her ability to turn ideas into material reality {strong 
Physical) and her intellectual orientation (strong 
Mental) will certainly help her to manage and regu¬ 
late {4 Expression) her activities. 


With her average Emotional component, Emily’s emotional 
energies, primarily expressed in her 6 Soul Urge, will pass 
through the Temperament filter, but won’t be as emphasized as 
her other core energies. 





CHAPTER 19: THE TEMPERAMENT 


183 


Hal’s Temperament is calculated as follows: 


HARLAN WILLIAM ALLEN Totals 


Physical 

WME 

3 

Mental 

HALANLLAALLN 

12 

Emotional 

RII 

3 

Intuitive 


0 


Hal Allen’s 
organization 
sheet and 
delineation 


Mental component = 12 _strong 

Physical component = 3 (less than sixty percent of 12, but just 

twenty-five percent of 12)_average 

Emotional component = 3 (less than sixty percent of 12, but just 

twenty-five percent of 12)__average 

Intuitive component = 0 (less than twenty-five percent of 

12)_weak 


Hal’s Temperament—strong Mental component, weak Intui¬ 
tive component—is shown in the directing modifier row of the 
organization sheet (Figure 19-2 on page 184). 

Turn to Step 24, page 214, and read the paragraphs describ¬ 
ing Hal’s Temperament. 







184 


PART III: THE MODIFIERS 


■ 





1 

Four l’s 


1 Challenge 

5 

2 


2 Maturity 
Number 

2 Karmic Lesson 

6 

E 

Five 3’s 

3 Prime 
Intensifier 

v3y 


3 

E 





E 




5 

E 


6 Secret Self 

6 Modified 
Karmic Lesson 

6 

E 



7 Karmic Lesson 

(7) 

E 





- 9 


® 

9 Growth 
Number 


9 

11 


11 Maturity 
Number 


9 

22 



A 


Temperament: Strong Mental f 

directing: Weak Intuitive J 

MODIFIERS 

50% of elements, sub-elements in 3, 6, 9 Group 




Figure 19-2 

Organization Sheet with Temperament 
































CHAPTER 20: FIRST LETTER; FIRST VOWEL 


185 


CHAPTER 20 


THE APPROACH 
TO EXPERIENCE: 
THE FIRST LETTER 
THE FIRST VOWEL 


THE FIRST LETTER AND FIRST VOWEL OF THE 
NAME DESCRIBE THE NATURAL OR INNATE AP¬ 
PROACH, THE METHOD OF RESPONSE AND REAC¬ 
TION TO EXPERIENCE. The First Letter and First Vowel 
are directing modifiers. 

These are important modifiers. Since the nature of a person’s 
experience is structured by the core and since the approach to 
this experience is structured by the First Letter and First 
Vowel, the approach can have a LIMITING or STABILIZING 
or ENHANCING effect on a person’s experience. 

With an effort of the will, the approach can be shifted. It 
takes a significant force to change the approach so that, for in¬ 
stance, there is an enhancing effect rather than a limiting effect 
on a person’s experience. You are, to a great extent, attached to 
the First Letter and First Vowel much as you’re connected to 
the core. 

Some numerologists define the First Letter (or Cornerstone) 
as the approach to material experience, the First Vowel as the 
approach to spiritual or non-material experience. In my ex¬ 
perience, the approach to material and spiritual experience is 
an amalgam of the letter and vowel. The vowel predominates, 
supplying sixty percent of the direction while the letter supplies 
forty percent. 


Definition 



186 


PART III: THE MODIFIERS 


Chart 11: 
The First 
Letter 


Turn to chart 11: the first letter, page 354. Here you’ll 
find descriptions of the portion of the approach symbolized 
by the consonants. The vowels are not included in this chart, 
but are found on chart 12: the first vowel. W and Y are 
sometimes consonants and sometimes vowels. Chart 11 de¬ 
scribes W and Y as consonants while Chart 12 describes these 
letters as vowels. 

To the right of each letter on Chart 11 is a key phrase sum¬ 
marizing the characteristics described. 

The traits described are often symbolized in the letter itself. 
For example: 

H, M rest solidly on two legs, denote awareness of the 
material world. 

(A, a vowel, rests on a similar base, soars upwards to 
symbolize originality and creativity.) 

B, D (and O, a vowel) are enclosed, self-protected, re¬ 
tiring. 

E, C are open-ended, spontaneous, adventurous. 

Y has two arms, two directions, a sense of uncertainty, 
vacillation. 

As shown on Chart 11, the letters can be grouped according 
to modifier energies. For example, all letters with 1 modifier 
numbers—A,J,S—represent qualities of leadership while all 
letters with 7 modifier numbers—G,P,Y—represent qualities of 
thinking. The fourth horizontal row compares the letters 
directly above. 

The letters can also be grouped horizontally. In the upper 
row, A through I (the first through the ninth letters), the 
energy is usually positively oriented—C is a spontaneous crea¬ 
tor while D is a steady builder. 

In the second row, J through R (the tenth through the eigh¬ 
teenth letters), the energy is considerably less pure. L rep¬ 
resents the reasoning creator (as opposed to the spontaneous 
creator of C) and M is a controlled builder (compared to the 
steady builder of D). In the top row, the noun and adjective of 
the key phrase are supportive; in the second row, the adjective 
generally weakens the thrust of the noun. 

And, in the third row, S through Z (the nineteenth through 
the twenty-sixth letters), the energy often feels misdirected. W 
represents an encounterer, but, unfortunately, a limiting en- 
counterer (as compared to the E adventurous encounterer). Y 
represents an uncertain thinker. The noun and the adjective 
tend to be at odds with each other. The notable exception here, 
like the K exception in the second row, is the V inspirational 
master. 

Think of the descriptions as only a beginning in your under- 


CHAPTER 20: FIRST LETTER; FIRST VOWEL 


187 


standing of the individual letters. With the key phrases and 
descriptions as a base, compare the characteristics you observe 
in people and enlarge your awareness of the letters. 


chart 12: the first vowel, page 368, describes the portion 
of the approach symbolized by the vowels. As shown on the 
chart, the vowels must be viewed in terms of their pronun¬ 
ciation: 

Long vowels—A in James, E in Eva, I in Ida —contain 
energy in the purest, most positive form. 

Short vowels—I in Lisa, O in Oliver, U in Ruth—have 
the same general characteristics as the long vowels, 
but they have considerably less power and are more 
muted in expression. 

Combined vowels are two vowels combined in the 
same syllable—AU in Aubrey, E in Eugene, 
AY in Raymond. The power and expression of the 
combined vowels are as muted as the short vowels. 

Familiarize yourself with the approach represented by each 
vowel and the nuances reflecting the vowel’s pronounciation. 

A stresses LEADERSHIP, individuality, creativity. 

E stresses ADVENTURE, activity, change. 

I stresses HUMANITARIANISM, creativity, deep 
emotions > ' 

O stresses HARMONIZATION, responsibility, self¬ 
containment, concealed feelings. 

U stresses SENSITIVITY, intuition. 

W stresses VACILLATION. 

Y stresses THOUGHT, analysis, introspection, vacilla¬ 
tion, intuition. 


With just a little memorization, you can begin to use the 
First Letter and First Vowel. For instance, the next time you 
meet a Mary, see if you can see the leadership, the individ¬ 
uality, the creativity associated with the A along with the 
controlled, practical and steadying effect of the M. The charac¬ 
teristics just mentioned describe the way Mary approaches ex¬ 
perience—which, in terms of numerology, is the way Margaret 
and Maria and Mark and Matthew and Matilda also approach 
experience. The approach will appear somewhat differently in 


Chart 12: 
The First 
Vowel 


Commentary 





188 


PART III: THE MODIFIERS 


all the different Marys and Margarets, of course, depending on 
their cores and other modifiers. But, when you start to look, 
you’ll be amazed (a) that the approach is usually very much 
apparent, and (b) that the approach is expressed in such a 
variety of ways because of the presence of the other numbers. I 
particularly enjoy this exercise because it doesn’t involve any 
calculations. With a little practice, you can shake hands with a 
person, think about their first name, and, almost instantly, 
have some useful awarenesses. 

This may be fun to practice, but you can’t, of course, use the 
First Letter and First Vowel all by themselves and expect to ac¬ 
quire a deep understanding of another person. These are two 
modifiers and must always be viewed as modifiers of the core 
energies. Let’s examine a few illustrations of the natural ap¬ 
proach modifying the core. 


Example: 
The core 
energies are 
limited 


Muriel has a 6 Life Path 

1 Expression 

2 Soul Urge 

7 Birthday 

Muriel’s energy is likely to be devoted to harmonizing and 
balancing situations (6), leading and promoting (1), giving love 
and affection (2), as well as expressing some creative urges (6). 

Muriel’s long First Vowel U describes, among other traits, a 
conservative streak and a sense of indecisiveness. Muriel’s First 
Letter M indicates a controlled approach, self-discipline and a 
steady, thorough worker. Muriel’s approach to her experiences 
is likely to reflect these characteristics. She’ll tend to LIMIT her 
growth because of her approach. (It’s true that the U will also 
stress sensitivity and idealism while the M will also stress organ¬ 
izational ability. The positive qualities of these traits will, of 
themselves, enhance the possibilities for growth, but the total 
effect of the MU leans toward the conservative and con¬ 
trolled—toward limiting development.) 


Example: 
The core 
energies are 
enhanced 


Clive has the same core as Muriel. 

But Clive’s long First Vowel I describes a very intense ap¬ 
proach with much passion and sensitivity. And Clive’s First 
Letter C stresses an exhilarating expression of the joy of living 
coupled with spontaneous creative inspiration. Since Clive’s 
response to his experience will probably stress these traits, his 
approach will ENHANCE his development. 



CHAPTER 20: FIRST LETTER; FIRST VOWEL 


189 


Don has a 5 Life Path 

3 Expression 

1 Soul Urge 

2 Birthday 

Don’s energy is probably involved in making the most of the 
exciting opportunities he finds (5), expressing the joy of living 
(3), actively seeking situations where he can use his abilities (1). 

Don’s short First Vowel O indicates stress on responsibility, 
self containment, controlled emotions, an innate understanding 
of how to protect himself from life’s storms. Don’s First Letter 
D describes a self-disciplined, efficient, conservative approach. 
With a different core, Don’s natural approach might stifle and 
restrict his growth, but, with his high-flying core energy, Don’s 
approach is more likely to STABILIZE his development. 


Example: 
The core 
energies are 
stabilized 


It’s usually fairly simple to describe the natural approach to 
experience, but it’s not always as easy, as in the above three ex¬ 
amples, to pinpoint the limiting, stabilizing or enhancing ten¬ 
dencies. If the effect of the approach on a person’s experience 
proves more complex than in our simple examples, describe 
which individual traits are limiting, which stabilizing and 
which enhancing. And it’s fine if it feels a little ambiguous! 
Life—and character traits—more often than not, are full of 
complexities and ambiguities. A partially ambiguous reading is 
merely a reflection y of the person’s ambiguous structure! 


Here are a few special cases: 

When the first letter is the First Vowel, as in Abigail, Everett 
or Yvette, the traits of the First Vowel provide the complete 
description of the natural approach. 


Special 

cases 


When there are combined vowels, the traits usually ascribed 
to the First Vowel are actually a combination of the traits of 
the two vowels involved. The vowel which is more strongly 
pronounced would tend to be more strongly expressed in the 
approach. 

For example, the combined vowels at the beginning of 
Audrey are also the first letters. The A is the stronger sound in 
the first syllable, so the A traits predominate over the U traits. 



190 


PART III: THE MODIFIERS 


The combined A describes a sensitive leader, while the com¬ 
bined U describes a conservative receptor. I would expect any 
Audrey to have an innate approach stressing her leadership 
ability, her originality and her good mind (A characteristics), 
helped by her sensitivity and somewhat blunted by her in¬ 
decisive ways (U characteristics). 


When there are combined vowels and one of them is a W or 
Y, the W or Y traits are always weaker than the traits of the 
other vowel. If the vowel is W, it adds its approach along with 
a vacillating nature. If the vowel is Y, it adds a vacillating 
nature only. 

For example, Boyd’s natural approach is a combination of 
the traits of the combined vowels OY (sixty percent) with the 
First Letter B (forty percent). O describes a responsible, conser¬ 
vative, self-contained, sympathetic individual. Y adds indeci¬ 
sion and restlessness. B’s approach is shy, retiring, indecisive, 
very sensitive and very emotional. 

Boyd’s natural approach to experience would tend to be: 


conservative 
self-centered 
sympathetic 
very sensitive 
very emotional 
indecisive 


(from the O) 

(from the O) 

(from the O) 

(from the B) 

(from the B) 

(from the B and Y) 


When the modifier number of the First Letter or First Vowel 
is the same as the number of a core element, there is a strong 
ENHANCING effect. The enhancing effect of the vowel is con¬ 
siderably stronger than the enhancing effect of the letter. 

The I in Michael describes the approach of a humanitarian. 
If Michael has a Life Path of 9, he will tend to approach the op¬ 
portunities of the 9—giving of himself for the deep satisfaction 
of giving—with innate understanding. 


When the modifier number of the First Letter or First Vowel 
is the same as a doubled core element, there is a strong 
LIMITING effect. The limiting effect of the vowel is consider¬ 
ably stronger than the limiting effect of the letter. 

The D in Daniel describes the approach of a steady builder. 
If Daniel’s Expression and Soul Urge are both 4, he will tend 
(according to the 4-4 aspect in chart 6: the aspects) to feel: 

Limited, tied down, frustrated, or 
Disorganized, unaccountable. 



CHAPTER 20: FIRST LETTER ; FIRST VOWEL 


191 


With his innate approach partially described by the self- 
disciplined, rigid, self-contained approach of the D, you can be 
sure he’ll feel limited, tied down and frustrated rather than 
disorganized and unaccountable. You can also be sure that his 
innate approach will emphasize the similar qualities in his Ex¬ 
pression and Soul Urge. His rational approach will tend to limit 
his development. 


In a delineation, the expression of the First Letter 
and First Vowel is best described in a separate paragraph or 
two discussing the characteristics of the natural approach to ex¬ 
perience as well as the tendency to limit, stabilize or enhance 
the core energies. 

Betty has a 1 Life Path 
4 Expression 
8 Soul Urge 
6 Birthday 


How to use 
the First 
Letter and 
First Vowel 
in a 

delineation 


Betty’s energy is likely to be devoted to achieving indepen¬ 
dence (1), assuming leadership (1), carrying responsibility (4), 
organizing (4), using her executive abilities (8), being a good 
friend (6). 

The paragraphs in her delineation expressing the First Letter 
and First Vowel might read as follows: 


Betty is likely to approach her life experiences 
with a feeling.of adventure (£), a desire for excite¬ 
ment and variety (£). She tends to adapt herself 
well (£). She uses her good mind (£), her good 
perceptions and judgments of people, motiva¬ 
tions and events (£) as well as her capability with 
details (B). She knows how to foster harmony in 
groups in which she's involved (B). These character¬ 
istics will tend to enhance her role as a leader and 
executive. 


Betty's extreme sensitivity sometimes makes it dif¬ 
ficult to work with others who are less sensitive (B). 
Her tendency to be shy, retiring and self-contained 
(B) often keeps her more comfortable in a subor¬ 
dinate role (B). Although she starts many projects, 
she tends to abandon some of them or set them 
aside for a later time (£). These traits are likely to 
limit her strong capability for leadership and 
organization. 



192 


PART 111: THE MODIFIERS 


Here, we discuss both enhancing and limiting traits. Note 
that more space is devoted to the predominant E traits than to 
the B characteristics. 


Hal Allen’s 
organization 
sheet and 
delineation 


Hal’s First Letter and First Vowel, along with his Tempera¬ 
ment, are placed in the row reserved for directing modifiers on 
the organization sheet (Figure 20-1 below). These three are the 
only modifiers not grouped by modifier numbers. 


Turn to Step 25, page 216, and read the paragraphs of Hal’s 
delineation which discuss his natural approach to experience. 


* 


0 





1 

Four l’s 


1 Challenge 

5 

2 


2 Maturity 
Number 

2 Karmic Lesson 

6 

► 3 

Five 3’s 

3 Prime 
Intensifier 



3 

4 





- 5 


0 

14/5 

(0)-5 

5 

- 6 


6 Secret Self 

6 Modified 
Karmic Lesson 

6 

7 



7 Karmic Lesson 

(7) 

8 





-9 


® 

9 Growth 
Number 


9 

11 


11 Maturity 
Number 


9 

22 





Temperament: Strong Mental 

DIRKCTINO Weak Intuitive 

MODIFIED* First Letter: H -^ 

First Vowel: A\ f — ” 


50% of elements, sub-elements in 3, 6, 9 Group 


Figure 20-1 

Organization Sheet with First Letter and First Vowel 





CHAPTER 21: SYNTHESIS 


193 


CHAPTER 21 

SYNTHESIS OF THE CORE 
AND MODIFIERS 


We’ve now examined all the modifiers, one by one, and 
become reasonably acquainted with their relative importance, 
their modifying powers and their peculiarities. The modifiers 
have been carefully separated in order to make the distinctions 
among them as clear as possible. At last, we’re ready to com¬ 
bine the modifiers with the core elements to arrive at a com¬ 
plete synthesis. 

The delineation that follows starts with the slightly fuzzy 
black-and-white reproduction of Harlan William Allen that we 
produced in Chapter 7 when we synthesized the core elements. 
By adding the modifiers, we’ll convert the blurred black-and- 
white photo into a full-color focused portrait. Harlan (or Hal) 
will, of course, have the same characteristics in the portrait 
that he did in the reproduction, but the clearer focus and the 
added color will bring out considerably more detail. 


Hal’s delineation, like all others, starts with the calculations. 
Here’s Hal’s calculation sheet (Figure 21-1 on page 194), com¬ 
plete with all the modifiers. 


Hal Allen’s 
calculation 
sheet 


Based on the idea of grouping comparable energies to add to 
the coherence of the delineation, here’s Hal’s organization sheet 
(Figure 21-2 on page 196), showing the modifiers along with 
the core elements. The right-hand column indicates the 
modifier number with which each energy is to be grouped. 


Hal Allen’s 

organization 

sheet 





194 


PART III: THE MODIFIERS 


January 1981 
HAL ALLEN 


5 SUB-ELEMENT 
WITH 5 LIFE PATH 
Chapter 13 




1 CHALLENGE- 


KARMIC DEBT 
Chapter 11 

LIFE PATH] 
Chapter 3 

] BIRTH DAY \ 
Chapter 6 

-CHALLENGE 
Chapter 14 


(19) 1 


FIRST LETTER- 


Chapter 20 


GROWTH 

NUMBER- 


1 1 

9 

9 1 

1 5 

\ 

JIARLAN 

WILLIAM 

ALLEN 

8 93 5 

5 33 

4 

33 5 

(25) 7 + 

(15) 6 

+ 11 

819315 

5933914 

1 3355 

(27) ,9 + 

(34) 7 

+ (17) 8 


- 0 . 


{SOUL URGE\ 
Chapter 5 


24 = 6- - SECRET SELF 

Chapter 1 7 


= 24 = 


Chapter 15 


i( 6 \- \ EXPRESS ION] 

' Chapter 4 


Chapter 12: 

FOUR IS INTENSITY POINT -- four l’s 

2 KARMIC LESSON - -no 2 

FIVE 3’S INTENSITY POINT U--- five 3’s 

3 PRIME INTENSIFIER 1 one 4 

four 5’s 

6 MODIFIED KARMIC LESSON -- no 6 

7 KARMIC LESSON - : - -no 7 

one 8 


three 9’s 


MATURITY 
NUMBER— 
Chapter 16 


MATURITY NUMBER = 5 + 6 = 11/2 /- -TEMPERAMENT 

/ Chapter 19 


PHYSICAL 

WME 

3-Average 

MENTAL 

HALANLLAALLN 

12-Strong 

EMOTIONAL 

RII 

3-Average 

INTUITIVE 


O-Weak 


Figure 21-1 
Calculation Sheet: 
Hal Allen 



CHAPTER 21: SYNTHESIS 


195 


Here are Hal’s energy groups shown diagramatically just as 
they were back in Chapter 10: 


5 energy ••••••••OOOO added 5 and 1 

energy 

6 energy ••••••OOO added 6 and 2 

energy 

9 energy • • • • O O added 9 and 11 

energy 

3 energy • • O O O added 3 energy 

Misc. 

energy O added 7 energy 


In Chapter 10, we didn’t have any information about the 
specific modifiers. Now that we do, we can convert the energy 
group diagram into an outline for Hal’s delineation, using the 
actual modifiers listed on his organization sheet. (And, at the 
end of the outline, we’ll add the directing modifiers, which, 
though discussed in Chapter 10, were not included in the 
diagram.) 


Hal Allen’s 
energy group 
diagram 


5 ENERGY AND RELATED ENERGY 

Core: 5 Life Path 

Modifiers: 14/5 Karmic Debt 

5 Life Path/5 sub-Life Path 
Four l’s Intensity Point 
1 Challenge 

6 ENERGY ANEf RELATED ENERGY 


Core: 6 Expression 

Modifiers: 6 Secret Self 

6 Modified Karmic Lesson 
3,6,9 group: fifty percent of 
elements and sub-elements 
2 Maturity Number 
2 Karmic Lesson 


Hal Allen’s 
delineation 
outline 


9 ENERGY AND RELATED ENERGY 

Core: 9 Soul Urge 

Modifiers: 9 Growth Number 

11 Maturity Number 


3 ENERGY 

Core: 3 Birthday 

Modifiers: . Five 3’s Intensity Point 

3 Prime Intensifier 








First Letter: H 
First Vowel: A 






























CHAPTER 21: SYNTHESIS 


197 


We want to be sure that the core is preserved in the reading. 
To do this, we’ll use the 22 steps of the core synthesis of 
Chapter 7 as a base. We’ll insert the modifiers in the relevant 
places based on the outline we’ve just developed. 

Let’s look, for instance, at the 5 and 6 energy in the outline. 
The heart of the 5 energy is, of course, the 5 Life Path which is 
described in Steps 2 through 8. The description of the four 
modifiers connected with the 5 Life Path will be inserted in the 
most appropriate place in those steps. The 6 Expression, 
covered in Steps 9 through 14, will have its five corresponding 
modifiers inserted in the most appropriate place in those steps 
or, in one instance which we’ll note, omitted as repetitious. 
When we’ve completed the 22 steps, we’ll add an additional 
step to describe the miscellaneous energy and two additional 
steps to describe the directing modifiers. 

We now have a plan of action! 


Below, then, is Hal Allen’s complete synthesis. We’ll list each 
step, just as we did in Chapter 7, then provide explanations, in 
italics, of the many modifications to the original core synthesis 
required by the addition of the modifiers. 

The actual delineation will be shown indented. The delinea¬ 
tion contains all the paragraphs from the original core synthesis 
plus additional paragraphs describing the modifiers. 

A paragraph taken intact from Hal’s core synthesis looks like 
this: 

Although you may well be involved in domestic 
activities, you may feel the pressures of the 
responsibilities conflicting. . . . 

A paragraph from Hal’s core synthesis which is now deleted 
looks like this: 

Th e r e ' s a chanc e that yo uMI b e s o e x hi larat e d w i th 
the opportun itie s b e for e you ; that you' ll f lit from 
th i n g to th i ng w i th. . 

A new paragraph, not originally included in the core syn¬ 
thesis, looks like this: 

You will unlock your experiences when you give of 
yourself for the pleasure of giving—giving money, 
time, friendship, affection, love. 


Hal Allen’s 
complete 
step-by-step 
delineation 



198 


PART III: THE MODIFIERS 


NUMEROLOGY DELINEATION 
FOR 

HARLAN WILLIAM ALLEN 
BORN MAY 12, 1941 


STEP 1 

DERIVE THE ELEMENTS OF THE CORE. 

The calculations for core and modifiers replaces this original 

step in the core synthesis. The calculations are shown on the 

calculation sheet on page 194. 

STEP 2 

EXPRESS THE CENTRAL FOCUS OF THE 5 LIFE PATH. 

The central focus remains fixed, irrespective of all modifiers. 

The original paragraph is unchanged. 

The central focus of your life is learning the ex¬ 
hilaration of the constructive use of freedom. Life 
is full of exciting opportunities for you —there can 
be much variety, change, unusual happenings, 
unusual people, unforeseen adventure. You will 
find that you are capable at almost any task, that 
you are talented in a number of directions. The 
world is your oyster—there are exciting things to 
do at every turn —and that undoubtedly is the dif¬ 
ficulty. You must learn how to pick and choose; 
how to seek experiences which will be of benefit, 
how to discard those things that are not working, 
how to profit from every experience. You must 
learn not to waste your time or scatter your forces, 
not to get lost in purely physical delights —food, 
sex, drink or drugs. It can be sheer delight to be a 
rolling stone, but the frustration of moving from 
place to place, from person to person, from oppor¬ 
tunity to opportunity may eventually overwhelm 
the delight. 

STEP 3 

EXPRESS THE SUB-FOCUS OF THE 3 BIRTHDAY. 

While you're learning how to use freedom, learn 
the joy of expressing yourself. Give of yourself, 
openly, warmly, with delight. Learn, too, to express 




CHAPTER 21: SYNTHESIS 


199 


yourself, us i ng your - good i magination, your ar ¬ 
t i stic abi li t i es, but e sp e c i ally, your abi l ity w i th 
words. 

Note that a portion of the original paragraph above has been 
deleted since similar material is covered in the added 
paragraph below. We’re trying to minimize the repetition 
throughout. 


Add the five 3’s Intensity Point (chart 8: the intensity table) 
and the 3 Prime Intensifier (chart 8: the intensity table) 
here. 

These predominantly positive modifiers are added here to the 
positive energy of the 3 Birthday. These modifiers could have 
been included in Step 7: Characteristics of the Birthday. 
They’re included here instead because I wanted to start the 
reading on a strong positive note. There’s going to be a lot of 
negative energy expressed in this delineation—the 14/5 Karmic 
Debt in particular. If you begin the reading very positively, the 
subject is likely to be more receptive when the going gets rough. 

Learn, too, to express your superior talents in 
music, art or writing, reinforced by your excellent 
creative imagination. In particular, you're likely to 
have a strong.capability with words —your verbal 
and written self-expression may be one of the 
areas where you really shine. Your creative talent, 
imagination and verbal abilities are probably a- 
mong your most obvious strong traits . 

If you scatter your energies or act immoderately 
(and you do have these tendencies), you'll be 
working against your own best interests . 

The description of the 3,6,9 group is omitted from the delinea¬ 
tion because it covers the same material as these 3 modifiers. 

STEP 4 

EXPRESS THE HARMONY OR DISCORD OF THE 5 LIFE 
PATH/3 BIRTHDAY ASPECT. 

The paragraph is deleted. It’s essentially repeating a portion of 
Step 3. 









200 


PART III: THE MODIFIERS 


Your ab ili ty to giv e of yourself i n social s i tuation 
as w e ll as w i th creat i ve express i on — most likely 
with word s— w i l l h e lp in work i ng toward an awar e¬ 
n e ss of th e construct i ve us e of fr ee dom. 

STEP 5 

DETERMINE THE HARMONY OR DISCORD OF THE 5 

LIFE PATH/6 EXPRESSION AND THE 5 LIFE PATH/9 

SOUL URGE ASPECTS. 

There’s no description included here. 


STEP 6 

EXPRESS THE CHARACTERISTICS OF THE 5 LIFE 
PATH. 

The 14/5 Karmic Debt (chart 7: the karmic debt) describes 
obstacles to be overcome. The existence of the Karmic Debt is 
explained in the paragraph below. 

The major negative effects of the Debt are described in Step 8. 
The configuration of your chart indicates that you 
started out in life with some blockages which must 
be overcome before you can make the most of 
your strong positive potential. I can't tell whether 
you've already overcome the obstacles —some 
people manage it early in life, others spend a good 
number of years struggling with the impediments. 

Since the Karmic Debt blocks the early growth of the po¬ 
tentials, the first two original paragraphs are deleted and 
replaced by new paragraphs reflecting the ultimate develop¬ 
ment of the potential rather than the immediate use of the 
energy at birth. 

Remember that Harlan is in his forties at the time of the 
reading and has probably overcome some of the Karmic Debt 
obstructions. There’s no way to read at precisely what age the 
various obstacles have been or will be constructively managed. 

You arc probably versati l e and act i v e and can do 
a l most anyth i ng w i th sup e r i or talent. Although 
you ar e i nt e rested i n the n e w, d i ff e r e nt or pro ¬ 
gress i ve, you usua l ly proc ee d here w i th - aw a r e n e s s 
of - your- fe sponsibilit i es and concern for others . 













CHAPTER 21: SYNTHESIS 


201 


Here are some of the strong positive potentials 
you may be using now or can ultimately develop: 

You'll be able to show your versatility and do al¬ 
most anything with superior talent. Your interest in 
the new, different or progressive will be balanced 
with your awareness of your responsibilities and 
concern for others. 

Y ou are apt t o b e c l ev e r, w i th an -i nbo r n ab ili ty to 
a cc o mpl is h what you want. You may b e a qu i ck 
t ht nk c r w i th a good abi li ty to ana l yz e , although 
th at abi li ty isn't a l ways us e d to ^ furth e r - your b e st 
int ere sts. 

You can learn to use your cleverness along with 
your inborn ability to accomplish what you want. 
You'll be able to use your quick thinking and good 
ability to analyze to further your best interests. 

Delete the paragraph below and don’t replace it with a new 
paragraph. The restlessness, etc. are considerably aggravated 
by the Karmic Debt, but the potentially erratic nature is fully 
covered in Step 8. 

Al th ough you sometim e s hav e f ee lings of r e stl e ss ¬ 
ness, i mpatienc e- and the des i r e- to try somethi n g 
n e w, th e se f ee lings are temp e red by your d e sire 
fo e balanc e i n your lif e and tho s e around you as 
wel l as your concern fo r g i v i ng to oth e r s? 

The original paragraph below is deleted and replaced by a 
paragraph reflecting the erratic nature emphasized by the 
Karmic Debt. 

A l though you love chang e- and enjoy t ra v el a n d 
adv e ntur e , you ar e also capab le of - rout i n e tasks 
d e mand e d by your s e n se of r e spons ibi l i ty. A t 
t i m e s, th e s e tra i ts may produc e - f ee li ngs of con - 
fhet 

Early in life, your ability to perform the routine 
tasks demanded by your sense of responsibility is 
likely to conflict with your free spirit. You'll have 
to learn how to deal more comfortably with this 


work. 



202 


PART III: THE MODIFIERS 


The last three original paragraphs of this step describe traits 
which are likely to shine despite the handicap of the Debt, but 
the Debt is likely to create some problems so that the full 
brilliance of the described characteristics is somewhat restric¬ 
ted. The three replacement paragraphs clarify this state of 
affairs. 

You ar e probab l y a d e lightful companion and can 
i nspire and d eli ght with your enthusiasm. You may 
occasionally hav e to t e mp e r your sudden impu l s es 
to change d i rect i on. 

I'd expect that people's view of you as a delightful 
companion, bubbling over with new plans and en¬ 
thusiasm, is one of your strongest potentials. You 
probably have to learn, though, to temper your 
sudden impulses to change direction. 

Y ou ar e e nthus i ast i c. - You tac kle e ach n e w e xp e 
ri e ne e w i th - ren e w e d e nthus i asm . 

Your enthusiasm, too, is a strong potential, but 
you probably have to work to curb the excessively 
whimsical, inconsistent or unpredictable outbursts 
of your spirit. 

You t e nd t<> e x p r e s s e t e rnal - youth. Th e e xc i t e m e nt 
of li f e k eep s you young. 

You tend to express eternal youth. Although the 
excitement of life keeps you young, you may have 
to learn to distinguish between youthfulness and 
childishness. 

STEP 7 

EXPRESS THE CHARACTERISTICS OF THE 12 BIRTH¬ 
DAY. 

Omit the phrase covering creative talent since this is well- 
described in Step 3. 

Omit the last sentence. The scattering is considerably aggra¬ 
vated by the 14/5 Karmic Debt. The potentially erratic nature is 
fully explored in Step 8. 

You are probably good with words. You work we R 
us i ng you n-o r t g t nal strongly cr e ativ e approach ? 







CHAPTER 21: SYNTHESIS 


203 


You usually express the joy of living. People are 
likely to see you as cheerful, friendly and sociable, 
a good conversationalist, full of energy. You have 
a good mind. You're likely to be affectionate, lov¬ 
ing and sensitive. Your strong feelings may cause 
occasional rapid ups and downs and you may tend 
to repress these feelings in business. Y ou usua lly 
hav e- many int ere sts, so - you'r e l i k e ly to - scatt ef 


STEP 8 

DISCUSS THE NEGATIVE EXPRESSION OF THE 5 LIFE 
PATH. 

This step describes the negative effect of the major negative 
modifier—the 14/5 Karmic Debt. 

As if that wasn’t bad enough, we have three additional 
negative modifiers in this step: 

a. The 5 Life Path/5 sub-element aspect, discussed just 
below. 

b. The four 1 ’s Intensity Point, discussed at the end of the step. 

c. The 1 Challenge, also discussed at the end of the step. 

These four negative modifiers are all grouped with the 5 
energy, and this step is where all their negative potential is 
described. This is undoubtedly the most negative portion of the 
entire delineation. The impediments should be expressed as 
constructively as possible so as not to overwhelm the subject. 

Always indicate some positive action that will help alleviate the 
difficulties. > 

The 5 Life Path/5 sub-element aspect (chart 6: the aspects) 
describes two possible negative directions: (1) freedom used 
carelessly, or (2) fear of freedom. The first possibility, simi¬ 
lar to part of the 14/5 Karmic Debt, is discussed later in this 
step. The second possibility occurs infrequently, but should be 
mentioned. 

The original first paragraph of this step describes this fear of 
freedom and the added paragraph comments on its rarity. 

When you are hesitant about using your freedom, 
it may seem easier to retreat into a safe and stable 
situation. When you do this, the changes and 
uncertainty will-still be there, but you'll probably 
have difficulty dealing with them. 



204 


PART III: THE MODIFIERS 


There's not too much chance that you'll be afraid 
of freedom and retreat like this. If you do, though, 
you certainly won't be learning how to overcome 
the obstructions. 

The original paragraph below is deleted . . , 

Th ere ' s a chanc e that you' ll- b e- so e xh il arat e d w i th 
th e- oppc H ' j t t mtt es- b ef or e" yoti - tfia t yottT l jtt mpfTom 
t h i ng to th i ng w i th madd e n i ng sp ee d, l ost i n ov e r 
i ndu l g e nc e or e rratic b e hav i or. -T-hi s i s apt t o br i ng 
much fru s trat i on. 

. . . and replaced with four paragraphs describing the negative 
effect of the 14/5 Karmic Debt (chart 7: the karmic debt). Note 
that the problems covered in the first two paragraphs are the 
same problems that result from the 5-5 aspect. 

You're likely, particularly in your early years, to go 
from activity to activity with maddening speed, 
changing direction at the drop of a hat. At the 
least, your actions will tend toward the erratic. 
You can't move ahead constructively until you've 
learned to tone down this side of yOur nature- 
jumping around, with little sense of accomplish¬ 
ment or accountability, works against you. 

Your tendency to overindulgence in eating, sensu¬ 
ality, liquor or drugs also gets in the way of for¬ 
ward progress. Learn to curb your appetite for 
excessive physical stimulation. 

You must learn the important lesson of change: to 
begin to nurture an interest or relation, to expe¬ 
rience it in full bloom, to detach from it when it 
is completed. This is likely to be a difficult lesson. 
Instead of appreciating the beauties which enter 
(and leave) your life, you may be beset with disap¬ 
pointment at losses which are either beyond your 
control or caused by your lack of awareness. 

You can approach your positive potential when 




CHAPTER 21: SYNTHESIS 


20 5 


you overcome these obstacles and, also, learn to 
profit from your experience instead of repeating 
mistakes. Until you shift to a positive direction, 
you are likely to meet delays or losses. 

The original paragraph below is deleted . . . 

Th e s e n e gat i v e e xpress i ons ar e unproduct i v e . Th e y 
shou l d b e avo i d e d in order to proc ee d construc - 
t 4 ve l y - w it h -y ou - r - d e v e I opm e nt. 

. . . and replaced with this paragraph explaining why the subject 
faces so many handicaps. 

Your problems with freedom and overindulgence 
are payments in this life to balance a Karmic Debt 
developed from a misuse of freedom in a previous 
life. 

These new paragraphs below complete Step 8. They cover a 
combined description of the four l’s Intensity Point (chart 8: 
the intensity table ) and the 1 Challenge (chart 9: the 
challenge/the growth number). 

There are some problem areas not related to the 
Karmic Debt. 

A part of you tends to be self-centered with strong 
interests that must be satisfied. This self-centered 
part tends to control and dominate, but the domi¬ 
nation usually offends others. 

In your early years, you may have felt dominated 
by people with strong influence, probably parents 
or others on whom you were dependent. You may 
have felt that your desires weren't being met, your 
needs opposed. To feel less restricted, you may 
have tried to please everyone, but you're not likely 
to have found much satisfaction in that endeavor. 
You probably ended up displeased yourself as well 
as confused and resentful. 

Using the courage of your convictions in taking 
care of your own needs should have helped. You 





















206 


PART III: THE MODIFIERS 


probably have to remain watchful to protect your¬ 
self from domination, but dominating others is cer¬ 
tainly not the answer. 

You can exhibit much courage and independent 
feelings, often in the face of great difficulties, but 
your potential to use your original ideas and lead¬ 
ership abilities for positive ends may be stifled by 
your self-centered lack of awareness. 

Step 8 is undoubtedly the most complex part of the delineation. 

Be sure you understand the derivation of all the material. 

With the completion of Step 8, we’ve completed the portion of 

the reading devoted to the 5 Life Path and its related energies. 

Now, we move on to the 6 Expression and its related potential. 


There are five modifiers related to the 6 Expression. The 3,6,9 
group description can be omitted since the description would 
only repeat information already covered in Step 3. The remain¬ 
ing modifiers are either neutral or add difficulties along with 
the energy to resolve the problems—a far cry from the deep 
negativity of Step 8. 

STEP 9 

EXPRESS THE ABILITIES OF THE 6 EXPRESSION. 

Add a new portion at the beginning of the original paragraph 
as a transition from the 5 Life Path to the 6 Expression descrip¬ 
tion. 

Along with the part of you that's a free spirit, 
there's another completely different side of you 

— the you -a r e probab l y a responsible, helpful and 
conscientious person. You have the ability to rectify 
and balance inharmonious situations and you would 
be available to give help and comfort to those in 
need. You would work well where the care of the 
old, young or sick are involved. You probably show 
concern for the betterment of the community. You 
ar e apt to poss e ss cr e at i v e and art i stic tal e nts. 

Delete the last sentence above. It’s similar to Step 3. The next 
original paragraph remains unchanged. 




CHAPTER 21: SYNTHESIS 


20 7 


It's possible that you're not using or developing all 
of these capabilities at this time. Some of your 
talents may have been used in the earlier part of 
your life and some may still be latent. Be aware of 
your capabilities, so that you can make use of 
them at appropriate times. 

STEP 10 

EXPRESS THE HARMONY OR DISCORD OF THE 5 LIFE 

PATH/6 EXPRESSION ASPECT. 

The original paragraphs remain unchanged. 

You are probably exhilarated by all the exciting 
opportunities and adventures so often present in 
your life. It may be difficult, at times, to give up 
this excitement to satisfy your responsibilities. 
There may even be times when you want to shirk 
these responsibilities or give them up altogether to 
enjoy the excitement of freedom. 

Ignoring your responsibilities will probably not be 
very satisfying for you. You have to find some way 
to satisfy the adventurous side of your nature and, 
at the same time, enjoy the pleasures you receive 
when you express the responsible, conscientious 
side. You may find that an out-of-the-ordinary job 
may be.hedpful in balancing the quiet stability you 
may desire in a close family. Or, you might plan 
exciting trips or follow some unusual avocations 
to offset the solid, respectable job which gives you 
satisfaction. 

STEP 11 

EXPRESS THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE 5 LIFE PATH/6 

EXPRESSION COMBINATION. 

The original paragraph remains unchanged. 

You have the potential to take advantage of the 
opportunities presented with relative ease, to 
make the most of the experiences which come 
your way. Your natural abilities will probably find 
ample field for expression. The environment will 
allow your talents to be displayed and appre¬ 
ciated. As your capabilities find the opportunities 




208 


PART III: THE MODIFIERS 


to expand to meet their potential, your develop¬ 
ment will progress in a manner which may bring 
you much satisfaction. 

STEP 12 

DETERMINE THE HARMONY OR DISCORD OF THE 6 
EXPRESSION/5 LIFE PATH AND THE 6 EXPRESSION/9 
SOUL URGE ASPECTS. 

There’s no description included here. 

STEP 13 

EXPRESS THE POSITIVE ATTITUDES OF THE 6 EX¬ 
PRESSION. 

The four modifiers related to the 6 Expression are all included 
in this step. Their effect is to significantly increase Hal’s capa¬ 
bilities beyond what was apparent in the description of the core 
alone. 

The first original paragraph remains . . . 

When you are involved closely with people, you 
are probably most loving, friendly and apprecia¬ 
tive of others, as well as very sympathetic, kind, 
generous and understanding. There may be times, 
though, when you prefer not to be involved at all. 

. . . enhanced by some of the characteristics described by the 2 
Karmic Lesson (chart 8: the intensity table) . . . 

You're likely to find yourself in situations where 
a sensitive nature, along with a diplomatic manner 
are imperative for positive development. You were 
probably born with an innate ability to express 
these traits. 

. . . and with Hal’s sensitivity highlighted, because of the 2 
Maturity Number (chart 10: the maturity number). 

Now that you're in your forties, you may want to 
reevaluate the satisfactions you've derived from 
your sensitivity. Have you developed so that your 
strong sensitivity can be comfortably used? Have 
you learned how to say and do what you need 
without feeling your sensitivity compromised? Do 



CHAPTER 21: SYNTHESIS 


209 


shyness or uncertainty block you from a full ex¬ 
pression of your sensitivity? 

At this time in your life, you may want to revise 
some of your attitudes and actions in order to bet¬ 
ter express your sensitivity and to better receive 
others' friendship and affection as a reward for 
that expression. 


The second original paragraph remains . . . 

Although you may well be involved in domestic 
activities, you may feel the pressures of these 
responsibilities conflicting with your own need for 
individuality. The resolution of this conflict (or the 
lack of resolution) will determine how good a hus¬ 
band and parent you are. 

. . . enhanced by the characteristics described by the 6 Modi¬ 
fied Karmic Lesson (chart 8: the intensity table). 

You'll be capable of balancing, adjusting, harmon¬ 
izing, serving others, and will show these traits 
strongly in marriage and parenting situations 
where these abilities are likely to be necessary to 
keep affairs running smoothly. You're likely to 
have much responsibility to carry, but you're will¬ 
ing and able to carry it. Family and friends will de¬ 
pend on you for support, and you'll be there when 
needed. 


This is a good place for a brief description of the 6 Secret Self. 

You probably have a dream of being part of a lov¬ 
ing family—an adoring wife and children —in a 
beautiful home, with you as the guiding spirit. 


And here’s the last original paragraph to complete Step 13. 

You are probably extremely open and honest with 
others. 





210 


PART III: THE MODIFIERS 


STEP 14 

EXPRESS THE NEGATIVE ATTITUDES OF THE 6 EX¬ 
PRESSION. 

The original paragraphs remain unchanged. 

There is the possibility that you may be too exac¬ 
ting of yourself and willing to sacrifice yourself (or 
your family) for the welfare of others, but your 
strong individual needs will probably mitigate this 
attitude. 

At times, you may have substantial difficulty dis¬ 
tinguishing helping from interfering. 

Although you may express worry and anxiety, you 
are apt to try and cover these feelings and look at 
the bright side instead. 

The expression of your individual needs will prob- 
bably keep you from becoming a drudge because 
of excessive involvement with your respon¬ 
sibilities. 

With the completion of Step 14, we’ve completed the portion 
of the reading devoted to the 6 Expression and its related 
energies. Now, we move on to the 9 Soul Urge and its related 
potential. 


There are only two modifiers related to the 9 Soul Urge. The 
9 Growth Number adds a strong note to Step 15. The 11 Matur¬ 
ity Number is mentioned in passing in Step 21. 

STEP 15 

EXPRESS THE MOTIVES OF THE 9 SOUL URGE. 

The question here serves as a transition from the 6 Expression 
to the 9 Soul Urge. 

What are your deep inner motivations? 

The original paragraph remains unchanged. 

Your inner nature wants to give of itself to 
others —usually in a humanitarian or philanthropic 
manner. You probably want to give much of 
friendship, affecton, love. You may want to give 




CHAPTER 21: SYNTHESIS 


211 


your knowledge and experience. You may also 
want to share with others your artistic or creative 
talents. It's possible that these talents are of con¬ 
siderable magnitude. 

The description of the 9 Growth Number (chart 9: the chal¬ 
lenge/the growth number) fits well here. 

You will help expand your development when you 
give of yourself for the pleasure of giving —giving 
money, time, friendship, affection, love, under¬ 
standing, sympathy. You must give with little ex¬ 
pectation of return or reward. Allow the needs of 
others to take precedence over your personal am¬ 
bitions. This seemingly difficult direction can 
bring the deepest of satisfactions. You have a 
good deal of energy tending in this direction. 


STEP 16 

EXPRESS THE HARMONY OR DISCORD OF THE 5 LIFE 
PATH/9 SOUL URGE ASPECT. 

The original paragraph remains unchanged, although it re¬ 
sembles Step 10. (In an advanced delineation. Steps 10 and 16 
would be combined.) 

Although your inner nature feels the need to give 
to others, you may often feel torn between this 
need and your stronger need to explore the exhilar¬ 
ating opportunities that present themselves for 
your personal development. You must learn to 
balance these opposing energies to avoid the 
frustration of missing an adventure or the sadness 
of not being available to those in need of your 
help. 

STEP 17 

EXPRESS THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE 5 LIFE PATH/9 
SOUL URGE COMBINATION. 

The original paragraph remains unchanged. 

Although you are able to recognize your oppor¬ 
tunities, you find somewhat fewer possibilities 
than you would like to advance your inner devel- 



212 


PART III: THE MODIFIERS 


opment. The experiences at hand, while not neces¬ 
sarily presenting opportunities to fulfill your inner 
needs, are apt to act as a secondary motivating 
force. Make the most of these experiences. Learn 
to accept the natural pace of your development. 

STEP 18 

EXPRESS THE HARMONY OR DISCORD OF THE 6 EX¬ 
PRESSION/9 SOUL URGE ASPECT. 

The original paragraphs remain unchanged. 

Your natural talent at being helpful and able to 
balance inharmonious situations will be substan¬ 
tially aided by your inner need to give to others, 
often without thought of yourself. You may be 
much concerned with the betterment of the com¬ 
munity and capable of assisting in that better¬ 
ment. 

You are apt to be strongly motivated to develop 
your creative expressive talents. 

STEP 19 

EXPRESS THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE 6 EXPRES¬ 
SION/9 SOUL URGE COMBINATION. 

The original paragraph remains unchanged. 

Your motivation sometimes seems to outrun your 
abilities. Although you have many ideas, your 
natural talents don't necessarily help to advance 
these ideas. Learn to be content with the realiza¬ 
tion that it will take more time than you would 
prefer to fulfill your inner desires. 

STEP 20 

REVIEW THE HARMONY OR DISCORD OF THE 6 LIFE 
PATH/9 SOUL URGE AND 6 EXPRESSION/9 SOUL URGE 
ASPECTS. 

There’s no description included here. 

STEP 21 

EXPRESS THE POSITIVE ATTITUDES OF THE 9 SOUL 
URGE. 

Delete the first original paragraph since it’s essentially repeat¬ 
ing a part of Step 13. 






CHAPTER 21: SYNTHESIS 


213 


Wh e n you are concerned about others, you arc 
very sympathet i c, generous and k i nd. At these 
t i mes, your sens i t i ve nature express e s much l ov e , 
compass i on and to l erance. There may be tim e s, 
though, when you prefer not to be i nvolved at al l . 

Include this original paragraph. 

You possess a deep, intuitive understanding of life, 
innate wisdom, good intuition and a broad point 
of view. 

Add this brief paragraph to describe the 11 Maturity Number 
(chart 10: the maturity number). As we mentioned in 
Chapter 16, there’s only a small chance that the energy related 
to this Maturity Number will be activated. 

At this time in your life, you may begin to be a- 
ware of the spiritual world and the relation of that 
world to the material world. 

Include this original paragraph. 

You are capable, at times, of expressing high ideals 
and an inspirational approach. You are capable of 
being self-sacrificing, but this trait is apt to con¬ 
flict with your love of freedom. 

Omit this paragraph. It’s a repetition of part of Steps 15 and 
16 - 

You can g i ve free l y w i thout b ei ng conc e rn e d ft- 
bout any r e turn, a l though your des i re to give may 
caus e conf li cts w i th your s el f - c en t e r e d n ee d s. 

STEP 22 

EXPRESS THE NEGATIVE ATTITUDES OF THE 9 SOUL 
URGE. 

The original paragraphs remain unchanged. 

You may be far too sensitive, extremely emotional 
with your emotions expressed very strongly. 

You probably suffer from the conflict between 
your high spiritual aims and your need for freedom 
and personal expansion. 

At times, you -probably resent the necessity of 
giving. At times, when your giving conflicts with 






214 


PART III: THE MODIFIERS 


your own needs, you may not give, but you'll be 
dissatisfied anyway. 

Sometimes you're disappointed in the lack of per¬ 
fection in yourself and others. 

Your tendency to be quite moody and critical at 
times is usually offset by your freedom-loving 
delight. 


We’ve now completely described all the core elements and 
the related modifier energies. We’ll add an additional step to 
describe modifier energies not related to the core elements. 

STEP 23 

DESCRIBE THE MISCELLANEOUS ENERGY. 

Under Miscellaneous Energy in the delineation outline, we have 
only the 7 Karmic Lesson. You may remember from Chapter 12, 
that the 7 Karmic Lesson is present for most individuals but, 
unless accompanied by other 7 energy, doesn’t need to be 
described. Therefore, in Hal’s case, the Karmic Lesson descrip¬ 
tion is omitted. 


We’ll add two additional steps to describe the directing 
modifiers. 

STEP 24 

DESCRIBE THE TEMPERAMENT. 

Hal has a strong Mental component, average Physical and Emo¬ 
tional components and a weak Intuitive component. 

The Temperament description is based on Chapter 19. 

You have a reasonably well-balanced tempera¬ 
ment (Strong Mental, average Physical and Emotional, 
weak Intuitive), so most of your energy is likely to 
be used. The only parts that are not likely to be 
developed would be those portions having to 
do with spiritual, psychic or metaphysical matters 
[weak Intuitive component), and those make up only 
a small part of your basic potential. I would not 



CHAPTER 21: SYNTHESIS 


215 


expect you to fully develop your understanding 
of life on a deep intuitive level (9 Soul Urge, weak 
Intuitive component), or to completely express an 
inspirational approach to your activities (9 Soul 
Urge, weak Intuitive component). In your mature 
years, there is the possibility of increasing your 
awareness of the spiritual world [11 Maturity Num¬ 
ber), but Td be surprised if you work on this very 
much ( weak Intuitive component). 

Td expect a good deal of emphasis on mental mat¬ 
ters—matters that deal with reason, logic and 
facts ( strong Mental component). I'd expect you to 
come up with a lot of original intellectual ideas 
(5 Life Path, strong Mental component), and these 
may be instrumental in demonstrating your leader¬ 
ship abilities [four l’s Intensity Point). You're likely 
to use your strong verbal abilities [five 3’s Intensity 
Point, 3 Prime Intensifier) to communicate your su¬ 
perior grasp of facts and reasons [strong Mental 
component), along with your feelings [average 
Emotional component). . 

.. ..r .> • 

Your ability to be helpful, to balance and harmon¬ 
ize situations (6 Expression) is probably expressed 
in a clear, reasoned way [strong Mental compo¬ 
nent). Your work with the old, young or sick (6 
Expression) may involve organizing along with po- 
litical or business activities [strong Mental component). 
You may show your humanitarian ways (9 Soul 
Urge) by expressing your sympathy and under¬ 
standing [average Emotional component), or by 
physically caring for others [average Physical 
component), but I suspect that you may stress an 
intellectual orientation [strong Mental component) 
— by writing and speaking for causes in which you 
believe, for instance ( five 3’s Intensity Point, 3 


Prime Intensifier). 
















216 


PART III: THE MODIFIERS 


You're good at taking care of the details (2 Karmic ! 
Lesson ) and you're likely to handle them in a rea- f 
sonable and logical manner ( strong Mental com- » 
ponent). I 

Your sensitivity (6 Expression, 2 Maturity Number) ? 
is likely to contribute to your ability to help others f 
because of your fine grasp of the facts of a situa- 
tion [strong Mental component). \ 

STEP 25 I 

ij 

DESCRIBE THE APPROACH TO EXPERIENCE. I 

j; 

The description is based on the First Letter H (chart 11: the jj 

first letter), and the First Vowel A (chart 12: the first 'j 

letter). \ 

The first paragraph lists traits which limit the experience. The I 
last three paragraphs list characteristics which enhance the | 

experience. I 

Those last paragraphs are important in concluding the delinea- ) 
tion on a strong positive note. \ 

You are likely to approach some of your life expe- | 

riences with vacillating thoughts [H) and an inabil- | 

ity to marshal your forces for maximum impact ( 

(A). This emphasis stresses your changeable nature | 

( 1415 Karmic Debt) and tends to limit your | 
experience. | 

l 

I'd expect, though, that you approach much of | 

s 

your experience with a more positive direction | 

[more A and H traits are positive rather than nega- 
tive). I'd expect that you approach a good deal of | 

experience as an executive or leader [ff), using | 
your good mind and creative mentality (A), tend- ) 
ing to promote quietly in a progressive manner (A), | 

with originality and innovation (A). ) 

Your approach is likely to often stress your self- | 
starting capability (A) and the high-level con- 
sciousness which allows you to meet situations I 

' S' 

with an extreme awareness of the material world -1 





CHAPTER 21: SYNTHESIS 

along with the possibility of achieving material 
success —money, power, status (H). 

In addition, your approach stresses your ability 
to work well with others (7/) using your keen per¬ 
ception of people and events {H) as well as your 
sensitivity and idealism (A). All these positive em¬ 
phases in your approach will tend to enhance your 
experience. 


For this delineation, sixteen of the eighteen modifiers in the 
delineation outline on pages 195-6 were added to the core 
elements. (The description of the 3,6,9 group was omitted as 
explained in Step 3, and the 7 Karmic Lesson was omitted as 
explained in Step 23.) Approximately half of the original steps 
in the core synthesis were revised, some significantly, and three 
additional steps were added. 


Do you remember the summary of the core synthesis in 
Chapter 7? 

Harlan William Allen, born May 12,1941, is an ac¬ 
tive, versatile, freedom-loving person with much 
excitement and adventure in his life, enhanced by 
his expression of the joy of living. He has the cap¬ 
ability of being responsible, loving and giving. He 
must learn to balance the somewhat self-centered 
exhilaration he finds in freedom with his inner 
need to give much to others in the way of friend¬ 
ship, love and affection. He has the potential for 
artistic or creative endeavor. 

A summary of the delineation with core and modifiers reads 
like this: (The additions to the original summary are under¬ 
lined.) 

Harlan William Allen, born May 12, 1941, has the 
potential to be an active, versatile freedom-loving 
person with much excitement and adventure in his 
life. He must first overcome his early tendencies to 
be erratic and overindulge in physical pleasures. 
He must also learn to profit from his mistakes and 


Use of 

modifiers, 

in 

Hal Allen’s 
delineation 


Core 

summary 


Core and 

modifier 

summary 







2IS 


PART III: THE MODIFIERS 


live comfortably with change. He can enhance 
his life by his expression of the joy of living. 

He has the capability of being responsible and 
he'll have more responsibility than may seem a 
fair share. He's loving, giving, tactful, diplomatic 
and sensitive, but he does tend, at times, to be 
controlling and dominating. He'll unlock his expe¬ 
riences when he gives for the pleasure of giving 
with no expectation of reward or return. 

Hal must learn to balance the somewhat self-cen¬ 
tered exhilaration he finds in freedom with his 
inner need to give much to others in the way of 
friendship, love and affection. He probably has 
superior talents in writing —a strong capability 
with words —and he has the potential for consid¬ 
erable artistic and creative endeavor. 

His basic viewpoint stresses a strong mental dispo¬ 
sition. When he's approaching experiences posi¬ 
tively, he emphasizes his leadership, creativity, 
awareness of the material world and ability to 
work well with others. 


Commentary Before proceeding to Part IV and advanced delineations in 
Volume 2, I think it would be advisable to concentrate on 
doing some readings as completely as we’ve done Hal 
Allen’s—perhaps your own, some members of your family or a 
few close friends. Read for people you know well, so you can 
appreciate the correlation between the delineation and real 
life. For these readings, first synthesize the core as we did in 
Chapter 7—then add the modifiers as we did here. 

I’ll be the first to admit that there are a lot of fine points and 
a lot of details to think about and clarify. When we get to the 
advanced delineations, we’ll learn how to arrive at a complete 
reading with a far easier flow than in this chapter. The easier 
flow, though, will, to a significant extent, be a product of an 
understanding of the individual modifiers and their relation to 
the completed delineation. If you take your time and build a 
. solid foundation here, the advanced readings will be easier to 
handle and the whole field of numerology will, I expect, prove 
remarkably accessible. 












THE 

REFERENCE 

CHARTS 



















THE REFERENCE CHARTS 


CHART 1: 

THE NUMBERS—BASICS 

See Chapter 2 

222 

CHART 2: 

THE LIFE PATH 

See Chapter 3 

236 

CHART 3: 

THE EXPRESSION 

See Chapter 4 

250 

CHART 4: 

THE SOUL URGE 

See Chapter 5 

264 

CHART 5: 

THE BIRTHDAY 

See Chapter 6 

278 

CHART 6: 

THE ASPECTS 

See Chapter 7 

292 

CHART 7: 

THE KARMIC DEBT 

306 


See Chapter 11 


CHART 8: 

THF, INTENSITY TABLE 

See Chapter 12 

312 

CHART 9: 

THE CHALLENGE/ 



THE GROWTH NUMBER 

See Chapters 14 and 15 

326 

CHART 10: 

THE MATURITY NUMBER 

See Chapter 16 

340 

CHART 11: 

THE FIRST LETTER 

See Chapter 20 

354 

CHART 12: 

THE FIRST VOWEL 

See Chapter 20 

368 








THE NUMBERS-THE BASICS 


223 


The brief descriptions of all the numbers are similar to the descriptions in 
CHAPTER 2. See pages 12-14 of that chapter for a discussion of the rela¬ 
tions among the numbers. 


ODD NUMBERS 

Concerned with the individual alone. 
Related to relatively abstract concepts. 
Involved with more idealistic endeavors. 


EVEN NUMBERS 

Concerned with the relation of the individual to the group. 
Related to relatively practical concepts. 

Involved with more mundane endeavors. 


I 

3 

| 

£ 

g; 






EVEN NUMBER 







THE NUMBERS-THE BASICS 


225 


1 


CHART 
NUMBERS—BASICS 


2 RELATION 

COOPERATION 


ODD NUMBER 

Ls 

1 

2 


EVEN NUMBER 

Independence is important but has its limitations. There are other peo¬ 
ple all about, and another lesson involves being a meaningful part of a 
group—a small group like family or friends, a larger group like a business 
or community. The person must learn adaptability, service, consideration 
for others, i.e, the meaning of a RELATION with others, the idea of 
COOPERATION. 


1 




S' 

I' 

I 

S' 


k 

5 ' 










REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 1 


CHART 


NUMBERS—BASICS 


EXPRESSION 
JOY OF LIVING 


ODD NUMBER 

A person must discover, both as an individual and as a group member, 
his capability of EXPRESSION: (1) artistic expression—writing, paint¬ 
ing, sculpting, singing or any of the many other means of expressing 
inner thoughts and emotions, and (2) expression of feelings toward 
others—friendship, affection, love. The JOY OF LIVING can be ex¬ 
pressed with optimism and enthusiasm. There can be a purity, even a 
naivete here. (This is, perhaps, the most enjoyable lesson of all the 
numbers.) 


EVEN NUMBER 







THE NUMBERS-THE BASICS 


CHART 


NUMBERS—BASICS 


LIMITATION 

ORDER 

SERVICE 


ODD NUMBER 


EVEN NUMBER 

Life doesn’t always present opportunities for singing and laughing. Life 
doesn’t always appear expansive or yours for the taking. Often, it feels just 
the opposite. The individual must learn the difficult law of LIMI¬ 
TATION. Everyone has limitations—limitations presented by the environ¬ 
ment, by the physical body, by the restrictions of the individual’s view¬ 
points. Rather than struggle against these limits, it is necessary to learn to 
live with them, to accept them and to make a meaningful existence, not 
in spite of the limitations, but because of the limitations. It is a difficult 
lesson. The individual embarking on this course must learn system and 
organization, ORDER on a practical level. He must be prepared to be of 
SERVICE to others. 






228 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 1 


CHART 


NUMBERS—BASICS 


ODD NUMBER 


CONSTRUCTIVE FREEDOM 


There is a time for expansion, for dealing with change, unexpected hap¬ 
penings, adventure. This lesson usually gives a person an abundance of 
talents in every direction, the capability of accomplishing almost anything 
for which an opportunity is presented—and many opportunities are 
presented. With the freedom that this abundance of talent and opportuni¬ 
ty brings, life can be exciting. But the lesson is more difficult: the indi¬ 
vidual must learn the CONSTRUCTIVE use of FREEDOM. The in¬ 
dividual must not waste his many talents or misuse his ongoing oppor¬ 
tunities; he must not get lost in solely physical desires—food, sex, alcohol, 
drugs. He must not scatter his potential and end up with frustration. He 
must make a meaningful existence by using freedom productively. 


EVEN NUMBER 








THE NUMBERS-THE BASICS 


CHART 


NUMBERS—BASICS 


BALANCE 

RESPONSIBILITY 

LOVE 


ODD NUMBER 


EVEN NUMBER 

A pferson must learn to give the beauty of love and harmony, sympathy 
and understanding, protection and BALANCE. Along with the balancing, 
the lesson of RESPONSIBILITY can be a meaningful one. The individual 
may find himself responsible for more than what rightly seems his share. 
Others will recognize his strength, and he may be expected to help them if 
they are in need and cannot help themselves. He will probably be the one 
who holds the family together, who harmonizes and adjusts difficult situa¬ 
tions. He may choose to limit himself to his family, his friends, possibly the 
close community. The friendship and LOVE the individual expresses to 
others will come back to him from those he helps. He can bask in the glory 
of a job well done and the quiet reward of friendship and love returned. 

The individual’s capability at harmony and balance may also be ex¬ 
pressed creatively—there is the possibility of artistic achievement. 





230 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 1 


CHART 


NUMBERS—BASICS 


ANALYSIS 

UNDERSTANDING 


ODD NUMBER 


There's a time for introspection, a time to subject all an individual 
knows to mental ANALYSIS, so that eventually a person possesses much of 
knowledge and UNDERSTANDING. Spiritual awareness is employed and 
emphasis on material matters avoided. Desire for material accumulation 
will probably lead the individual off the track, for this is a time for study 
and meditation, a time to know oneself—in the deepest way. 

There will be much time spent alone—the person must learn to be alone 
and not feel isolated. Often, the individual will appear “different to 
others. His way of thinking or doing may be very much his own and may 
seem inexplicable to his fellow man. He must accept that he is on a dif¬ 
ferent wavelength and find satisfaction in that. In a world where material¬ 
ism rates so highly, the road for the counselor, the professor, the pure 
researcher mav be a difficult one. 


EVEN NUMBER 







THE NUMBERS-THE BASICS 


231 


CHART 


NUMBERS—BASICS 


MATERIAL SATISFACTION 


ODD NUMBER 


EVEN NUMBER 

The individual must learn to deal with the material things of life, the 
practical matters. He will find himself at home in the business 
world—with much capability as an efficient administrator or executive. 
He will learn how to handle money—how to accumulate it, how to spend 
it wisely. The individual will work for MATERIAL SATISFACTION. 
This may mean emphasis on money to buy the best in houses, cars, fur¬ 
nishings, trips. (Perhaps, if he can reach the highest level of this lesson, he 
will see that material freedom can mean relying very little on money or 
material matters. Few ever gain this insight.) 

The individual will be very conscious of status in relation to material 
things and will work to satisfy his need for status to prove his superiority. 
He may appear single-minded, rigid or stubborn to others. Striving for 
power and high material goals may make him aware of the limitations of 
his ability or the restrictions of his circumstances. 










ODD NUMBER 

There’s a time to learn the satisfaction of giving to his fellow man. This 
is a difficult lesson. The satisfaction comes from the giving. There is little 
reward—the love and friendship are sometimes returned, the obligation 
often not repaid. The person must place all others before himself, must 
give for the sheer pleasure of giving, because he has learned the ultimate 
satisfaction of SELFLESSNESS and HUMANITARIANISM. The indi¬ 
vidual gives (1) by helping others or (2) by giving of himself in some form 
of creative expression. 


EVEN NUMBER 











THE NUMBERS-THE BASICS 233 


p 


ODD NUMBER 

The master numbers exist on a higher spiritual plane than the single 
digits. The first master number, the 11, must work to develop intuition, to 
tune into psychic forces not available to those with lower numbers. He 
must stand ready to be a channel with a message from above. In his life, he 
must inspire by his own example, living in the way revealed to him, 
spreading his ILLUMINATION for others to absorb and benefit. This 
number is as difficult as it is rewarding. 

Often, particularly at an early age, the individual is aware of his special 
powers, yet unable to synthesize them for his own use or for the good of his 
fellow man. He is often a relatively impractical idealist, far more a 
dreamer than a doer. There is an undercurrent of nervous tension always 
present from the high power sources to which the individual is attuned. He 
has to learn to live with his special powers, to set himself aside from the 
world of material accumulation in order to better understand the powerful 
forces which can reveal a higher guidance. 


11 ILLUMINATION 


1 


CHART 
NUMBERS—BASICS 


EVEN NUMBER 




234 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 1 


CHART 



NUMBERS—BASICS 



ODD NUMBER 


EVEN NUMBER 


The second master number, the 22, is potentially capable of combining 
the idealism of the first master number, the 11, with the ability to put these 
ideals into a concrete form. Enormous power is available to him to produce 
on a significant scale, for the benefit of humanity. When this potential can 
be realized, the individual becomes a MASTER BUILDER, capable of 
feats well beyond all others. 


Few with this number can marshal their forces to reach anywhere near 
the ultimate potential. The individual is aware of the forces within him, 
aware also of the nervous tension that accompanies these forces. He spends 
his time grappling with powers that are difficult to comprehend and use. 
Often, he is seen by his fellow men as a person with enormous potential 
who has not, for some unexplained reason, been able to fully use his 
capabilities. The highest potential is also the most difficult to reach. 



















236 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 2 













THE LIFE PATH 


237 


CENTRAL FOCUS 

The Life Path is the major lesson to be learned in this life—the defined 
path which will provide the maximum in growth and development. This is 
the most important part of the core of a reading. See Chapter 3, page 23. 


CHARACTERISTICS 

The outward manifestations of the Life Path. If the individual is express¬ 
ing positively (and most people are), these characteristics should be readily 
apparent. If any of the characteristics are not expressed or even visible in a 
latent way, there is probably some negativity present. 


NEGATIVE EXPRESSION 

The negative expression implies (1) the exaggeration of the lesson of the 
Life Path so that the extreme expressed is unproductive, or (2) the denial 
of the lesson of the Life Path in order to proceed in the opposite direction. 


COMMENTARY 

Elaboration of some of the subtleties involved on the Life Path. 






238 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 2 


CHART^ 

THE LIFE PATH 


1 INDIVIDUATION 
INDEPENDENCE 
ATTAINMENT 



CENTRAL FOCUS 

The subject must learn the benefits of indepen- the individual’s independent capabilities, once he i 

dence—a two-part learning process. First, the in- can accept and use his talents, there are likely to » 

dividual must learn to stand on his own two feet, be substantial meaningful opportunities. Attain- 

learn not to lean on or depend on others. After the ment of significant ends—material or otherwise— 

subject is indeed free of dependence, he can pro- can follow. 

ceed to be a leader or creator. Once others sense | 

p 

S 


CHARACTERISTICS I 

• Much inner strength. prised at others" resistance or the consequences | 

• Leadership capability. of following own convictions. ^ 

• Executive and administrative capability—al- • Self-centered. This may be extremely obvious, | 

ways obvious although sometimes latent in ap- or may be hidden by a social veneer. The 1 will | 

plication. be very aware of the self-centeredness even if i 

• Potential for accomplishment and financial it's not outwardly apparent. 

reward —again obvious, although sometimes • The material needs may be large or small—but 

latent in application. the 1 will spend the time necessary to satisfy ■■ 

• Strong personal needs and desires. Feels it these needs, 

necessary to follow own convictions. Often sur- 


NEGATIVE EXPRESSION 

A 1 still struggling with dependence may appear position with a rational argument. In giving a 

to be available at everyone's beck and call, with reading to a 1 on whom there is no information, it ;i 

few needs of his own. No matter how giving the 1 is probably useful to clarify the difference between 5 

appears, underneath the giving there will be much self-centeredness and independence. 

dissatisfaction with the dependent side. Often, Some l's, lacking a sense of balance, may be so ij 

though, the dissatisfaction may be well hidden. dominating and egotistical as to be their own jjj 

Some l's confuse independence and self-cen- worst enemies. Sometimes they burst with over- j. 

teredness. They may be concerned with their own confidence, making them impatient with others' j 

needs to the virtual exclusion of all else. This type advice, unable to listen and benefit from others' j 

of 1 may very well not know what is meant by self- opinions. \ 

centeredness or may even justify his self-centered f 

5 


g 

COMMENTARY j 

Some l’s spend most of their lives shaking off satisfaction throughout the life. There is much !j 

their dependent side. If this happens, they have potential for accomplishment, achievement, crea- S 

little time left to reap the reward of being indepen- tivity, and the potential is possible to reach (as Sj 

dent, l's, particularly in the first stages of their compared, for instance, to the difficult-to-attain ; 

life, often find themselves in situations where it is potential of the 11 or 22). The growing 1 can have 1 

easy to be dependent and difficult to be indepen- a continuing feeling of satisfaction in his progress - 

dent. It is up to each 1 to struggle through to the —and praise from others for his achievements, 

second part of the lesson, where attainment can be Often, he can receive good financial compen- ; 

achieved. • sation, can satisfy his material needs, can reach a : 

An aware 1 operating positively within the basic satisfying position of status. j 

channel can be growing and experiencing much ; 







THE LIFE PATH 


239 


CHART 

THE LIFE PATH 



RELATION 

COOPERATION 


CENTRAL FOCUS 

The subject must learn the satisfaction of con¬ 
tributing his capability as an organizer and 
facilitator in group situations. Here, although his 
contribution is seen, it will rarely receive full 
acknowledgement. He must learn that his use of 
quiet persuasion can accomplish as much as 
another's use of force. He must accept that his 
good ideas will often be better spread by others 
with more dynamism—that he can be the power 


behind the throne. If the subject can be comfor¬ 
table with others getting credit for his ideas— 
that's part of the lesson, too. 

The individual should develop his sensitivity 
and his skill at working with others to a high level. 
The world will be a better place because of his 
presence. He can glow quietly with the inner 
satisfaction of a job well done. 


CHARACTERISTICS 


• Sensitive to feelings of others. 

• Cooperative. Capable of working patiently and 
carefully, doing much detail work if necessary. 
Rarely dominates a situation. 

• Shows a great deal of consideration for others. 

• A good friend. Expresses and receives friend¬ 
ship and love. 

• Little concern with material needs or status. 

Usually can deny himself if others can thereby 
benefit. 

NEGATIVE EXPRESSION 


A 2 sometimes refuses to accept the role he is 
asked to play. He feels it's better to be an acknowl¬ 
edged leader than part of a group. His leading may 
be adequate, but is rarely dynamic. Sometimes, in 
a lead role, he will add confusion rather than har¬ 
mony to a situation. He'll never understand why it 

. 

happens that way, either. He's likely to blame 
others rather than himself. 

Sometimes the 2, because of too much sensitiv¬ 
ity, becomes shy and uncertain and contributes 
little as a group participant. He may protect his 
delicate ego by appearing apathetic or indifferent. 

COMMENTARY 


The key to growth and development for a 2 in¬ 
volves the control and balance of his sensitivity. He 
must find the path where he is not so sensitive that 
his feelings are constantly being hurt. His sensi¬ 
tivity to others must be so finely attuned that he 
can be a friend, lover or diplomat in the highest 
sense of these concepts. 

It is too easy for the 2, trying his wings, to 
retreat with pain from situations where others are 
insentitive to him. He must learn how to deal with 
others' insensitivities without being overwhelmed. 

A 2 operating in the right channel experiences a 
great deal of pleasure in life. He is the recipient of 
much love and affection from others. 








240 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 2 


3 EXPRESSION 
JOY OF LIVING 


CHART^ 

THE LIFE PATH 


CENTRAL FOCUS 

The subject must learn the joy of expressing 
himself. If he can be open, warm and full of 
delight, he is likely to be admired by others and 
desired as a pleasant companion. An easy lesson? 
In many ways the easiest and most delightful 
lesson: the experience of pure joy and the expres¬ 
sion of that joy for others to share. It is the begin¬ 
ning of an appreciation of the beauty that can be 
in the world. 

The individual should become aware of his spe- 


CHARACTERISTICS 

• Warm and friendly. 

• Very social. A welcome addition to any social 
situation. Knows how to make others feel at 
home. 

• Good conversationalist. A delight to listen to, 
and the ability to listen to others, too. 


cial talents. He probably has a good imagination \ 

and artistic abilities to be developed. He can excel 1 

in creative work—painting, sculpting, music, per- :■ 
haps. Most likely his creativity will be seen where 
verbal ability is important—in writing, acting or 
similar endeavors. He can express the beauty he £ 
experiences in his artistic work. His capability at 
creative self-expression is the highest level of at- i 
tainment in this lesson. j 

| 

------a 


• Talent with words—speaking, writing, singing s 

or acting as possible vocations or avocations. jj 

• Creative imagination, often latent. The 3 rec- g 

ognizes the possibilities but may not be moved jj 
to develop the creativity. jj 

ij 


NEGATIVE EXPRESSION 

A 3 may be so delighted with the joy of living 
that his life becomes frivolous and superficial. He 
may scatter his abilities and express little sense of 
purpose. 

When, on the other hand, he has difficulty 
developing his given capabilities, he may retreat 


COMMENTARY 


into himself. He may feel uncomfortable in social jj 
situations, may prefer to hide his feelings rather | 
than express them. He may appear moody or taei- jj 
turn. If he is hurt by others, he may be critical or 3 
demeaning. jj 

ll 

1 


i 

i 


When a 3 is operating within the basic path, his 
approach to life is likely to be exceedingly positive, 
his disposition sunny. He seems to deal with prob¬ 
lems with more ease than others. The 3’s open 
disposition accepts the existence of problems, yet 
deals with them without being dragged to the 
depths of despair. Even while working through 
difficulties, the 3 will usually express warmth and 
friendliness. When he expresses his problems op¬ 
enly, he can often deal with them seriously but 


without rancor. 3 

The 3 may mature later than others. His frivol- § 
ity or moodiness may be difficult to shake. The | 

frivolous 3 is often a delight, but is seen as a dilet- jj 

tante and treated as such. The moody 3 appears as jj 

an enigma because the cause of the moodiness is - 

often not clear. The 3 is on a special lighter track, ] 

quite different from the other numbers. He may be | 

able to get little help from others in learning to 
express his positive potential. jj 





THE LIFE PATH 


241 


CHART ( 


THE LIFE PATH 


LIMITATION 

ORDER 

SERVICE 


CENTRAL FOCUS 

The subject must learn the advantage of order 
and system in accomplishing his work. He must 
also learn the rewards of service. He’ll probably be 
involved in practical, down-to-earth work. Hav¬ 
ing determined where his duty lies, he must pro¬ 
ceed with the hard work at hand, patiently and 
dependably. 

The subject must learn to live with the law of 
limitation. He will be aware of limitations in his 


life—limitations of the environment, of his own 
physical body, of his individual viewpoint. Often, 
the subject may feel that circumstances limit him 
more than they limit others. He must learn how to 
live not in spite of the limitations, but in harmony 
with the limitations. He must learn to accept the 
restrictions rather than struggle with them. His life 
can then develop on a deep and beautiful path. 


CHARACTERISTICS 

• Practical. 

• Capable of systematizing and managing. Can 
produce order where little existed. 

• Willingness to work long and hard. Much pa¬ 
tience with detail. Very conscientious. Often 
seems to do better with difficult problems than 
with simpler work. Often seems to make the 
work harder by his peculiar approach but, nev¬ 
ertheless, is capable of completing the work. 


NEGATIVE EXPRESSION 

The negative 4 can be overwhelmed by his feel¬ 
ing of limitation. He will feel tied down and 
frustrated. Often the limitations stem from his 
own stubborn, obstinate manner and his rigid ap¬ 
proach, but he will be hard-pressed to see that he is 
causing his own problems. Sometimes, his concen¬ 
tration on details to the exclusion of the bigger pic¬ 
ture limits his potential. His frustration sometimes 


COMMENTARY 

This is a difficult lesson for many people. Few 
individuals want to learn to live with limitations. 
The usual reaction is to fight the restrictions rather 
than to accept them. 

All 4’s feel the sense of limitation. Only when 
they recognize the positive values inherent in 


• Serious approach. Honest and sincere. Respon¬ 
sible. 

• Strong likes and dislikes. Strong expression of 
what is right and wrong. 

• Fixity of approach. This can range from the 
positive expression of great courage to the 
negative expression of extreme stubbornness. 
Others see the 4 as somewhat rigid, but the 4 
can rarely see that quality in himself. 


expresses in bossiness and dominance. 

Occasionally, the 4 will express his dissatisfac¬ 
tion with his Life Path by going in the opposite 
direction. He will be disorganized and irrespon¬ 
sible, with little sense of time and virtually no ac¬ 
countability to others. The chaos he creates around 
him will further upset him, but he will not be able 
to see himself as the cause. 


limitation will their lives become growing and 
vital. The acceptance of limitation is the beginning 
of overcoming limitation as a negative part of the 
life. Limitation is also often in the eye of the 
beholder. What feels limiting to a 4 may not look 
limiting to an outside observer. 





242 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 2 


CHART | 


THE LIFE PATH 


CONSTRUCTIVE FREEDOM 


CENTRAL FOCUS 

The subject must learn the exhilaration of the 
constructive use of freedom. Life is full of exciting 
opportunities for this individual—there can be 
much variety, change, unusual happenings, un¬ 
usual people, unforeseen adventure. The 5 will 
find that he’s capable at almost any task, that he's 
talented in a number of directions. The world is 
his oyster—there are exciting things to do at every 
turn—and that, undoubtedly, is the difficulty. He 
must learn how to pick and choose; how to seek ex¬ 


periences which will be of benefit; how to discard 
those activities that aren’t working; how to profit 
from every experience. He must learn not to waste 
his time or scatter his forces, not to get lost in pure¬ 
ly physical delights—food, sex, drink, drugs. It 
can be sheer delight to be a rolling stone, but the 
frustration of moving from place to place, from 
person to person, from opportunity to opportunity 
may eventually overwhelm the delight. 


CHARACTERISTICS 

• Versatile and active. Can do almost anything. 
Can do many things with superior talent. Al¬ 
ways involved with something new, different 
or progressive. 

• Clever. An inborn ability to accomplish what 
he wants. Usually a quick thinker and a good 
ability to analyze. This ability isn't always used 
to further his best interests. 

• Restless and impatient. May have difficulty 
sticking to a task. May give up an experience 
because of a desire to try something new, not 
because of completion of the first experience. 

NEGATIVE EXPRESSION 

A 5 can occasionally be overwhelmed by his 
opportunities. He can flit from thing to thing with 
maddening speed; he can change direction at the 
drop of a hat; he can get lost in overindulgence 
with little sense of the negative effects. The 5 can 
be so erratic that people around him get frustrated 
trying to keep up. Usually, the 5 is frustrated with 
himself, too, but the excitement of each new 
adventure keeps him going. 


COMMENTARY 

Once on track, this can be a most delightful 
lesson. Getting on track is often difficult, usually 
takes up a good portion of the life. 5’s often enjoy 
freedom with little understanding of the construe 1 
tive use of freedom. With so much talent and ver¬ 
satility, with so many opportunities from which 
to choose, it’s difficult to be concerned about con¬ 


Occasionally, becomes quite erratic. 

• Loves change. Wants to travel, to see unusual 
places, unusual people, have exciting adven¬ 
tures. Usually has difficulty and is unhappy 
with routine tasks. 

• Delightful companion. Can inspire and delight 
with his enthusiasm (as long as others are not 
put off by the sudden changes in direction.) 

• Enthusiastic. Tackles each new experience with 
renewed enthusiasm. 

• The eternal youth. The excitement of life keeps 
him forever young. 


A very occasional 5 is hesitant about using his 
freedom. He will retreat into a safe (for him) type 
of situation—a nine to five job, a stable family 
unit. The changes and uncertainties that follow a 5 
will still be there, but he will not express the facil¬ 
ity to handle them. He will be frustrated with his 
safety, annoyed at the changes and uncertainty, 
but not willing to risk to learn about freedom. 


structive vs. nonconstructive. Sometimes, many 
years will pass before the 5 will look back, realize 
how little has been accomplished with such an 
advantage in opportunities and abilities. When the 
rolling stone changes to a more positive expression 
of change, uncertainty and opportunity, the 
growth of the individual can be a joy to behold. 




THE LIFE PATH 


243 


CHART 

THE LIFE PATH 

BALANCE 

fa RESPONSIBILITY 

LOVE 

• 


1 

i 

CENTRAL FOCUS 

The subject must learn the deep pleasure of return. The individual must always be there to 

handling responsibility. He is born with the innate help, sometimes even to his own disadvantage. He 

ability to give help and comfort whenever needed, may have to learn to distinguish between helping 

to support those too weak to support themselves. and interfering. r 

Others will quickly recognize these capabilities . The subject will usually seek the closeness of 

and come to the 6 for help. He’ll find himself marriage, although he may have to work at the 

responsible for far more than his fair share. He balance needed in marriage far more than he 

must accept the responsibility and learn to serve might expect. His ability to balance and harmo- 

family, relatives and friends. He must be willing to nize may express in creative activities—art, music, 

give out much in the way of friendship and love, writing—providing him with much pleasure, 

and will receive much friendship and love in 

i 

CHARACTERISTICS \ 

• Responsible. Always there to pick up the bur- Probably the person in the family to whom 

den. others come when things are not in balance. 

• Loving and appreciative. Always ready to help. • One of the focuses of the life is usually family, 

• Sympathetic and kind. Generous with all one’s relatives and friends. : : 

personal and material resources. • Rarely too concerned with material needs. 

• Usually loves children. Makes excellent teacher. • Artistic. - 

• Capable of rectifying and balancing situations. • Emotional. ;j 

j 

1 

t 

NEGATIVE EXPRESSION t 

There aren’t many riegative 6’s around. Some- (of himself and others), extremely critical and fussy S 

times a person accepts and is overwhelmed by re- at the same time. § 

sponsibility, and becomes a near-slave or doormat The rare 6 who abdicates responsibility will feel ■ 

for others. This negative 6 will feel unhappy but tense and uneasy, always realizing he is not accep- 

will usually feel that this is his role in life. ting the share that belongs to him. He may be ,i 

Occasionally, the individual confuses responsi- laden with guilt and have difficulty continuing 

bility for a situation with dominating a situation. satisfactory relations with others. 

Occasionally, too, the negative 6 is far too exacting ji 

jT 

N 

1 

COMMENTARY f 

The 6 usually accepts responsibility so readily out those who need him from those who don’t. | 

that advantage may be taken of him without his Part of the lesson of responsibility is clarifying | 

ever being aware of it. At some period in his life, when and where the sense of responsibility is to be & 

the 6 will probably get tired of the burden, may used. ■’ 

stop to clarify just how much responsibility he 6’s are very exacting of themselves. Often, 

chooses to assume. When he examines his life situa- they’re willing to sacrifice themselves (or their 

tion, he will find that many do come to him be- families) for the welfare of others. They may have f 

cause they are too weak to take care of themselves. to learn to temper their dreams of perfection. 

He will find others, though, who lean on him out Sometimes, they have to learn to express their own ) 

of force of habit—others who are capable of being individuality despite the heavy burden of responsi- 

responsible for themselves. He will do well to weed bility they carry. 











244 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 2 


7 ANALYSIS 

UNDERSTANDING 


CENTRAL FOCUS 

The subject must learn the peace of mind that 
comes with knowing himself. He has a good mind 
and a fine intuition. He must study and contem¬ 
plate, learn not to judge from appearances. The 
individual’s life should be devoted to analyzing the 
world about him, learning to trust his intuition, 
developing until he reaches the highest levels of 
wisdom. He must not emphasize material things in 


his life, but rather must become aware of the non- 
material forces. He must be able to spend time by 
himself without feeling isolated. The subject must 
learn to wait for opportunities which work to his 
advantage rather than actively seeking oppor¬ 
tunities. Amid the hurly-burly of the world, his 
development depends on his ability to retire into 
himself to find faith and peace. 


CHART^ 

THE LIFE PATH 


CHARACTERISTICS 

• "Different”. Operates on a different wavelength 
than others with access to unique solutions and 
approaches. He is often difficult for others to 
understand. Sometimes he has difficulty under¬ 
standing himself. 

• Difficult to get to know. Although he is often 
unaware of it, he often protects himself by giv¬ 
ing out little about himself. He may appear 
aloof and cold, sometimes even hard. This is a 
surface veneer, but it is difficult to penetrate. 

• Introspective. He is usually turned in on him¬ 


self, often appears reserved and thoughtful. 

• Depends on self primarily. Whether confident 
in his own abilities or not, he relies on himself. 
He seems afraid to trust others, doesn’t ask to be 
trusted by others. 

• Not too adaptable. He does things his own way, 
is not especially interested in other approaches. 
Since his view is often so different, it is difficult 
for him to see the advantages of others' ways of 
thinking and acting. 


NEGATIVE EXPRESSION 

The negative 7‘sotnetimes becomes so introspec¬ 
tive and self-centered as to be a virtual recluse. His 
lack of contact with others will make it difficult 
for him to grow and develop. 

An occasional negative 7, finding the path too 
difficult, will try to ignore his own character and 


live in the material world without tuning in to his 
inner resources. He will find that little works for 
him, that he is beset with problems on all sides. 
Only if he can move onto his track, will life begin 
to have some meaning for him. 


COMMENTARY 

If the 7 can get in touch with the satisfaction of 
working as a teacher, counselor, researcher, or at 
any other job which calls on intuition, mind and 
spiritual awareness without stressing material 
benefits, he can find much in the way of satisfac¬ 
tion. Too often, the 7 struggles against the very ex¬ 
periences which will make his life work. The 7 
may not like being by himself, he may want to en¬ 


joy good company and material pleasure. He must 
become aware of the excitements of the spiritual 
forces which can be used for his advantage. Once 
on track, his understandings and perceptions will 
provide ample, though “different", pleasures. The 
7 can then progress toward ultimate wisdom and 
faith—the products of his growth and develop¬ 
ment. 


1 


£ 


i 

i 

.j 


| 

j* 

| 

%■ 

I 











THE LIFE PATH 


245 


CHART ( 


THE LIFE PATH 


MATERIAL SATISFACTION 


CENTRAL FOCUS 

The subject must learn the satisfactions of the 
material world and the power which comes with 
its mastery. He will be involved in practical, 
down-to-earth work. There will be little of dreams 
or visions. The individual will want to use his am¬ 
bitions, his organizational ability, his efficient 
approach to carve a satisfying niche for himself. 
He will be concerned and involved with money. 


learning of the power that comes with its proper 
manipulation. He’ll be concerned with material 
things, desirous of obtaining the best and most 
comfortable for himself. He’ll be concerned with 
status—his own status measured against the status 
of others. With growth and development, the sub¬ 
ject will learn to achieve the power he desires. 


CHARACTERISTICS 

• Ambitious and self-confident. 

• Efficient and energetic. Capable of organizing 
and administrating. 

• Executive ability. Capable of taking charge and 
giving direction, even inspiring others. 

• Dependable. 

• Good at judging character. Aware of others 
and their relation to himself and his goals. 

• Realistic and practical. Doesn’t fool himself 


with daydreams or fantasies. 

Tendency to rigidity or stubbornness. Because 
he is often strongly goal-oriented and so aware 
of reality, it is sometimes difficult for the 8 to 
see that there are other approaches beside his 
own. If he is aware of his rigidity (and most 8’s 
are not), it will still take much work to over- 


NEGATIVE EXPRESSION 


The negative 8 may jSufsue his goals of money, 
status and power with such intensity and single- 
mindedness that, although he may achieve his 
ends, he will find little pleasure in the journey or 
the attainment. He may misuse power, become in¬ 
tolerant of others, be faced with much resentment 
and hostility. 


Sometimes, the negative 8, although desirous of 
money and achievement, will be afraid to take the 
risks involved in asserting himself. He will feel 
limited and dissatisfied, but will have to achieve a 
higher level of self-confidence before he can 
comfortably make his presence known. 


COMMENTARY 


It is very easy for the 8 to lose his way. He may 
have difficulty seeing the forest instead of the trees. 
He may be so immersed in his attainment of 
money, material possessions, status and power, 
that he may not see that these are not ends in 
themselves—only the means to the ends. The goal, 
quite simply, is the satisfaction that can come with 
material freedom and power. All too often, this 
lesson is lost or confused. 


If the material freedom, once achieved, does not 
provide pleasure, the 8 has not mastered the 
lesson. If the power, once achieved, is misused, the 
8 is off the track. The 8 must learn, not only to 
achieve his goals, but to maintain a sense of pro¬ 
portion about those goals. Only when he is able to 
do this, will he be in a position to grow and 
develop. 







246 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 2 


CHART l 


THE LIFE PATH 


SELFLESSNESS 

HUMANITARIANISM 


CENTRAL FOCUS 

The subject must learn the beauty of giving of 
himself for the deep satisfaction of giving—with¬ 
out thought of reward or return. A simple lesson in 
theory, a very difficult one in practice. The indi¬ 
vidual must practice selflessness, giving up ambi¬ 
tions and material possessions of his own for the 
common good. His innate love of his fellow man 
must be expressed with purity, from humanitarian 
interests alone. He must give love, help or under¬ 
standing when needed, again with no thought of 
receiving anything in return. The difficulty on this 


path is, of course, the lack of return. The subject’s 
pleasure comes in the giving. If he looks for more, 
if he has ulterior motives, tbe path will be difficult 
and there will be little reward or satisfaction. 

The subject may give to others as a fine spouse, 
lover or friend, as a teacher or helper. He may give 
to others in terms of creative endeavor. He may, as 
a matter of fact, have much in the way of crea¬ 
tive talent, but only in the purity of its expression 
will he find the way. 


CHARACTERISTICS 

• Much interest in others. Usually quite social. 
Sympathetic, tolerant and broadminded. 

• Idealistic. Sometimes tempered with a more 
practical side, but idealistic nonetheless. Often 
disappointed at lack of perfection in the world. 

• Romantic. Loves with depth and passion. Can 
be hurt by others whose response is not always 


as expected. 

Sensitive. Sees the world with much feeling and 
compassion. 

Creative ability. Often a great deal of imagina¬ 
tion to go with talent. Sometimes, has difficulty 
finding outlet for expression. 


NEGATIVE EXPRESSION 

The negative 9 isTairly common. He has diffi¬ 
culty believing that selflessness and lack of per¬ 
sonal ambition can be satisfying. He is often am¬ 
bitious, desirous of much in the way of material 
rewards. He’ll try to satisfy these needs, may even 
manage to attain some of the goals, but will find 
little of pleasure or satisfaction along the way. He 


may even end up embittered at the sorry results. 

Sometimes, the negative 9 may be aware of the 
satisfaction of the humanitarian impulse, but will 
spend his time in dreaming or in going off in all 
directions at once. He will accomplish little and be 
dissatisfied. 


COMMENTARY 

9’s can achieve as much as anybody in terms of 
status, recognition, receipt of love and friendship. 
But they receive the good things of life in a satisfy¬ 
ing way primarily as they express their own self¬ 
lessness and awareness of others. This can be a very 
difficult lesson. You have to head in what seems 
like the opposite direction to get where you’re go¬ 
ing. The 9 often rebels at the idea. It's difficult for 


him to conceive that he can be immensely satisfied 
as soon as he has given up the idea of needing per¬ 
sonal satisfaction. He can find all the love and 
friendship he wants as soon as he stops looking for 
love and friendship for himself and gives out love 
and friendship to others instead. This is a very 
deep lesson, but the rewards to those who can 
follow this path are beyond description. 










THE LIFE PATH 


247 


CHART) 


THE LIFE PATH 


11 


CENTRAL FOCUS 

The subject must learn an awareness of the 
spiritual world and the relation of that world to 
the material world. With this master number, he 
has added perceptions, added awarenesses, differ¬ 
ent capabilities of understanding. These percep¬ 
tions and capabilities take much effort to develop 
but, once developed, the individual is capable of 
far more ability and attainment than most others. 
The 11 must learn to trust and develop his own in¬ 


CHARACTERISTICS 

• Extremely capable at whatever work he choos¬ 
es. Capable of rising to the top of his profession. 

• Idealist. Has visions of a perfect world. Often 
makes himself unhappy with his need for per¬ 
fection. Often disappointed by his own and 
others’ imperfections. 

• Impractical. Although he will usually function 
well, there will also be an impractical side 
brought about by his occasional difficulty in 
separating his fantasy from the reality. This im- 
practicality may make it difficult for him to 
reach his goals. 


ILLUMINATION 


tuition to tune in to forces beyond. He would do 
well to involve himself with psychic or occult stu¬ 
dies. He must recognize himself as a channel for 
awareness and inspire others with his purity. The 
subject will, with development and growth, be¬ 
come aware of the special knowledge that has been 
given to him. It is important that he spread this 
illumination for others' benefit. 


Dreamer. Often more dreamer than doer. 
Sometimes can dream of the accomplishment, 
but can’t make it happen. 

Inspirational, although usually in a very quiet 
way. Others recognize some inner strength and 
awareness and can benefit from his lead. 
Nervous tension. The special awarenesses and 
capabilities are accompanied by tension. The 
tension is usually quite obvious, but is occasion¬ 
ally hidden beneath an applied veneer of 
strength. 


NEGATIVE EXPRESSION 

The negative 11 may use his special power for 
his own self-seeking ends. Although he may attain 
much, he will have missed the powerful lesson he 
should have learned. Despite his accomplishments. 


he will feel uneasy and dissatisfied. 

An occasional negative 11 gets lost in his 
dreams, accomplishes little, and rationalizes his 
predicament to try to find satisfaction. 


COMMENTARY 

11 is special. He is capable of great accomplish¬ 
ments, although he will rarely reach anywhere 
near his potential. He may not even understand 
anything of discussions of the spiritual world. He 
may, instead, be operating on an intuitive level, so 
that his relation with any but the material world is 
not particularly clear to him. 

ll’s special awarenesses are often difficult to 
handle. He can see the huge power potential that is 
present, but may be unable to focus the power to 
put it to practical use. The accompanying nervous 
tension can make him difficult to live with. He is 


so aware and sensitive that ordinary living may 
provoke all sorts of pressures which others never 
feel. 

It usually takes an 11 a long time to get on the 
track. While he is searching for direction, he will 
be, quite probably, a difficult person to deal with. 
It is hard to sit on the powder keg of such power 
and be comfortable, and the discomfort is ex¬ 
pressed by attacks of nerves or temper. 

The 11 who is growing and developing is rare, 
but a beautiful person to behold. He is a person 
who has much to give to others. 






248 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 2 


22 

CENTRAL FOCUS 


CHART^ 

THE LIFE PATH 


The subject must learn the ultimate mastery of 
combining the highest of ideals with the enormous 
power to achieve the largest of material goals. 
With this master number, he has added percep¬ 
tions, added awarenesses, different capabilities 
of understanding plus the ability to attain any¬ 
thing and everything in the way of material ac¬ 
complishment. Although these ultimate powers 
are there, the subject must learn (and it's the most 


CHARACTERISTICS 


• Extremely capable at whatever work he 
chooses. Capable of rising to the top of his pro¬ 
fession. Even when the 22 is not accomplishing 
as he should, the latent capability is most ob¬ 
vious. 

• Practical. An innate understanding of the forces 
involved in material problems. 

• Unorthodox. His significant perceptions will 
provide him with avenues not available to 
others or often even not understandable to 
others. He is operating on a different wave¬ 


MASTER BUILDER 


difficult of all the lessons) how to focus his large 
gifts into productive use. He must work for the 
benefit of mankind in order to achieve his own 
ultimate growth. He is capable of the largest of 
undertakings combining, perhaps, commercial or 
political forces of substantial magnitude. The 
potential is awesome—the individual’s growth and 
development depend on his ability to come to grips 
with his power. 


length than most of us—often his conduct is un¬ 
orthodox, quite possibly he will appear eccen¬ 
tric. 

• Charismatic. The glow of his inner fire will be 
visible to all. Even when he is not accomplish¬ 
ing all he should, others may well be drawn to 
the excitement of his activities. 

• Nervous tension. The special awarenesses and 
capabilities are usually accompanied by an al¬ 
most electric field of nervous tension. The ten¬ 
sion can rarely be hidden. 


NEGATIVE EXPRESSION 

The negative 22 may turn his powers to his own 
selfish use. He may accomplish his goals, but he 
will learn little of the ultimate lesson. He will 
be aware of not using his talents wisely, but may 
feel incapable of heading in a more meaningful 
direction. 


An occasional 22 is overwhelmed by his powers 
and retreats from them. He may accomplish little, 
feel frightened by the world around him, uncom¬ 
fortable with his nervous tension. 


COMMENTARY 

You will look for a long time before you find a 
22 accomplishing anything even vaguely close to 
his potential. Mostly, the 22 is in process, trying to 
handle the forces which feel too powerful to han¬ 
dle, trying to live with the tension which accom¬ 
panies these forces. The latent power of the 22 will 
be obvious to all. People may shake their heads 
and wonder why he didn’t do more with his potent 
energies. He will often be difficult to live with or 
deal with—he is so aware, so perceptive, so 


capable—and often so frustrated at not being able 
to put all the pieces together. 

If and when the 22 harnesses his potential (and 
it is usually somewhat along in his mature life), he 
can be beautiful to behold. The vision of an indi¬ 
vidual, aware, superbly capable, dedicated to the 
service of humanity, attaining on the very highest 
levels—a superb vision, an ultimate dream worth 
the striving. 


1 

E 


F 

r 


G 




l 

fi 

$ 


| 













250 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 3 


CHART 



THE EXPRESSION 






THE EXPRESSION 


251 


! 


'L 




ABILITIES 

The Expression is a person’s potential natural abilities. See Chapter 4, 
page 31. 

The natural capabilities and talents are significant in determining the 
type of work in which the subject will be most productive and content. If 
the subject is involved with work in which his productivity is poor and his 
satisfaction minimal, these innate abilities may be only occasionally or par¬ 
tially manifested. ; 

$ 

d 

1 

POSITIVE ATTITUDES f 

The individual’s attitudes when he puts his best foot forward will help 
him make progress along the Life Path. £ 

1 

$ 

... -• ..r- . > 

i4 


NEGATIVE ATTITUDES | 

The exaggeration or denial of the positive attitudes produces negative at- j 

titudes, deterrents to progress along the Life Path. Awareness of these 
negative attitudes may be the first step in converting them to a more pro- f 

ductive direction. | 

1 

1 

% 










252 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 3 


CHART< 


THE EXPRESSION 


INDIVIDUATION 

INDEPENDENCE 

ATTAINMENT 


ABILITIES 


Executive and administrative capabilities. Fine leader or pro¬ 
moter. 

Original and creative approach. (The creativity is not necessar¬ 
ily related to artistic endeavors; often, it’s related to business 
matters.) Others will usually be needed to follow through and 
take care of the details after the direction has been initiated. 
Good mind and the ability to use it for advancement. 
Potential for achievement and financial reward. Can establish 
and/or run own business or have significant position in 
another’s business. 


POSITIVE ATTITUDES 


• Prefers to proceed on own course. Usually prefers little input 
from others. 

• Ambitious, determined. 

• Positive, progressive. 

• Self-confident. 

• Self-reliant. 


• Much will power, courage of the convictions. 


NEGATIVE ATTITUDES 


• Egotistical. 

• Stubborn. 

• Dominant, bossy. 
•Too aggressive. 

• Selfish, self-centered. 

• Lazy, dependent. 






• Works well with others. Probably prefers partnerships to indi¬ 
vidual enterprises. (May have to learn that others may get 
credit for some of his ideas or accomplishments.) 

• Sensitive to others’ feelings. Diplomatic in handling compli¬ 
cated situations. 

• Skillful at organizing and handling groups. 

• Good facilitator. Contributes to group situations by use of per¬ 
suasion rather than force. 

• Capable of handling details well. 

• Psychic abilities (often latent). 


POSITIVE ATTITUDE 


• Considerate, courteous. 

• Cooperative. 

• Adaptable. 

• Modest. Can work comfortably without necessarily receiving 
full acknowledgement for contributions. 

• Tactful, diplomatic. Innate desire for harmony. 

• Friendly. 


NEGATIVE ATTITUDES 

• Over-sensitive. Too delicate ego is easily hurt. 

• Shy, uncertain. 

• Timid, fearful. 

• Apathetic, indifferent. 

• Lost in detail or careless with details. 





254 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 3 


CHART i 


THE EXPRESSION 


EXPRESSION 
JOY OF LIVING 


ABILITIES 


• Talent with words—writing, speaking, singing, acting, 
teaching are possible vocations or avocations. 

• Can sell or entertain—knows how to present material with 
imagination. 

• Artistic talents (often latent). 

• Creative imagination (often latent). 


POSITIVE ATTITUDES 

• Expresses joy of living with optimism and enthusiasm. 

• Friendly, affectionate, loving. 

• Gracious, charming. 

• Very social, good conversationalist. 

• Cheerful, happy, merry. 

• Loves a good time. 

• Capable of providing inspiration for others. 


NEGATIVE ATTITUDES 

• Dilettante, scatters forces. 

• Too easy going. 

• Trivial, superficial. 

• Critical, moody, too sensitive. 

• Gossipy. 



THE EXPRESSION 


255 


CHART 

THE EXPRESSION 
ABILITIES 

• Good organizer, manager. Can establish order and routine or 
maintain existing order or routine. 

• Practical, down-to-earth approach. 

• Strong capability to bring plans to a practical form. 

• Can work long and hard. Conscientious and dependable. 

• Patient with details, insists on accuracy. 

• Works well in material mediums: as builder, engineer, crafts¬ 
man, etc. 

• Capable of writing or teaching, often on technical matters. 


POSITIVE ATTITUDES 

• Responsible. Fulfills obligations. 

• Proceeds with job at hand despite seeming limitations or restric¬ 
tions. 

• Systematic, orderly. 

• Serious, sincere. 

• Honest, faithful. 

• Helpful. 

r • Patient, persevering, determined. 


NEGATIVE ATTITUDES | 

• Frustrated by feelings of limitation or restriction—often of own 
making or existing only in the imagination. 

• Rigid, stubborn, dogmatic, fixed approach. f 

• Strong likes and dislikes. | 

• Bossy, dominant. | 

• Excessively disciplinarian. | 

• May concentrate on details to the exclusion of the larger pic- | 

ture. t 


LIMITATION 

ORDER 

SERVICE 








256 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 3 



CHART*^ 

THE EXPRESSION 

} 

1 

5 CONSTRUCTIVE FREEDOM j 

i 

1 

ABILITIES 

• Tal 
atte 

• Got 
to g 

• Goc 
at p 

• Enj 

• Ent 

• Cle 

f 

ented and versatile. Capable of doing almost anything ; 

mpted, often extremely well. : 

)d at presenting ideas. Understands how to approach others ; 

;et what is wanted. | 

)d at selling. Innate ability to determine best way to succeed 
(articular sales situation. 

oys and is successful working with people. = 

ertaining and amusing. j 

ver, analytical ability, often a quick thinker. 


POSITIVE ATTITUDES | 

• Enthusiastic. 

• Adaptable. 3 

• Progressive. 

• Loves change, likes to travel, see unusual places and people, in¬ 
vestigate unusual ideas. 

• Delightful companion. i 

• i 

5 

■ _ . 3 

■ | 

■i 

! 

NEGATIVE ATTITUDES \ 

• Restless and impatient, may not stay with any project too long. 
Sometimes erratic. 

• Scatters self and energy. 

• Chafes at routine tasks or situations. Has difficulty with any¬ 
thing standard or rigid, such as regular office hours. 

• Reacts strongly if he feels freedom of speech or action is being ; 

impaired. 

• Often difficult to profit readily from experience. 

• Often difficult to discard easily. 

• May overindulge in eating, sensuality, drinking, drugs. 

• Sometimes misses big picture because of excitement generated 
by new interest. 





THE EXPRESSION 


257 


6 BALANCE 

RESPONSIBILITY 

LOVE 


ABILITIES 

• Responsible. 

• Helpful and conscientious. Capable of rectifying and balancing 
inharmonious situations. 

• Gives help and comfort to those in need. 

• Works well where care of old, young or sick is involved. 

• Shows concern for betterment of community. 

• Creative and artistic talents. 


POSITIVE ATTITUDES 

• Loving, friendly, appreciative of others. 

• Sympathetic, kind. 

• Generous, understanding. 

• Often involved in domestic activities, usually good spouse and 
parent. 

• Usually is open and honest with others. 


1 

NEGATIVE ATTITUDES ] 

• Too exacting of self. Occasionally will sacrifice self (or family) ) 

for the welfare of others. :: 

• Occasionally has difficulty distinguishing helping from inter- ;j 

fering. J 

• May express worry and anxiety. | 

• May have difficulty expressing own individuality because of in- \ 

volvement with responsibilities. May, unknowingly, become a f 

drudge. 


3 


CHART i 

\ 

THE EXPRESSION 




258 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 3 


CHART* 


THE EXPRESSION 


ANALYSIS 

UNDERSTANDING 


ABILITIES 


Good mind, good intuition. 

Capable of analyzing, judging, discriminating. 

Searches for wisdom or hidden truths. Often becomes authority 
on subjects that interest him—technical, scientific, religious or 
occult. 

Potential to be educator, philosopher, researcher. 

Spiritual awareness (often latent). May be involved in psychic 
explorations. 

Operates on “different” wavelength which may give unique 
approaches and solutions to problems. (It also may make it dif¬ 
ficult for others to know the person well.) 


POSITIVE ATTITUDES 

• Perfectionist. When carried to extremes, as it may well be, this 
tendency may interfere with work at hand. 

• Very logical, rational approach. Approach shows little emo¬ 
tion. Too much emotion, if noted in other numbers, may cause 
difficulties. 

• Willing to work to understand deep, difficult subjects, to search 
for hidden fundamentals. 

• Potential to be peaceful and poised. Usually achieved only at 
maturity. 


NEGATIVE ATTITUDES 

• Little trust in others. 

• Not very adaptable. 

• Usually introspective, tends to be self-centered. 

• Critical, unsympathetic, intolerant. 

• Usually prefers to work alone. Must learn to be by himself and 
not feel isolated—may rebel at the idea of learning this. 

• Difficulty with emotions—usually shows little of own emotions 
and may have difficulty understanding others’ emotions. 



THE EXPRESSION 


259 


CHART 
THE EXPRESSION 

ABILITIES 



8 MATERIAL SATISFACTION 


• Organizational, managerial and administrative capabilities. 

• Potential for achievement and financial reward. Can establish 
and/or run own business or have significant position in 
another’s business. 

• Efficient. 

• Good judgment with money. Understands how to accumulate, 
handle and spend money. 

• Good judgment of character. 

• Uses a realistic, practical approach. 

• Capable of handling large projects or interests. This capability 
may be latent or may be in the background because of charac¬ 
teristics of other numbers. 


POSITIVE ATTITUDES 

• Ambitious, usually in healthy way (unless overdone). Goal- 
oriented. 

• Energetic. 

• Self-confident. 

• Dependable. 

• Seeks material comfort. If overdone, this becomes a negative 
trait. 


NEGATIVE ATTITUDES 

• Rigid, stubborn. 

• Overambitious, impatient with progress. 

• Very exacting, both of self and others. Often intolerant. 

• May strain after money, status or power to own detriment. May 
misuse power. May strain for material freedom so that even ac¬ 
complishment of the freedom does not bring pleasure. 

• Materialistic, to exclusion of other values. 


F 

s 


3 


3 

| 

jr 

£ 

I 

■j 

<1 

% 







260 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 3 



ABILITIES 

• Humanistic interest and approach. 

• Philanthropic, likes to help others. 

• Sensitive to others’ needs, much feeling and compassion. 

• Works well with people. 

• Potential for inspiring others—may be teacher, religious leader, 
counselor. 

• Creative ability, imagination and artistic talent of the highest 
order (often latent). 


POSITIVE ATTITUDES 

• Much human understanding. 

• Gives a lot to others, extreme of selflessness occasionally 
achieved. 

• Personal ambition is usually in positive perspective. 

• Interest in others—sympathetic, tolerant, broad-minded, 
compassionate, generous. 

• Idealistic, disappointed at lack of perfection in the world. 

• Romantic. Gives much friendship, affection, love. Can 
sometimes (in its highest expression) be content with minimal 
return. 

• Aware of own feelings as well as others. 


NEGATIVE ATTITUDES 

• Selfish, self-centered. 

• Unaware of real feelings. 

• Insensitive to others’ needs and feelings. 

• Wants much friendship, affection, love. Sometimes has difficult 
(often aloof) attitude which makes it difficult for others to re¬ 
spond. 

• Lack of involvement. 




THE EXPRESSION 


261 


CHART < 


THE EXPRESSION 


11 


ILLUMINATION 


ABILITIES 


Inspirational, often inspires by his own example. Others usually 
can see his inner strength and awareness. Would be good spir¬ 
itual adviser, philosopher, teacher, welfare worker. 

Very aware and sensitive with good intuition. Tie to spiritual 
world gives added depth to point of view. 

Often operating on psychic levels—may do well in psychic, 
mystic or occult studies. 

Good mind and analytical ability. 

Very capable at whatever work is chosen, but often has diffi¬ 
culty focusing ability to achieve ends. 

Usually works better outside the business world. If in the 
business world, his approach is often unusual. 


POSITIVE ATTITUDES 


• Idealistic approach. Often disappointed by own and others’ 
imperfections. (Expresses ideals, even though they may prove 
impractical.) 

• Deeply concerned with art, music, beauty. 


NEGATIVE ATTITUDES i 

• Nervous tension almost always present. 

• Often more dreamer than doer. Sometimes quite aimless. 

• Too sensitive. | 

• Temperamental, temper. j| 

• Impractical, sometimes has difficulty separating fantasy from | 

reality. | 

• May impose ideas or standards on others in unfeeling way. | 

• Self-centered, inconsiderate. | 

• Wants to spread his illumination to others irrespective of others’ if 

desire or need. I 








262 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 3 


CHART* 


THE EXPRESSION 


22 


MASTER BUILDER 


ABILITIES 


Extremely capable at whatever work is chosen. 

Capable of handling large scale undertakings. May accomplish 
significant undertakings in the material world. 

Capable of leading in new directions. 

Unorthodox approach to problems. 

Much unusual perception and awareness. 


POSITIVE ATTITUDES 

• Practical approach tempered by awareness of non-material 
forces. 

• Idealistic. 

• Inner strength visible to all. If developed, will attract others 
with charisma. 

• May work for the good of all. 


NEGATIVE ATTITUDES 


• Nervous tension brought on by high level awareness. 

• May accentuate unorthodoxy to the point of eccentricity. 

• Selfish and dominating. Uses power for own good rather than 
universal benefit. 

• Inability to harness power may cause feelings of inferiority. 






















THE SOUL URGE 


265 


MOTIVES 

The Soul Urge is a person’s inner motivation, what he really wants out of 
life. See Chapter 5, page 37. 

His inner nature is usually revealed to others, but sometimes it is hidden 
within. 


POSITIVE ATTITUDES 

The feelings and inclinations which will be most helpful in making 
progress. 


NEGATIVE ATTITUDES 

The exaggeration or denial of the positive feelings and inclinations pro¬ 
duces negative effects which act as deterrents to progress. 





266 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 4 


CHART 


THE SOUL URGE 


INDIVIDUATION 

INDEPENDENCE 

ATTAINMENT 


MOTIVES 


The subject would like to be as independent as possible, ideally com¬ 
pletely free to act on his own. He wants to be the leader or organizer, free 
to initiate or pioneer in any venture that strikes his fancy. He prefers to 
take a strong individualistic stand, dominating any situation in which he’s 
involved. He wants to be a success in large, progressive enterprises. He’s 
concerned primarily with the broad strokes, prefers to leave the details to 
others. He keeps his own counsel, works with a few hand-picked em¬ 
ployees. 


POSITIVE ATTITUDES 


• Ambitious, determined. 

• Honest, loyal. 

• Instigates action. 

• Seeks opportunities to use his abilities. 



| 


NEGATIVE ATTITUDES 


• Egotistical. 

• Impatient, disapproving. 

• Dominant, bossy. 

• Headstrong, impulsive. 

• Conceited. 


t 






THE SOUL URGE 


267 


CHART 



THE SOUL URGE 


MOTIVES 


2 RELATION 

COOPERATION 


| 


The subject would like friendship, affection, love, companionship. He | 

usually prefers marriage to being single. He wants to work with others as S 

part of a cooperative team, only rarely wants to lead. He will work hard to 5 

achieve a harmonious environment with sensitive, genial people. j 


POSITIVE ATTITUDES 

• Sympathetic, concerned, devoted. 

• Sensitive, diplomatic, tactful. Emotional. 

• Quietly persuasive rather than forceful. 

• Friendly. 

• Gives love and affection. 


• »r ; . > 


NEGATIVE ATTITUDES 

• Over-sensitive. Too delicate ego is easily hurt. May be timid or 
fearful. 

• Not given to disciplining himself or others. 

• Too easy going—may become a doormat. 








268 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 4 


CHART 


THE SOUL URGE 


EXPRESSION 
JOY OF LIVING 


MOTIVES 


The subject would like to express his delight in life, his sense of joie de 
vivre. He wants to participate in an active social life with many close 
friends and diverse activities. He would like to express his artistic talents, 
particularly his talent with words: speaking, writing, acting, singing. He 
wants his home and work environment to reflect the beauty he enjoys 
creating. 


POSITIVE ATTITUDES 

• Friendly, outgoing, social. 

• Rarely discouraged. 

• Good mental/emotional balance. 

• Intuitive. Often inspirational. 

• Capable of self-expression, either in social situations or in artis¬ 
tic fields. 


NEGATIVE ATTITUDES 

• Tendency to scatter forces. 

• Too easygoing and optimistic. 

• Too sensitive when criticized. 

• Compulsive talker, may be critical. 





THE SOUL URGE 


269 



MOTIVES 

The subject would like to lead a stable life. He prefers orderliness and a 
systematic approach in his endeavors. He wants to serve others methodi¬ 
cally and diligently. He wants to be involved in solid, conventional, well- 
regulated activities. He’s likely to be disturbed by innovation and erratic 
or sudden changes. 


POSITIVE ATTITUDES 


• Good at organizing, systematizing, managing. Good at estab¬ 
lishing routine and order. Logical, thorough, exacting with 
details. 

• Responsible, reliable. 

• Honest, sincere, conscientious. Hates pretension. 

• Practical and analytical. 


• Self-disciplined, determined, tenacious. 


NEGATIVE ATTITUDES 


• Rigid, stubborn, narrow-minded. 

• Hides feelings. Often, is not aware of real feelings. 

• Bossy, dominant. 

• May neglect large affairs because of blind involvement in 
details. 

• Afraid to take chances. 









270 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 4 


5 CONSTRUCTIVE FREEDOM 


MOTIVES 

The subject would like a life of freedom, excitement, unexpected hap¬ 
penings, unusual adventures, travel. He doesn’t want to be governed by 
standard values or traditions. He wants to be the one to set the pace. 


POSITIVE ATTITUDES 

• Very adaptable and versatile. 

• Natural resourcefulness, enthusiasm. 

• Capable of bringing new excitement into his interests. 

• Progressive approach, strong feelings. 

• Good mind and imagination. 


NEGATIVE ATTITUDES 

• Restless and impatient. Dislikes routine and detail work. 

• Jumps from interest to interest, activity to activity. 

• Discards quickly to go on to the new. Rarely holds to anything. 

• May have difficulty with responsibility. 






THE SOUL URGE 


271 


CHART 


THE SOUL URGE 


BALANCE 

RESPONSIBILITY 

LOVE 


MOTIVES 

The subject would like to be appreciated for his ability to handle respon¬ 
sibility. His home and family are likely to be a strong focus in his life, one 
of the areas where he gives and receives friendship, love, affection. He 
wants to rectify and balance situations in which he is involved, to help and 
serve others. The subject prefers to work with others rather than by 
himelf. He is concerned with beauty in his surroundings and often ex¬ 
presses himself in creative or artistic activities. 


POSITIVE ATTITUDES 

• Responsible. 

• Openminded, sympathetic, understanding, generous. 

• Gives much friendship, affection, love. Expresses deep emo¬ 
tional life. 

• Idealistic. 

• Natural ability to serve, help and teach—capable of sacrifice if 
necessary. 

• Artistic and creative expression. 


NEGATIVE ATTITUDES 

• Too emotional. 

• Interfering or too protective rather than helpful. 

• Often represses own needs in order to serve others—may 
become resentful. 


272 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 4 



The subject would like much time alone, much quiet and retirement 
from the outer world in order to develop his inner resources. He likes to 
dream and develop his idealistic understandings, to study and analyze to 
gain knowledge and wisdom, to learn the deeper truths. He prefers con¬ 
templation to activity arid adventure. He prefers avoiding the business 
world. 


POSITIVE ATTITUDES 

• Good mind. Analytical approach. 

• Studious, theoretical approach. 

• Technical, scientific, religious or occult interests. 

• Reserved. 

• Seeks perfection. 


NEGATIVE ATTITUDES 

• Timid and withdrawn, innately shy, difficulty with casual con¬ 
versation. 

• Lives in dreams and fantasies. 

• Difficult for others to understand. Others have difficulty show¬ 
ing affection. 

• Represses most emotions although the emotions are often very 
strong. 

• Secretive, selective. 

• Not too adaptable. 





THE SOUL URGE 


273 


CHART 



THE SOUL URGE 



MATERIAL SATISFACTION 


MOTIVES 

The subject wants wealth, success, status and power. He wants to excel 
in the business or political world, to organize, supervise or lead. He prob¬ 
ably has substantial material needs to satisfy. 


POSITIVE ATTITUDES 

• Executive abilities, proceeds in businesslike manner. 

• Confidence, energy and ambition. 

• Analytical mind. 

• Possesses good judgment. Has good sense of material values and 
is good judge of character. 

• Capable of the imagination required for commercial success. 

• Functions well in emergencies. Inspired by crises or large odds. 

• Self-controlled. Emotions rarely cloud judgments. 


NEGATIVE ATTITUDES 

• Dominating. Too exacting. 

• Thinking, straining, striving for material values, financial suc¬ 
cess—sometimes to exclusion of all else. 

• Tendency to be very self-centered. 

• Tendency to rigidity, stubbornness. 

• Represses feelings. 


I 


? 


fj 

4 


n 

* 





274 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 4 



MOTIVES 

The subject would like to give to others, usually in a humanitarian or 
philanthropic manner. Sometimes, he wants to give friendship, affection 
and love; sometimes, he gives of his knowledge and experience. He also 
would like to share his artistic or creative talents with others. These are 
often talents of considerable magnitude. 


POSITIVE ATTITUDES 

• Sympathetic, generous, kind. 

• Sensitive nature. Expresses love, compassion, tolerance. 

• Possesses deep, intuitive understanding of life. 

• Possesses innate wisdom, good intuition, broad point of view. 

• Often high ideals and an inspirational approach. 

• Often self-sacrificing. 

• Gives freely without being concerned about any return or 
reward. 


NEGATIVE ATTITUDES 

• May be too sensitive; very emotional with emotions being ex¬ 
pressed strongly. 

• Conflict between higher spiritual aims and personal ambitions 
may cause difficulties. 

• May resent necessity of giving so much of the time. 

• May be disappointed in lack of perfection in himself and others. 

• Moody, critical. 




MOTIVES 

The subject would like to manifest his view on spiritual matters, to share 
his ideas of idealism, beauty and perfection. He wants to give of himself to 
humanity. He is often more concerned with the abstraction of giving to the 
world rather than specifically giving to individuals. 


POSITIVE ATTITUDES 

• Utopian dreamer. 

• Idealistic, intuitive and inspirational. 

• Religious and spiritual, possibly psychic ability. 

• Much inner strength and devotion to a chosen cause, sticks to 
his ideals. 

• Good mind. 


NEGATIVE ATTITUDES 

• Nervous tension brought on by high level awareness. 

• Too sensitive. May be very emotional or may repress feelings 
altogether. In either case, the sensitivity is poorly handled. 

• Strong ideas of right and wrong, often inflexible. 

• Day dreams and deceives self. Impractical approach. (Often 
can’t see these qualities in himself.) 

• Often extremely selective in associations. Others may be 
bothered by his air of exclusivity. 











276 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 4 



MOTIVES 


The subject would like to use his abilities in an important humanitarian 
undertaking. He wants to express the significant power he feels in a con¬ 
crete manner, as a builder, engineer, diplomat, etc. In some way, he wants 
to make a considerable contribution to the world. 


POSITIVE ATTITUDES 

• Universal outlook with a practical approach. 

• High intelligence. 

• Unusual perceptions and awarenesses. 

• Diplomatic ability. 

• High ideals. 

• Strong capability and leadership ability. 

• Commands respect with his superior vision. 


NEGATIVE ATTITUDES 

• Nervous tension brought on by high level awareness. 

• Too dominating. 












278 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 


CHART 


THE BIRTHDAY 











The Birthday is a sub-lesson to be learned in this life, a sub-focus on the 
Life Path. See Chapter 6, page 41. 

In numerology terms, the Birthday, the day of the month on which the 
individual is born, is reduced to a single digit or master number. The sub¬ 
lesson of the single digit or master number is described by the related 
keywords. 

The main emphasis of the attitudes and abilities for each Birthday is 
described by this single digit or master number. The master number 11 has 
attitudes and abilities related to its high level 11 and its reduced level 2. 
The master number 22 has attitudes and abilities related to its high level 22 
and its reduced level 4. See Chapter 8 for a discussion of master numbers. 

If the birthday falls on the 13th, 14th, 16th or 19th of the month, an ad¬ 
ditional main emphasis is added due to karmic influences. See Chapter 
11 for a discussion of these influences. 

The numbers behind the single digit—the 17 behind the 8, the 23 
behind the 5, for instance—add minor emphases to the attitudes and 
abilities. 






2S0 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 5 


CHART K 



THE BIRTHDAY _ 

Independent attitude. 

1 Executive ability, good leader. 
Ambitious, positive, progressive. 
Self-confident. 

Much will power. 

Potential for achievement and financial 
reward. 

Good mind. 


Independent attitude. 


1 INDIVIDUATION 
INDEPENDENCE 
ATTAINMENT 

Practical, rational. 

Often original approach. 

Sensitive, rarely shows feelings. 

Better at starting than continuing. 

Better at broad strokes than details. 

(Emphasis on 1 energy only. No sub¬ 
emphasis on other energies.) 


Practical, rational. 


10 


Much energy. 


Creative ideas, strongly marked originality. 


Executive ability, excellent leader. 


Sensitive, feelings usually repressed. 


Ambitious, positive, progressive. 
Self-confident. 

Much will-power. 

Strong potential for achievement and 
financial reward. 

Compelling manner, can dominate a situa¬ 
tion. 

Excellent mind. 


Better at starting than continuing. 

Better at broad strokes than details. 

(Emphasis on I energy only is similar 
to the 1 Birthday above, but the 
energy is more strongly expressed 
here. No sub-emphasis on other 
energies.) 


Independence strongly desired, usually Practical, rational. 


19 obstacles to ^overcome before dependence is Often original or unconventional approach. 


overcome. 

Executive ability. 

Ambitious. 

Much will power. 

Creative, imaginative. 

Tendency to be self-centered, inability to see 
self in relation to others. 

Good mind. 


Independent attitude, but can work well 
28 with others. 

Executive ability, good leader. 

Organizing, managing, administrative 
capabilities. 

Ambitious. 

Diplomatic, uses persuasion rather than 
force. 

Creative, imaginative. 

Potential for achievement and financial 
reward. 


Strong sensitivity may involve individual in 
dramatic situations. 

Feelings usually repressed. 

Better at starting than continuing. 

Better at broad strokes than details. 

(Emphasis on 1 and 19/1 energy 
Sub-emphasis on 9 energy.) 


Good mind. 

Practical, rational. 

Often original approach. 

Sensitive, represses a good deal of feelings. 
Affectionate. 

Good at starting, capable of continuing. 

Good at broad strokes, capable of taking care 
of details. 

(Emphasis on 1 energy. Sub-em¬ 
phasis on 2 and 8 energy.) 




THE BIRTHDAY 


281 


CHART I 


THE BIRTHDAY 


RELATION 

COOPERATION 


Works well with others. 

Prefers partnerships to individual enterprises. 
Sociable, friendly. 

Diplomatic, uses persuasion rather than 
force. 

Considerate, courteous, modest. 

Cooperative, adaptable. 

Much sensitivity to others’ feelings, much 
feeling expressed. 


Occasional moods of depression. 

Affectionate. 

Better at continuing than starting. 

Good with details. 

(Emphasis on 2 energy only. No sub¬ 
emphasis on other energies.) 



s a master number. For this Birthday, see 
description on the 11 page of this chart. 


Works very well with others. 

Prefers partnerships to'individual enterprises. 

Very sociable, friendly. 

Much attention to family, close friends. 
Diplomatic, uses persuasion rather than 
force. 

Considerate, courteous, modest. 

Cooperative, adaptable. 

Extreme sensitivity to others’ feelings, much 
feeling expressed. 


Some moods of depression. 

Very affectionate. 

Better at continuing than starting. 

Good with details. 

(Emphasis on 2 energy only is similar 
to the 2 Birthday above, but energy 
is more strongly expressed here. No 
sub-emphasis on other energies.) 


29 reduces to the master number 11. For this 
Birthday, see the description on the 11 page 
of this chart. 






282 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 5 


CHARTg 
THE BIRTHDAY 


3 EXPRESSION 
JOY OF LIVING 


Good with words—writing, speaking, sing- 

3 in S- 

Can sell or entertain. 

Artistic, creative, good imagination. 

Expresses joy of living. 

Enthusiastic, optimistic, cheerful. 

Friendly, sociable. 

Good conversationalist. 

Energetic. 


Affectionate, loving. 

Much feeling may cause occasional rapid ups 
and downs. 

Scatters energy. 

Involved with trivial or superficial matters. 
Many interests, but may be bored easily. 

(Emphasis on 3 energy only. No sub¬ 
emphasis on other energies.) 


i 


! 


Ii 

i 


Good with words—writing, speaking, sing- 

12 in 8’ 

Works well alone or with others. 

Original approach. 

Artistic, creative, good imagination. 

Expresses joy of living. 

Enthusiastic, optimistic, cheerful. 

Friendly, sociable. 

Good conversationalist. 

Energetic. 

Good mind. 

Practical, rational. 


Good with words—writing, speaking, sing- 
21 in g- 

Works well alone or with others. 

Often uses original approach. 

Artistic, creative, good imagination. 

Expresses joy of living. 

Enthusiastic, optimistic, cheerful. 

Friendly, sociable: 

Good conversationalist. 

Energetic. 

Good mind. 

Practical, rational. 


Talent with words—writing, speaking, sing- 

30 ing- 

Can sell or entertain. 

Very artistic, very creative, fine imagination. 
Expresses joy of living. 

Enthusiastic, optimistic, cheerful. 

Very friendly and sociable. 

Excellent conversationalist. 

Very energetic. 

Very affectionate and loving. 


Very affectionate and loving. Very sensitive. 
Much feeling may cause occasional rapid ups 
and downs. 

May repress feelings in business. 

Sometimes scatters energy. 

Sometimes involved with trivial or superficial 
matters. 

Many interests. 

Good at broad strokes or with details. 

(Emphasis on 3 energy. Sub-empha¬ 
sis on 1 and 2 energy.) 


Very affectionate and loving. Very sensitive. ;! 

Much feeling may cause occasional rapid ups | 

and downs. !» 

May repress feelings in business. ;j 

Sometimes scatters energy. ■! 

Sometimes involved with trivial or superficial s 

matters. ? 

Many interests. J 

Good at broad strokes or with details. % 

£ 

(Emphasis on 3 energy. Sub-empha- | 

sis on 2 and 1 energy.) j 


Strong feeling may cause upsets. i 

Scatters energy. j. 

Involved with trivial or superficial matters. 1 

Many interests, but may be bored easily. ? 

May not take care of work or responsibility. ; 

(Emphasis on 3 energy only is similar ; 
to the 3 Birthday above, but the en¬ 
ergy is more strongly expressed here. > 
No sub-emphasis on other energies.) 



THE BIRTHDAY 


283 


CHARTgJ 
THE BIRTHDAY 


4 LIMITATION 
ORDER 
SERVICE 


Good organizer, manager. 

4 Works long and hard, conscientious, de¬ 
pendable. 

Responsible, self-disciplined. 

Serious, sincere, honest. 

Patient, persevering, determined. 
Proceeds despite seeming limitations. 

Very practical, rational. 

Some rigidity or stubbornness. 


Feeling generally repressed. 

Shows little affection. Has difficulty attract¬ 
ing affection. 

Patient with details, insists on accuracy. 

May concentrate on details and miss the big 
picture. 

(Emphasis on 4 energy only. No sub 
emphasis on other energies.) 


i 


'.i 


13 



31 


Good organizer, manager, but may dominate 
and irritate others. 

Executive ability. 

Works long, hard, energetically, dependably. 
Responsible, self-disciplined, enthusiastic. 
Serious, sincere, persevering. 

Feels limited or restricted a good deal of the 
time, causing frustration or depression. 
Good mind. 

Very practical. 


22 is a master number. For this Eirthday, see 
the description op the 22 page of this chart. 


Good organizer, manager. 

Works hard, energetic, dependable, en¬ 
thusiastic. 

Good in the business world. 

Good conversationalist. 

Responsible, helpful. 

Serious, sincere. 

Patient, persevering, determined. 

Good mind. 


Tends to be very rigid, obstinate, dogmatic. 
Others may see him as unreasonable. 

Feelings usually repressed. 

Shows some affection. Has difficulty attract¬ 
ing affection. 

Insists on accuracy. 

Concentrates on details, often misses the big 
picture. 

(Emphasis on 4 and 13/4 energy. 
Sub-emphasis on 1 and 3 energy.) 


Very practical, rational, but some im¬ 
agination shown. 

Often original approach. 

Some rigidity or stubbornness. 

Sensitive, but feelings usually repressed. 

Good with details, insists on accuracy. 
Sometimes scatters energy. 

(Emphasis on 4 energy. Sub-empha¬ 
sis on 3 and I energy.) 


jj 

| 


s 

i! 


j 


<2 

it 





284 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 5 


CHART 

THE BIRTHDAY 


5 CONSTRUCTIVE 
FREEDOM 


Enjoys and works well with others. 

Talented and versatile, good at presenting 
ideas. 

Likes new experience, change, travel. 
Entertaining, amusing, enthusiastic, pro¬ 
gressive. 

Adaptable. 


Sociable, delightful companion. 

Imaginative. 

Quick mind, clever, analytical. 

Restless, impatient, chafes at routine. 

May shirk responsibility. 

(Emphasis on 5 energy only. No sub¬ 
emphasis on other energies.) 


14 


Enjoys working with others. 

Talented and versatile, can organize and sys¬ 
tematize. 

Capable of hard work at times, usually not 
consistently. 

Desires new experience, change, travel, often 
with little sense of proportion. 

May overindulge in eating, sensuality, liquor, 
drugs. 

Entertaining, amusing, enthusiastic, progres¬ 
sive. 


Usually adaptable. 

Sociable. 

Quick mind, clever, analytical. 

Practical. 

Often original approach. 

Restless, impatient, somewhat erratic—tends 
to jump from activity to activity with little 
sense of accomplishment or accountability. 
Often shirks responsibility. 

(Emphasis on 5 and 14/5 energy. 
Sub-emphasis on 1 and 4 energy.) 


Enjoys and works extremely well with 
23 others,., „ 

Sometimes spokesman or peacemaker. 

Talented and versatile, good at presenting 
ideas. 

Likes new experience, change, travel. 
Entertaining, amusing, very enthusiastic, 
progressive. 

Adaptable. 

Very sociable, delightful companion. 


Very imaginative, artistic, creative. 
Energetic. 

Quick mind, clever, analytical. 

Sensitivity to others’ feelings with most feel¬ 
ings expressed. 

Affectionate. 

Restless, impatient, chafes at routine. 

Shirks responsibility at times. 

(Emphasis on 5 energy. Sub-empha¬ 
sis on 2 and 3 energy.) 






THE BIRTHDAY 


285 


CHARTER 
THE BIRTHDAY 


6 BALANCE 

RESPONSIBILITY 

LOVE 


Responsible, helpful, conscientious. 

Can facilitate changes in inharmonious situa¬ 
tions. 

Sympathetic, kind, generous, understand¬ 
ing. 

Open and honest with others. 

Devoted spouse and parent, much interest-in 
home, family. 

Creative, artistic. 


Good mind. 

Much emotion and sensitivity. 

Loving, friendly, appreciative of others. 
Gives and receives much affection. 

Better at continuing than starting. 

Will pick up responsibilities if others falter. 

(Emphasis on 6 energy only. No sub¬ 
emphasis on other energies.) 


Usually responsible, but independent at the 

15 same time. 

Helpful, conscientious. 

Can facilitate changes in inharmonious situa¬ 
tions. 

Much will-power. 

Sympathetic, understanding. 

Adaptable, enthusiastic. 

Devoted spouse and parent, interest in home, 
family. 

Creative, artistic, imaginative. 


'( 

Potential for achievement and financial t 

reward. J 

Good mind. | 

Practical, rational. 3 

Emotion and sensitivity, sometimes represses 

feelings. : 

Loving, friendly, appreciative of others. 

Gives and receives affection. 

(Emphasis on 6 energy. Sub-empha¬ 
sis on 1 and 5 energy.) 


24 


Responsible, helpful, conscientious. 

Sometimes spokesman or peacemaker. 

Can facilitate changes in inharmonious situa¬ 
tions. 

Works well with others. 

Sympathetic, kind, generous, understanding. 
Devoted spouse and parent, interest in home, 
family. 

Creative, artistic. 

Good organizer, manager. 

Can work long and hard, self-disciplined. 

Good mind. 


Practical, rational. 

Much emotion and sensitivity, represses some 
feelings. 

Loving, friendly, appreciative of others. 
Gives and receives much affection. 

Better at continuing than starting. 

Will pick up responsibilities if others falter. 
Good with details. 

(Emphasis on 6 energy. Sub-empha¬ 
sis on 2 and 4 energy.) 







286 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 5 


CHARTER 
THE BIRTHDAY 



ANALYSIS 

UNDERSTANDING 


Not too adaptable, prefers to work alone but 
7 often feels isolated. 

Needs time to rest or meditate. 

Introspective, stubborn, self-centered. 

Usually interested in technical, scientific, re¬ 
ligious or occult subjects. 

Likely to enjoy spiritual or psychic explora¬ 
tions. 

Given to unique or unusual approaches or 
solutions. 

Fine mind, good intuition. 


Logical, rational approach. 

Feels deeply, usually represses emotions. 
Extremely sensitive, but relatively uncom¬ 
municative. 

Difficulty giving or receiving affection. 

Can carry work from start to finish using 
own approach at own pace. 

Perfectionist, stickler for details. 

(Emphasis on 7 energy only. No sub¬ 
emphasis on other energies.) 


Relatively inflexible, insists on independence. 

16 Prefers to work alone but usually feels lonely. 

Needs time to rest or meditate. 

Introspective, stubborn, self-centered. 

Difficult to maintain permanent relations. 

Interest in home, family, but strong personal 
needs at the same time. 

Usually interested in technical, scientific, re¬ 
ligious or occult subjects. 

Likely to enjoy spiritual explorations. 

Given to unique or unusual approaches. 

“Different” wavelength may confuse others. 

Potential for achievement and financial 
reward. 


Often not too adaptable. 

25 Needs time to rest or meditate. 

Introspective, sometimes stubborn, sometimes 
self-centered. 

Cautiously friendly, quiet enthusiasm, some¬ 
times peacemaker. 

Cautiously enjoys new experience. 

Usually interested in technical, scientific, 
religious or occult subjects. 

Likely to enjoy spiritual or psychic explora¬ 
tions. 

Given to unique or unusual approaches or 
solutions. 


Fine mind, good intuition. 

Logical, rational approach. Responsible. 
Feels deeply, usually represses emotions. 
Extremely sensitive, but usually uncommun¬ 
icative. 

Much difficulty giving or receiving affection. 
Can carry work from start to finish using 
own approach at own pace. 

Perfectionist, stickler for details. 

(Emphasis on 7 and 16/7 energy. 
Sub-emphasis on 1 and 6 energy.) 


Fine mind, good intuition. i 

Logical, rational approach. $ 

Feels deeply, often represses emotions. ' 

Extremely sensitive, but often uncommuni- \ 

cative. 5 

Some difficulty giving or receiving affection. 

Better at continuing than starting, occasional 

restlessness. ;> 

Stickler for details. i{ 

s 

(Emphasis on 7 energy. Sub-empha- ij 

sis on 2 and 5 energy.) ^ 


ii 

1 

§ 









THE BIRTHDAY 


287 


CHART I 


THE BIRTHDAY 


MATERIAL SATISFACTION 


Very capable in business world, prefers to be 
in charge. 

Organizational, managerial, administrative 
capabilities. 

Can handle large projects. 

Efficient, can handle money well. 

Ambitious, energetic, goal-oriented. 
Self-confident. 

Dependable. 


Seeks material satisfactions. 

Practical, realistic. 

Expresses little feeling. 

Better at starting than continuing. 

Better at broad strokes than details. 

(Emphasis on 8 energy only. No sub¬ 
emphasis on other energies.) 


Very capable in business world, prefers to be 
in charge. 

Independent attitude, executive ability. 
Organizational, managerial, administrative 
capabilities. 

Can handle large projects. 

Efficient, can handle money well. 

Ambitious, energetic, goal-oriented. 

Stubborn or self-centered. 

Self-confident. 

Dependable. 

Seeks material satisfactions. 


Good mind, good intuition. 

Practical, realistic. 

Often original approach, unique or unusual 
solutions. 

Sensitive, but usually represses feelings. 
Difficulty giving or receiving affection. 

Better at starting than continuing. 

Better at broad strokes than details. 

(Emphasis on 8 energy. Sub-empha¬ 
sis on 1 and 7 energy.) 


Capable in business world, works well with 
others. ... .. r 

Organizational, managerial, administrative 
capabilities. 

Efficient, can handle money well. 

Ambitious, energetic. 

Adaptable, cooperative, responsible, con¬ 
scientious. 

Self-confident. 

Dependable. 

Sociable, diplomatic. Uses persuasion rather 
than force. 


Seeks material satisfactions. 

Creative, artistic. 

Good mind. 

Practical, realistic. 

Sensitive, expresses some of the feelings. 
Affectionate, but reserved. 

Good at starting and continuing. 

Good at broad strokes and details. 

(Emphasis on 8 energy. Sub-empha¬ 
sis on 2 and 6 energy.) 





CHART! 


THE BIRTHDAY 


Works well with others. 

Humanistic, philanthropic approach. 
Broadminded, tolerant, generous. 
Sympathetic, compassionate. 
Idealistic, can inspire others. 

Creative, imaginative. 

Sensitive to others’ needs and feelings. 


SELFLESSNESS 

HUMANITARIANISM 


Much feeling expressed, may be involved in 
many dramatic situations. 

Gives much in the way of friendship, affec¬ 
tion, love. Can sometimes be content with 
minimal return. 

(Emphasis on 9 energy only. No sub¬ 
emphasis on other energies.) 


Works well with others but must preserve in- 
18 dependence. 

Humanistic, philanthropic approach, often in 
business situations. 

Executive ability. 

Organizational, managerial, administrative 
capabilities. 

Broadminded, tolerant, generous. 
Sympathetic, compassionate. 

Much will-power. 

Idealistic, can inspire others. 

Creative, imaginative. 

Potential for achievement and financial 

Works well with others. 

27 Needs some time to rest and meditate. 
Humanistic, philanthropic approach. 

Broadminded, tolerant, generous, coopera¬ 
tive. 

Sympathetic, compassionate. 

Occasional introspective or self-centered 
needs. 

Sociable, uses persuasion rather than force. 
Idealistic, can inspire others. 

Creative, imaginative, unique or unusual 
approaches or solutions. 


reward. 

Good mind. 

Practical, rational. 

Sensitive. 

Some feelings expressed but much repressed, 
may be involved in many dramatic situa¬ 
tions. 

Gives some friendship, affection, love. Can 
sometimes be content with minimal return 

(Emphasis on 9 energy. Sub-empha¬ 
sis on 1 and 8 energy.) 

Good mind, logical approach. 

Extremely sensitive to others’ needs and feel¬ 
ings. 

Much feeling expressed, may be involved in 
many dramatic situations. 

Gives much in the way of friendship, affec¬ 
tion, love. Can sometimes be content with 
minimal return. 

(Emphasis on 9 energy. Sub-empha¬ 
sis on 2 and 7 energy.) 





! 


THE BIRTHDAY 


CHARTg 
THE BIRTHDAY 



ILLUMINATION 


289 


|£ 

> 


[3 


3 

% 


Works well with others, 
ll Often inspires by example. 

Uses persuasion rather than force. 
Spiritual, occult or psychic explorations. 
Idealistic. 

Creative. 

Nervous tension. 

Uncomfortable in business world. 


Good mind, analytical ability. 

Good intuition. 

Very aware and sensitive, often high emo¬ 
tions, temperamental. 

More dreamer than doer. 

(Emphasis on 11 and 2 energy. No 
sub-emphasis on other energies.) 


29 


Works well with others. 

Often inspires by example. 

Uses persuasion rather than force. 
Spiritual, occult or psychic explorations. 
Idealistic. 

Much creativity, imagination. 

Nervous tension. 

Uncomfortable in business world. 

Good mind, analytical ability. 

Good intuition. 


Very aware and sensitive, often high emo¬ 
tions, temperamental. 

May be involved in dramatic situations. 

Gives much in the way of friendship, affec¬ 
tion, love. Can sometimes be content with 
minimal return. 

More dreamer than doer. 

(Emphasis on 11 and 2 energy. Sub¬ 
emphasis on 9 energy.) 







290 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 5 





Capable of handling large scale under¬ 
takings. =. 

Capable of leading in new directions. 
Extremely capable organizer. 

Unorthodox approach. 

Responsible, serious, sincere, works long and 
hard. 

Idealistic, desire to work for the good of all. 
Inner strength, often charisma. 


Nervous tension. 

Much unusual perception and awareness. 
Good intuition. 

Better at starting than continuing. 

Better at broad strokes than details. 

(Emphasis on 22 and 4 energy. No 
sub-emphasis on other energies.) 
































THE ASPECTS 293 


This chart is different than any of the others. Rather than 
describe the potential characteristics and energies involved in a 
specific number, this chart describes the potential relation be¬ 
tween two numbers. This relation is called an aspect. 

This aspect chart indicates the potential harmony or discord 
of the energies involved. The person’s life may be harmonious or 
discordant depending on (1) whether he expresses the aspect 
potential, rises above the aspect potential or falls below the 
aspect potential, (2) the use of his free will, and (3) the en¬ 
vironment in which he finds himself. 

See Chapter 7, page 49, for further discussion of the use of 
this chart. 


Since 11 is the higher octave of 2, wherever 11 energy is in¬ 
volved, read both the 11 and 2 aspects. 

Since 22 is the higher octave of 4, wherever 22 energy is in¬ 
volved, read both the 22 and 4 aspects. 


The aspects are described on the page related to the lower 
number of the aspect. For instance, the 5-3 aspect (which is the 
same as the 3-5 aspect) would be found on the 3 page of the 
chart under the 3-5 heading. 

The “usual” description of the aspect appears directly below 
each aspect heading. Sometimes, in parentheses below the usual 
description you’ll find descriptions divergent from the “usual” 
description. 



294 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 6 



CHART 0 

THE ASPECTS 

Summary of 1 aspec 

3 harmonious aspe 
1 harmonious or d 

-| INDIVIDUATION 

i INDEPENDENCE j 

JL ATTAINMENT \ 


ts: 6 discordant aspects f 

c):s 1 very discordant aspect | 

scordant aspect £ 


1*1 Usually VERY DISCORDANT Timid, afraid to stand on own two feet. 

Overemphasis on self and own needs. Little Possible approach to alleviate difficulties: ; j 

concern for others. The individual must work to be accepted 

or and feel comfortable in group situations. 


1 • 2 Usually DISCORDANT conflicts with the potential of the 2 to work 

The potential of the 1 to lead and manage along with others. 3 

'i 


1*3 Usually HARMONIOUS of verbal expression of the 3. 

The self-centeredness of the 1 is toned down (Sometimes, the 3 expresses as a happy-go- i 

by the social awareness of the 3. The leader- lucky individual, conflicting with the l’s V 

ship potential of the 1 is enhanced by the gift driving desire for attainment.) 


1*4 Usually HARMONIOUS (Sometimes, the self-centered potential of i 

The potential of the 1 to lead and manage is the 1 is emphasized by the 4 s potential for 3 

enhanced by the potential of the 4 for system rigidity, causing a negative approach.) 

and order. :) 


1*5 Sometimes HARMONIOUS; sometimes best interests. 

DISCORDANT or 

The attainment potential of the 1 may be en- The self _ centered goa l-oriented potential of i 

hanced by the constructive use of freedom of the j conflict w s ith the consta £ t flux often i 

the 5 This combination may be extremely seen fa ^ 5 duci a n in different S 

powerful or may produce a combination so d j rec tions ■; 

overpowering as to work against individual’s ' ;i 


1 • 6 Usually DISCORDANT with the potential of the 6 for responsibility } 

The self-centered potential of the 1 conflicts anc ^ concern for others. ; 


1*7 Usually DISCORDANT (Sometimes, the unique point of view of the j?' 

The desire for attainment of the 1 conflicts ^ enhances the attainment potential of the a 

with the introspective potential of the 7. ; ; 


1*8 Usually HARMONIOUS (Sometimes, the self-centered potential of ? 

The attainment potential of the 1 is enhanced \ be emphasized by the potential of | 

by the executive potential of the 8 for material ® ^ or stu bbornness and rigidity, causing :: 

achievement. a ne K atlve approach.) | 


1*9 Usually DISCORDANT others may be expressed as creative activity. § 

The self-centered potential of the 1 conflicts In this situation, the attainment potential of ). 

with the potential of the 9 for giving to others. ” le 1 may be enhanced by the creative | 

, _, 6 , ? potential of the 9.) | 

(Sometimes, the 9 s potential of giving to ;( 

i 

I 

1*11 Usually DISCORDANT potential of the 11 for idealistic or spiritual :| 

The potential of the 1 for independence and achievement. 

self-centered attainment conflicts with the 

1 

1*22 Usually DISCORDANT potential of the 22 for substantial material 

The potential of the 1 for independence and achievement, 
self-centered attainment conflicts with the 

L 










THE ASPECTS 


295 


; l_ 



CHART 0 

THE ASPECTS 

f. 

v RELATION | 

sLJ ASSOCIATION i 

% 

j 

Summary of 2 aspec 
5 harmonious aspr 

f 

its: 5 discordant aspects 3 

ct:s 1 very discordant aspect | 

r; 


2*1 Usually DISCORDANT § 

[ 

2*2 Usually VERY DISCORDANT group. Little patience with details or with s 

Meddling busybody, adding confusion rather people. Possibly withdrawn, shy and retiring, 
than harmony to a situation. Possible approach to alleviate difficulties: 

or the individual must work to learn system j 

, . and organization. 

Difficulty m finding fulfilling place in a 

1 

2*3 Usually HARMONIOUS (Sometimes, the 3 expresses through frivo- ? 

The potential of the 2 for cooperating and har- ^° l us activity and a dilettante s approach , 

monizing is enhanced by the social awareness which may conflict with the potential of the l 

of the 3. 2 for cooperation.) ;5 


2*4 Usually HARMONIOUS (Sometimes the potential for harmonizing 

The potential of the 2 for cooperation and the 2 is stifled by the comparative fixity 

harmonizing is enhanced by the potential of a PProach °f the 4.) ■, 

the 4 for system and order. 

1 

2*5 Usually DISCORDANT sonal desire for freedom and the state of flux 

The potential of the 2 for cooperating and the 5. 

harmonizing conflicts with the strong per- 


2’6 Usually HARMONIOUS positive side to this combination. 

The potential of the 2 for cooperating is con- (The 2-6 individual must take responsibility 

siderably enhanced by the potential of the 6 for for himself as well as others. He should not 

responsibility. The 6’s ability to show friend- be reduced to a doormat because of his : 

ship, affection and love provides a very desire to help others fulfill themselves.) 


2*7 Usually DIS.CQRDANT * (Sometimes, the introspective potential of rj 

The potential of the 2 for cooperating and har- 7 is . suppressed and the potential to ?■ 

monizing conflicts with the introspective po- share and knowledge is expressed 

tential of the 7. The 7’s appearance of being instead. This enhances the potentia o t e 

“different” makes it difficult for the 7 to work for working together with others.) £ 

well in groups most ofihe time. i 


2 • 8 Usually DISCORDANT The 8 usually expresses a potential to lead 

The potential of the 2 for cooperating and rather than to be a cooperating member of a / 

harmonizing conflicts with the executive po- group. 

tential of the 8 for material achievement. 

1 

i 

2*9 Usually HARMONIOUS submerged by his desire to help others.) : 

The potential of the 2 for cooperating and (The 9 often has trouble expressing its 

harmonizing is enhanced by the potential of positive potential and may prefer to receive 

the 9 for giving to others. rather than give. In this case, the potential 

(The 2-9 individual must stay aware of his the negative 9 would conflict with the 

own needs so that he is not completely potential of the 2.) p 


2*11 Usually HARMONIOUS partial detriment to the 2 approach. 

The potential of the 2 for cooperating and (Sometimes, the potential of the 2 is express- j 

harmonizing may be enhanced by the poten- ln S on a relatively mundane level, while the 

tial of the 11 for idealistic or spiritual achieve- potential of the 11 is expressing on a high 

. , c \, ,, . n u spiritual level, thereby causing a conflict.) 

ment. The nervous tension or the 11 will be a ^ J & 7 


2*22 Usually DISCORDANT to substantial material achievement. The ner- 

The potential of the 2 for being a cooperating vous . tension of the 22 will act as a further 
and harmonizing member of a group conflicts detriment to the 2 approach. i 

with the potential of the 22 for leading the way : 












296 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 6 


i 

CHART0 
THE ASPECTS 


3 EXPRESSION 
JOY OF LIVING 



Summary of 3 aspects: 4 discordant aspects 

6 * harmonious aspects 1 very discordant aspect | 


3'1 Usually HARMONIOUS r 


3*2 Usually HARMONIOUS 


3*3 Usually VERY DISCORDANT uncomfortable in even light social situation. 

Frivolous. Little sense of purpose. Scattering Often shy and withdrawn. ■ 

of forces. Possible approach to alleviate the difficul- E 

or ties: The individual must work to learn to E 

_ „ , , accept responsibility. He has to learn what 

Difficulty with self-expression. May hide feel- is involved in being a friend. § 

ings and emotions from self and others. Seems : 


3*4 Usually DISCORDANT enhanced by the constructive, systematic 

The potential of the 3 for creative self- approach of the 4. The harmony or discord 3 

expression and sociability conflicts with the depends on whether the 4 is strong and pur- ; 

potential of the 4 for system and order. P oseful or l' ust ri g idl Y set in his wa Y s -) 

(Sometimes, the self-expression of the 3 is 

1 

3 ‘5 Usually HARMONIOUS (Sometimes, the restlessness, versatility and ■ 

The potential of the 3 for creative self-expres- JPY e change of the 5 combines with the 

sion and sociability is enhanced by the poten- *ght and j°y °* t * le ^ to produce frivolity, or 

tial of the 5 for the constructive use of freedom. in extremes, purposelessness and erratic 

behavior.) 


3 • 6 Usually HARMONIOUS and love. The potential for creative self-expres- j 

The potential of the 3 for social awareness sion of feoffe the 3 and 6 enhances the expressive ( 

enhances the potential of the 6 for friendship capabilities. 


3*7 Usually DISCORDANT of the 3 conflicts with the “different”, less 

The extrovert potential of the 3 conflicts with adaptable approach of the 7. 

the introvert potential of the 7. The sociability 3 


3 • 8 Usually DISCORDANT potential of the 8 for material achievement. t 

The potential of the 3 for creative self-expres- The adaptability of the 3 conflicts with the fix- ] 

sion and sociability conflicts with the executive °* the o. :> 


3 ’ 9 Usually HARMONIOUS capabilities. jj 

The potential of the 3 for social awareness en- (The 9 often has trouble expressing its | 

hances the potential of the 9 for giving to positive potential and may prefer to receive i 

others. rather than give. In this case, the potential | 

The potential for creative self-expression of the negative 9 would conflict with the 1 

both the 3 and the 9 enhances the expressive potential of the 3.) jj 

1 

3*11 Usually HARMONIOUS potential of the 11 for idealistic or spiritual ij 

The potential of the 3 for creative self- achievement. The lighter tone of the 3 may be g 

expression and social awareness enhances the a g°°d foil for the seriousness of the 11 . 3 


3‘22 Usually DISCORDANT and its potential for substantial material ij 

The potential of the 3 for a light, less serious achievement. r 

tone conflicts with the serious tone of the 22 

1 

■ 











THE ASPECTS 


297 


CHART0 
THE ASPECTS 


Summary of 4 aspects: 



4 harmonious aspects 
1 harmonious or discordant aspect 

4 • 1 Usually HARMONIOUS 

4*2 Usually HARMONIOUS 

4*3 Usually DISCORDANT 

4 • 4 Usually VERY DISCORDANT 

Feels limited, tied down, frustrated. Very 
rigid attitudes—stubborn, obstinate. Obsessed 
with system and order; loses sight of the forest 
because of his interest in the trees, 
or 

Very disorganized. Rarely feels accountable. 

4*5 Usually DISCORDANT 

The potential of the 4 for system and order 

4*6 Usually HARMONIOUS 

The potential of the 4 for system and order 
enhances the potential of the 6 for responsibili¬ 
ty and concern. 

4*7 Usually HARMONIOUS 

The potential pf the 4 for system and order 
enhances the potential of the 7 for study and 
research. 


4 * 8 Usually DISCORDANT 

The potential of the 4 for system and order 
combined with the executive potential of the 8 
for achievement produces a self-centered per¬ 
son whose executive capabilities are apparent. 


LIMITATION 

ORDER 

SERVICE 


5 discordant aspects 
1 very discordant aspect 


Often has no sense of time or committment. 
Actions are often irresponsible. 

Possible approach to alleviate difficulties: 
The individual must work to develop execu¬ 
tive ability. He has to develop the capabili¬ 
ty of seeing things realistically, with a 
practical approach. 


conflicts with the strong desire of the 5 for 
freedom. 


(Sometimes, the fixity of the 4, expressed as 
either strength or rigidity, conflicts with the 
potential of the 6 for concern.) 


(Sometimes, the fixity of the 4, expressed as 
either strength or rigidity, combined with 
the introspective potential of the 7 produces 
a very self-centered approach and difficulty 
in relating to others.) 


but whose fixity stifles the potential for the use 
of these capabilities. This aspect tends toward 
a very rigid attitude—often an extremely 
obstinate person. 


4-9 Usually DISCORDANT 

The potential of the 4 for fixity of approach 
conflicts with the potential of the 9 for giving 
to others. 

4-11 Usually DISCORDANT 

The potential of the 4 for system and order 


4*22 Sometimes HARMONIOUS; sometimes DIS¬ 
CORDANT. 

The potential of the 4 for system and order 
may be enhanced by the potential of the 22 for 
leading the way to substantial material 


(Sometimes, the potential of the 4 for 
system and order may enhance the potential 
of the 9 for expression.) 


conflicts with the potential of the 11 for 
idealistic or spiritual achievement. 


achievement. The fixity of the 4 is apt to con¬ 
flict with the ability of the 22 to take advan¬ 
tage of situations with developing potential. In 
any case, the nervous tension of the 22 will be a 
partial detriment to the 4 approach. 


'i 

£ 







298 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 6 


5 CONSTRUCTIVE FREEDOM 


Summary of 5 aspects: 8 discordant aspects j 

1 harmonious aspect 1 very discordant aspect jj 

1 harmonious or discordant aspect jj 


CHART0 
THE ASPECTS 


5*1 Sometimes HARMONIOUS; sometimes DIS¬ 
CORDANT. 


5'2 Usually DISCORDANT 


a 



5*3 Usually HARMONIOUS l 


5*4 Usually DISCORDANT h 


5*5 Usually VERY DISCORDANT Fear of freedom and fear of taking risks pro- ij 

Too much freedom used carelessly. Emphasis duce a stagnant situation with attendant frus- 
on freedom rather than the constructive use of tration. Inability to take advantage of talents 5 

freedom. Excessive pull toward food, drink, and opportunities. 3 

drugs, sex—physical satisfaction with little Possible approach to alleviate difficulties: 

thought of other pleasures or other potentials. The individual must work to be aware of ? 

Forces are often scattered bringing little con- individuality, to achieve independence and 

crete result and much frustration. to attain some specific goals, 

or 

$ 


5*6 Usually DISCORDANT conflicts with the potential of the 6 for : ‘ 

The strong personal desire of the 5 for freedom responsibility and concern for others. 

- . • C . * ■*. 


5 * 7 Usually DISCORDANT (The free-wheeling potential of the 5 for : 

The strong personal desire of the 5 for freedom freedom may conflict with the different , 

conflicts with the introspective approach and relatively inflexible potential of the 7, caus- j 

potential of the 7 for study and research. ' n 8 an even more discordant aspect.) | 

it 


5*8 Usually DISCORDANT the executive potential of the 8 for material 

The free-wheeling potential of the 5 for free- achievement. | 

dom conflicts with the fixity of approach and | 


5*9 Usually DISCORDANT (Sometimes, the potential of the 5 for ii 

The strong personal desire of the 5 for freedom freedom may enhance the potential of the 9 | 

conflicts with the potential of the 9 for giving ^ or self-expression.) 

to others. if 


5*11 Usually DISCORDANT conflicts with the potential of the 11 for ideal- : 

The strong personal desire of the 5 for freedom istic or s P iritua l achievements for all. 


5 * 22 Usually DISCORDANT conflicts with the potential of the 22 for sub- 

The strong personal desire of the 5 for freedom stantial material achievement. 





THE ASPECTS 299 


6 BALANCE 

RESPONSIBILITY 

LOVE 


CHARTg 
THE ASPECTS 


6-1 

6^2 

(K3 

CM 

6v5 

6’6 


6-7 


6-8 


6-9 


611 


Summary of 6 aspects: 

6 harmonious aspects 

Usually DISCORDANT 

Usually HARMONIOUS 

Usually HARMONIOUS 

Usually HARMONIOUS 

Usually DISCORDANT 

Usually VERY DISCORDANT 

Overwhelmed with responsibility. Person finds 
it difficult to recognize and care for own 
needs because of the extreme and constant 
needs of others (parents, children, spouse par¬ 
ticularly). Person is often reduced to a near¬ 
slave because of acceptance of so much respon¬ 
sibility. 

or 


4 discordant aspects 
1 very discordant aspect 


(Rare) Inability to accept responsibility and to 
express friendship and love makes it difficult to 
have any close relation. Difficulty handling 
even the simplest everyday responsibilities pro¬ 
duces a frightened individual. 

Possible approach to alleviate difficulties: 
The individual must work on self-expres¬ 
sion. He has to learn to see the lighter side of 
things, and learn to express the joy of living. 


Usually DISCORDANT concern for others conflicts with the introspec- 

The potential of the 6 for responsibility and tive P otentia l °f the 7. 


Usually DISCORDANT The 8 is usually concerned with responsibility 

The potential of the 6 for responsibility and only a « far as its own self-centered goals are 
concern for others conflicts with the executive concerned. The adaptable attitude of the 6 
potential of the 8 for material achievement. conflicts with the fixity of approach of the 8. 


Usually HARMONIOUS 
The potential of the 6 for responsibility and 
concern for others is enhanced by the potential 
of the 9 for giving to others. 

(The 6 gives because of his responsibility, 
affection and love. The 9 gives because of 
the humanitarian concern. This can be an 
extremely strong combination, but the 6-9 
individual must stay aware of his own needs 
so that he is not completely submerged by 


Usually HARMONIOUS 

The potential of the 6 for responsibility and 
concern for others is enhanced by the potential 
of the 11 for idealistic or spiritual achieve¬ 
ments. The nervous tension of the 11 will be a 
partial detriment to the 6 approach. 


his desire to help others. 

(The 9 often has trouble expressing its posi¬ 
tive potential and may prefer to receive 
rather than give. In this case, the potential 
of the negative 9 would conflict with the 
potential of the 6.) 

The potential for creative self-expression of 
both the 6 and 9 enhances the expressive 
capabilities. 


(The 6 is usually concerned with home, 
family, friends in specific situations, while 
the 11 is often concerned with broader, 
more abstract dealings, producing the 
potential for conflict.) 


6*22 Usually HARMONIOUS 

The potential of the 6 for responsibility and 
concern for others is enhanced by the potential 
of the 22 for substantial material achievement. 
The nervous tension of the 22 will be a partial 


detriment to the 6 approach. 

(The 6 is usually concerned with home, 
family, friends, while the 22 is usually con¬ 
cerned with a larger scale of enterprise, 
producing the potential for conflict.) 


i 

$ 






ir 

•3- 









300 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 6 



ANALYSIS 

UNDERSTANDING 


Summary of 7 aspects: 
2 harmonious aspects 


8 discordant aspects 
1 very discordant aspect 


Usually DISCORDANT 


Usually DISCORDANT 


Usually DISCORDANT 


Usually HARMONIOUS 


Usually DISCORDANT 


Usually DISCORDANT 


Usually VERY DISCORDANT 
Extremely self-contained and inflexible. A 
“different” point of view that may appear to 
others as considerably eccentric. Difficult to 
get to know—purposely put others off because 
more comfortable keeping distance from 
others. 


Timid, shy, retiring. Very dependent on others 
and most resentful of that dependency. Efforts 
to stand alone often thwarted. 

Possible approach to alleviate difficulties: 
The individual must work to express more 
freely. He has to learn to take advantage of 
opportunities by being more adaptable. He 
must also learn to express feelings honestly, 
rather than hiding them. 


Usually DISCORDANT 

The introspective potential of the 7 conflicts 
with the executive potential of the 8 for 
achievement. The inner nature of the 7 com¬ 
bined with the fixity of the 8 may produce a 


very self-centered approach and difficulty in 
relating to others. 

(Sometimes, the potential of the 7 for study 
and research enhances the executive poten¬ 
tial of the 8 for achievement.) 


Usually DISCORDANT 

The introspective potential of the 7 conflicts 
with the potential of the 9 for giving. 


(Sometimes, the “different” aproach of the 
7 enhances the 9’s potential for self- 
expression.) 


7*11 Usually HARMONIOUS 

The potential of the 7 for study and research 
enhances the potential of the 11 for idealistic 
or spiritual achievement. The nervous tension 
of the 11 will be a partial detriment to the 7 
approach. 


(Sometimes, the introspective potential and 
the “different” approach of the 7 combine 
with the dreamy side of the 11 to produce a 
person somewhat removed from the reali¬ 
ties of the world.) 


7-22 Usually DISCORDANT with the potential of the 22 for substantial ma- 

The introspective potential of the 7 conflicts Serial achievement. 








THE ASPECTS 301 

1— 

CHART g 

THE ASPECTS 

8 MATERIAL SATISFACTION 



Summary of 8 aspects: 8 discordant aspects 

2 harmonious aspects 1 very discordant aspect 

~ 

8 • 1 Usually HARMONIOUS 

1 

8*2 Usually DISCORDANT 


8*3 Usually DISCORDANT 


8'4 Usually DISCORDANT 

1 

8*5 Usually DISCORDANT 

I 

8’6 Usually DISCORDANT 

1 

8*7 Usually DISCORDANT 


8'8 Usually VERY DISCORDANT lack of material needs. Stubborn attitude, fixi- 

Very materialistic-obsessed with goals and of approach stifles potential for growth, 

achievements. Extremely rigid attitudes— Possible approach to alleviate difficulties: 

stubborn and obstinate. Cold and aloof. No The individual must work to see and appre- 

matter the attainment, he feels limited, tied ciate the inherent values—including but 

down, frustrated. . not limited to the material values. He has 

or - r ‘ - to learn to study and meditate on the inner 

_ , . , , , satisfactions as well as the material satisfac- 

Lack of concern with material things produces tions 

an unrealistic, impractical, unworkable way 
of approaching matters. Problems because of 


8*9 Usually DISCORDANT for material achievement may be broad 

The executive potential of the 8 for material enou 8 h to enhance the potential of the 9 for 

achievement conflicts with the potential of the g ivin §- In this instance, the 9 s giving would 

9 for giving be on a more material plane than is usually 

, . . , r , _ the case.) 

(Sometimes, the executive potential ot the 8 


8*11 Usually DISCORDANT achievement conflicts with the potential of the 

The executive potential of the 8 for material 11 for idealistic or spiritual achievement. 


8 *22 Usually HARMONIOUS powerful aspect, as long as the 8 can be flexible 

The executive potential of the 8 for material enou 8 h t0 take advantage of the opportunities, 
achievement enhances the potential of the 22 (Sometimes, the fixity of the approach of 

for leading the way to substantial material the 8 conflicts with the 22’s broad, adapt- 

achievement. The tension of the 22 will be a able approach.) 

partial detriment. This can be an extremely 









302 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 6 


CHART0 
THE ASPECTS 


Summary of 9 aspects: 

5 harmonious aspects 
5 discordant aspects 
1 very discordant aspect 

9 • 1 Usually DISCORDANT 

9*2 Usually HARMONIOUS 

9'3 Usually HARMONIOUS 

9 * 4 Usually DISCORDANT 

9*5 Usually DISCORDANT 


9 SELFLESSNESS 

HUM ANIT ARIANISM 



9*6 Usually HARMONIOUS { 


9*7 Usually DISCORDANT 


9*8 Usually DISCORDANT 


9*9 Usually VERY DISCORDANT 

.... . • <’• >. 

Overwhelmed with giving. Finds it difficult to 
recognize personal needs because all efforts 
are directed toward others. Feels discontent, 
trapped. Others are tired of hearing of constant 
sacrifice. 

or 

Very selfish. Concerned primarily with getting 


rather than giving. Insensitive to others’ needs. 
Self-centered, usually inflexible. 

Possible approach to alleviate difficulties: 
The individual must work to win and pre¬ 
serve independence. He has to learn to 
strive for material freedom at the same 
time that the humanitarian qualities are 
expressed. 


9-11 Usually HARMONIOUS 

The potential of the 9 for giving is enhanced by 
the potential of the 11 for idealistic or spiritual 
achievement. 


9-22 Usually HARMONIOUS 

The potential of the 9 for giving is enhanced by 
the potential of the 22 for significant material 
achievement. 









THE ASPECTS 


303 


CHARTg 
THE ASPECTS 


Summary of 11 aspects: 

5 harmonious aspects 
5 discordant aspects 
1 very discordant aspect 

11*1 Usually DISCORDANT 

11*2 Usually HARMONIOUS 

11*3 Usually HARMONIOUS 


11*4 Usually DISCORDANT 



11-9 Usually HARMONIOUS 


11-11 Usually VERY DISCORDANT 

A lost dreamer. Idealistic motivations over- accomplishment, satisfaction of selfish needs— 
whelmed by impractical schemes. Aiming to- includes little perception of spiritual satisfac- 
ward spirituality with no grasp of mundane tions. 

realities. Much nervous tension. Possible approach to alleviate difficulties: 

or The individual must lower his sights, work 

Potential for accomplishment is masked in t0 ac hieve a more practical, realistic view, 

idealistic, even inspirational words, but the He can try to use the enormous potential to 

hidden motivation—personal power, material help others. 

j I 

11-22 Usually DISCORDANT 

The potential of the 11 for idealistic or spiri¬ 
tual achievement conflicts with the potential 
of the 22 for leading the way to substantial 
material achievement. The nervous tension of 
both the 11 and 22 act as an additional detri¬ 
ment. 


(Sometimes, the potential of the 11 is prac¬ 
tical enough to enhance the potential of the 
22, leading to material progress. The ner¬ 
vous tension is still a detriment.) 


11 


ILLUMINATION 
















304 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 6 


CHART/ 


THE ASPECTS 


22 


MASTER BUILDER 


Summary of 22 aspects: 

3 harmonious aspects 
1 harmonious or discordant aspect 
6 discordant aspects 
1 very discordant aspect 

22 • 1 Usually DISCORDANT 


22*2 Usually DISCORDANT 
22*3 Usually DISCORDANT 


22*4 Sometimes HARMONIOUS; sometimes DIS¬ 
CORDANT 



22*5 

Usually DISCORDANT 

S 

H 

22*6 

Usually HARMONIOUS 

> 


22*7 

Usually DISCORDANT 

£ 

■ 

22*8 

Usually HARMONIOUS 


■ 

22*9 

Usually HARMONIOUS 

3 . 


22*11 Usually DISCORDANT 


22*22 Usually VERY DISCORDANT 

Overwhelmed by extreme potential of 
awareness and capability plus intensified ner¬ 
vous tension. Difficult to amalgamate and 
assimilate the enormity of the potential in¬ 
volved in order to use talents at the desired high 
level. Usually, much confusion of intentions 
and much difficulty in organizing oneself to 
move in a positive direction. 

or 

Potential for substantial material achievement 
confused with personal attainment, use of per¬ 
sonal power and self-centered material 
accomplishment. The achievement, though 
substantial, tends to overwhelm the individual 


who has achieved for selfish ends. He finds lit¬ 
tle of the pleasure or satisfaction he expected. 
The heightened nervous tension makes the 
path to achievement more difficult, the 
ultimate attainment unsatisfactory. 

Possible approach to alleviate difficulties: 
The individual must lower his sights. He 
should work to achieve material freedom 
and the power which accompanies it, then 
learn to achieve the satisfaction which may 
be related to the material freedom at first, 
but is ultimately above the necessity for 
material attainment. 























THE KARMIC DEBT 


30 7 


DESCRIPTION 

The Karmic Debt is a significant difficulty in this life as pay¬ 
ment for the misapplication of energies in a past life. See 
Chapter 11, page 121. 

In this section, the following are discussed: 

The cause of the Karmic Debt. 

The characteristics manifested in this life due to the Karmic 
Debt. 

The changes necessary in this life to reduce or remove the dif¬ 
ficulties encountered. 

The specific effect of the Karmic Debt on the Life Path, Expres¬ 
sion and Soul Urge are shown below. The specific effect on the 
Birthday is already included in the description of the Birthday 
in CHART 5: THE BIRTHDAY. 

IN THE LIFE PATH 

Expression of the Karmic Debt through the Life Path. 


IN THE EXPRESSION 

Expression of the Karmic Debt through the Expression. 


IN THE SOUL URGE 

Expression of the Karmic Debt through the Soul Urge. 


This chart contains pages for only 1, 4, 5 and 7 since these are 
the only numbers involved with Karmic Debt. 




308 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 7 



1 INDIVIDUATION 
INDEPENDENCE 
ATTAINMENT 


DESCRIPTION 

The 19/1* Karmic Debt developed from the abuse ity to act on his own. He is unhappy with his 
of power in a past life—acting in a completely self- dependent nature, but finds solace by blaming the 
centered manner, blind to everything except a environment or other people for his inability to 
selfish fulfillment of one's own desires. The 1 and 9 stand on his own two feet, 
behind the 1 indicate the self-centered (negative 1) j n this life, the subject will continue to meet with 
misused ambitions (negative 9) manifested in a substantial difficulties unless (1) he can look past 
previous life. bis own needs to the needs of others, OR (2) he 

The 19/1 energy tends to exhibit the traits of the can work toward independence no matter what 
negative 1 in one of two extreme directions, forces are tending to keep him weak and depen- 
(1) The subject may be completely immersed in dent. Awareness of the Karmic Debt will produce 
his own concerns and may have great difficulty clarity about one’s own needs, others’ needs and 
becoming aware of others' needs. He often undoes the relation between them. If, instead, the subject 
himself because of his inability to realistically see continues to be (1) egotistical, dominating and 
himself in relation to others. He is constantly sur- aggressive, OR (2) lazy, fearful and servile, the 
prised by others’ negative reactions to his problems will be magnified, 
endeavors. OR (2) The subject displays an inabil- 


IN THE LIFE PATH 

Although the subject can see the opportunities, the misapplied energies, often exposed as the 
path is beset with obstacles, many of his own mak- dominating, selfish person he is. 
m S- If, instead, the subject is struggling with 

If the subject confuses independence and self- dependence, he will find himself constantly sad- 
centeredness, he will find that his egotistical died with strong pressures keeping him from 
approach limits his awareness of the environment, breaking free. He will probably waste much time 
His actions, commenced with positive ends in and energy because of his inability to read the 
sight, will often updo the very things he hoped to realities of the environment and use them to his ad- 
accomplish, leaving him further behind than when vantage, 
he started. He will find himself trapped by his own 


IN THE EXPRESSION 

The subject will probably have difficulty express¬ 
ing his talents to his advantage. His dominating, 
self-centered approach may turn others off so that 


IN THE SOUL URGE 

The strong motivational force of the subject’s inner weaknesses, no matter how he attempts to hide 
desires will be difficult to fulfill. Others will read them. His innermost secrets may be exposed to his 
his self-centered ways or his dependent disadvantage. 


his capabilities are downgraded, OR, his weak, 
dependent ways will make it difficult for others to 
view and appreciate his abilities. 



The 2 page and 3 page of this chart are not 
applicable and are omitted. 





THE KARMIC DEBT 


309 


LIMITATION 
ORDER 
SERVICE 

DESCRIPTION 

The 13/4 Karmic Debt developed from a lack of dicaments in which he feels trapped, 
application to work requiring accomplishment in a j n t b j s life, the subject will continue to meet with 
past life-dawdling in frivolous activity, sidestep- subst antial difficulties unless he works hard, far 
ping work, burdening others with his rightful harder than his share, a good part of the time. He 
share of work. The 1 and 3 behind the 4 indicate must apply himself to the work at hand, be aware 
the self-centered (negative 1), frivolous and super- of the larger picture while still completing all the 
ficial ways (negative 3) manifested in a previous details. He has to accept the stringent limitations 
“ e ' produced by his inordinate work load. Awareness 

The 13/4 tends to exhibit the traits of the negative of the Karmic Debt will stay the subject from look- 
4. His approach is rigid, obstinate, dogmatic, ing for easier directions. This awareness can aid in 
Although the subject feels limited, restricted, finding constructive paths for development, 
boxed in on all sides, he usually rationalizes his though these paths, too, will demand much in the 
situation. He finds it extremely difficult to change way of work. If, instead, the subject chooses to be 
his course to a more productive direction. When he lazy, indifferent, negative or involved with trivia, 
complains about the limitations he feels, he the problems will be magnified, 
accepts little of the responsibility for the pre- 


IN THE LIFE PATH 

The subject will find his opportunities con- pear to the subject. More likely, the limitations are 
siderably limiting. No matter his abilities or produced or reinforced by the subject’s unbending 
motivation, he will seem to keep running into views coupled with his lack of constructive 
stone walls, boxed in with few acceptable options, adaptability. 

The opportunities may be as restrictive as they ap- 


IN THE EXPRESSION 

The subject pursues his abilities doggedly in a this drive is likely to be negated by the limitations 
rigid, one-track direction. The intensity of his of his vision, 
drive may work to his advantage, but the effect of 


IN THE SOUL URGE 

The subject is discontent with the limitations im- looking for easier directions to follow, and though 
posed by his significant work load. He often ac- few easier paths appear, he continues a frustrating 
complishes the work at hand but receives little search for them, 
satisfaction from his achievement. He is constantly 











310 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 7 


5 CONSTRUCTIVE FREEDOM 


DESCRIPTION 

to physical sensations—may overindulge in eating, 
sensuality, liquor, drugs. He craves the new and 
exciting with little sense of proportion. 

In this life, the subject will continue to meet with 
substantial difficulties unless (1) he learns to profit 
from his experiences instead of repeating mistakes, 
and (2) he curbs his excessive appetite for physical 
stimulation. The difficulties encountered may take 
the form of delay or loss. Awareness of the Karmic 
Debt will allow a more constructive use of per¬ 
sonal freedom. If, instead, the subject continues to 
be restless, impatient and scattering, the problems 
will be magnified. 


IN THE LIFE PATH 

The subject must learn the lesson of change—to Instead of appreciating the beauties which enter 
begin and nurture an interest or relation, to ex- and leave the life, the subject may be beset with 
perience it in full bloom, to detach from it when it disappointment at losses which are either beyond 
is completed. This will tend to be a difficult lesson, his control or caused by his lack of awareness. 


IN THE EXPRESSION 

The subject has an unrealistic or unclear view of regroup his energies to move ahead. The vague, 
the use and limitations of his talents. He is apt to dreamy or impractical nature of his vocational 
meet disappointment in his work, must constantly commitment adds to the difficulties. 

IN THE SOUL URGE 

The subject’s important personal relationships may tions. His impatience and light view of respon- 
be marked by unexpected delays and interrup- sibility add to the problems. 


The 14/5 Karmic Debt developed from a misuse of 
freedom in a past life. The subject may have found 
freedom for himself at others’ expense or in a man¬ 
ner destructive to his interests. He may have 
become overly involved in physical pleasures.to the 
detriment of his development. The 1 and 4 behind 
the 5 indicate the self-centered (negative 1) ir¬ 
responsibility and lack of accountability (negative 
4) manifested in a previous life. 

The 14/5 tends to exhibit the traits of the negative 
5. He is apt to be somewhat erratic, jumping from 
activity to activity—a rolling stone with little sense 
of accomplishment. He tends to pleasures related 



The 6 page of this chart is not applicable and is 
omitted. 


THE KARMIC DEBT 


CHART I 


THE KARMIC DEBT 


ANALYSIS 

UNDERSTANDING 


DESCRIPTION 

The 16/7 Karmic Debt developed from involve¬ 
ment in unusual or illicit love affairs in a past life, 
affairs which caused suffering to others. The 1 and 
6 behind the 7 indicate the self-centered (negative 
1) lack of responsibility and distortion of loving 
feelings (negative 6) manifested in a previous life. 
The 16/7 tends to exhibit the traits of the negative 
7. The subject’s “differentness” is often apparent. 
His manner may make him difficult to approach. 
He is apt to be most concerned with himself— 
possibly self-centered but, at the least, con¬ 
siderably introspective. His growth will follow his 
own leanings—his outward actions may often not 
be what others expect. He may easily disconcert or 
confuse others, even those who feel they know him 


well. Permanent relations—marriage, business 
partnerships, etc.—tend to be difficult to main¬ 
tain. 

In this life, the subject will continue to meet with 
substantial difficulties unless he devotes himself to 
selfless, loving ways, subordinating his own per¬ 
sonal needs. He is apt to’meet with strangely 
manifesting deceptions or losses which often 
appear to be quirks of fate. Awareness of the Kar¬ 
mic Debt will provide an optimistic understanding 
and the ability to keep faith in himself and the 
universe despite adversity. If, instead, the subject 
expresses pride and vanity, the difficulties will be 
magnified. 


IN THE LIFE PATH 

Life is likely to provide the subject with many 
examples of the transient nature of reality. This 
impermanence is apt to be expressed in the mean¬ 
ingful areas in which he would like to exhibit 
positive growth. His status, wealth or power may 
change for the worse. His loving relations may 


shift abruptly. Other matters may end in sudden 
or unusual ways. The subject may be the cause of 
his own undoing, or may be the seeming recipient 
of some curious quirk of fate. Acceptance of im¬ 
permanence will ease the burden. 


IN THE EXPRESSION 

The subject is apt to undo himself in some unex- circumstances. He should not lean too heavily on 
pected way in vocational matters, or may lose his material attributes—his wealth, status and 
what he has gained due to some sudden or unusual power may prove ephemeral. 


IN THE SOUL URGE 

The subject’s faith in his selection of friends and ficult for him to comprehend. Close friends may 
associates is apt to be severely tested. People on cease being close because of some sudden or 
whom he relies may prove unreliable. People he unusual circumstances, 
trusts may act against his interests in a manner dif- 


The 8, 9, 11 and 22 pages of this chart are not 
applicable and are omitted. 













THE INTENSITY TABLE 


313 


See Chapter 12, page 129. 

PRIME INTENSIFIER 

The Prime Intensifier, the Intensity Point appearing in largest 
quantity, indicates strong and obvious characteristics. 


INTENSITY POINT MORE THAN AVERAGE 

An Intensity Point is a modifier with more than an average 
quantity of a number, indicates characteristics of above 
average intensity. 


AVERAGE QUANTITY OF NUMBER 


INTENSITY POINT LESS THAN AVERAGE 

An Intensity Point with less than an average quantity of a 
number indicates characteristics of below average intensity. 


MODIFIED KARMIC LESSON 

A Modified Karmic Lesson is a Karmic Lesson in which the 
Karmic Lesson number also appears as a core element. 


KARMIC LESSON 

A Karmic Lesson is a modifier indicating potential weaknesses, 
difficulties or obstacles because the modifier energy has not 
been experienced in past lives. 



314 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 8 


CHART Q -a INDIVIDUATION 

C% I INDEPENDENCE 

INTENSE TABLE 1 ATTAINMENT 


PRIME INTENSIFIER 

Important to follow own bent and get needs met. sultant frustration is likely to be among the most 
If individual has difficulty getting needs met, pos- obvious strong traits, 
sibly because of conflict of core numbers, the re- 

INTENSITY POINT MORE THAN AVERAGE 


Five or more: 

• Self centeredness and/or domination likely to 
be very strong and block possibilities for 
growth. 

Four: 

• Self-centered. Own interests are strong and 
must be satisfied. 

• Lack of flexibility and adaptability. Must do 
things own way. 

• Tends to control and dominate, but the domin- 

AVERAGE QUANTITY OF NUMBER 

THREE l’S 

INTENSITY POINT LESS THAN AVERAGE 

• Still learning to be independent. Lacks consis¬ 
tent motivation to follow ambitions. Often 
makes excuses for lower position or lack of 
direction, or rationalizes the difficulties 
encountered. 

MODIFIED KARMIC LESSON 


One or two: 

• Lack of confidence in own abilities makes it 
difficult to promote self. Has difficulty stand¬ 
ing up for own rights against others’ wills, 
often feels put down by authority. 


ation usually offends others and works against 
the individual’s best interests. Sometimes, if 
other numbers indicate, domination is accom¬ 
plished by being weak and helpless and needing 
aid from others. 

• Exhibits much courage, often in face of great 
difficulties. 

• Potential to use original ideas and leadership 
abilities for positive ends likely to be stifled by 
self-centered lack of awareness. 


• Still learning to be independent. Lacks consis¬ 
tent motivation to follow ambitions. Often 
makes excuses for lower position or lack of 
direction, or rationalizes the difficulties 
encountered. 


KARMIC LESSON 


• Lack of confidence in own abilities makes it 
difficult to promote self. Has difficulty stand- 
ind up for own rights against others’ wills, 
often feels put down by authority. 


In past lives, the subject showed a lack of indepen¬ 
dence, confidence and ambition. 

These qualities will play an important part in the 
subject’s life. He will find himself in situations 
where he must be able to express his independence 
or be overwhelmed by others’ dominating ways. 
He must learn to make decisions for himself or fall 
victim to others’ decisions. He must develop his 
own ambition as a positive force for his develop¬ 
ment. 


This Karmic Lesson is extremely rare and, when 
found, indicates a significant coloration of the 
core. Those people with this lesson usually have 
little faith in their own powers, look to others for 
direction, are pressured by others’ decisions 
because of their own difficulty and/or fear in 
making decisions. They have great difficulty pro¬ 
moting their own capabilities. Life is apt to be try¬ 
ing until they accept the necessity of standing on 
their own feet. 







THE INTENSITY TABLE 


315 


CHART I 


INTENSITY TABLE 


RELATION 

COOPERATION 


PRIME INTENSIFIER 

• Extremely considerate, helpful, friendly. These 
are likely to be among most obvious strong 
traits. 


Very sensitive to others’ needs. 


INTENSITY POINT MORE THAN AVERAGE 


Four or more: 

• Feels considerate, helpful and friendly. Al¬ 
though manifesting, these traits tend to be 
negated by difficulties in distinguishing the best 
way to help. Good efforts often go to waste. 

• Extremely sensitive. Often hurt by what they 
perceive to be others’ insensitivity. The sen¬ 
sitivity may be emotionally and/or mentally 
draining on family and friends. 

• Feelings of subservience, inferiority or fear of 
others may strongly mark lives. 

• Very fine with detail work. May get so in¬ 
volved with detail that sight of the larger pic¬ 
ture is lost. 

• Appreciation of the arts. 


• Emotional. 

Two or three: 

• Most considerate of others. Helpful, cooper¬ 
ative and friendly. Expresses a tactful, diplo¬ 
matic manner in most situations. 

• Very sensitive. As a child and young adult, apt 
to be shy and retiring. 

• Must work to resolve: 

Feelings of subservience, OR 
Feelings of inferiority, OR 
Inner fear of others. 

• Good with details. 

• Appreciation of the arts. 

• Emotional. 


AVERAGE QUANTITY OF NUMBER 

ONE 2 


INTENSITY POINT LESS THAN AVERAGE 


See Karmic Lesson or Modified Karmic Lesson 
below. 


MODIFIED KARMIC LESSON 

The subject will find himself in situations where He is likely to have these traits developed so that 
sensitivity, consideration, diplomacy and concern they stand him in good stead, 
with detail are necessary for positive development. 

KARMIC LESSON 

In past lives, the subject showed a lack of sensiti- presented so that the details tend to obscure the 
vity and consideration for others, a lack of aware- larger picture. 

ness of details. Most people with this Karmic Lesson are born 

Sensitivity, consideration and detail work will with a great deal of sensitivity and consideration 

play an important part in the life. The subject will as well as a sense of the importance of detail, 

find himself in situations where a sensitive nature Those lacking the 2 who are insensitive, incon- 

and a diplomatic manner ■ are imperative for siderate and unwilling to be bothered with detail 

positive development. His environment will in- work are likely to meet with difficulties until they 

elude substantial work involved with detail, often choose to learn the lesson. 






316 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 8 


3 EXPRESSION 
JOY OF LIVING 


PRIME INTENSIFIER \ 

Artistic bent, imaginative approach and/or verbal £ 

ability are likely to be among most obvious strong l 

traits. ‘ 


CHARTg 
INTENSITY TABLE 



INTENSITY POINT MORE THAN AVERAGE 

Four or more: • May scatter energies or act immoderately ■■ 

• Strong indication of artistic talent—music, art, against own best interests. > 

writing, etc. Three: ' 

• Excellent imagination. • Artistic talent—music, art, writing, etc. i 

• Strong capability with words—excellent verbal • Imaginative. it- 

and/or written self-expression. • Good verbal and/or written capabilities. : 

• Strong self-interest, possibly self-centered, even • \| an y interests may make it difficult to concen- | 

selfish. trate to support own best interests. | 


AVERAGE QUANTITY OF NUMBER 1 

ONE or TWO 3’s j 


INTENSITY POINT LESS THAN AVERAGE J 

Zero: £ 

See Karmic Lesson or Modified Karmic Lesson 
below. 


MODIFIED KARMIC LESSON | 

Problems with expression and social encounters good at selling himself. It’s important for this sub- % 

are likely to occur. He will have to work to express ject to work to build his confidence so that he can ; 

his feelings and will tend to be somewhat uncom- express himself with greater facility. J 

fortable in social situations. He probably isn’t too S 


KARMIC LESSON 

In past lives, the subject showed little concern 
with expressing himself, little joie de vivre. 
Difficulties with expression and problems in social 
encounters will play an important part in the life. 
Usually, the subject will lack confidence. He will 
rarely feel comfortable enough to express his feel¬ 
ings, will tend to be withdrawn or uncomfortable 
in social situations, will have difficulty promoting 
himself. His feelings of inferiority may project to 
others as a defeatist attitude. Unless he gains con¬ 


fidence in himself and improves his expressive | 

abilities, he will find these negative traits blocking > 

his growth. | 

An occasional subject will not lack in confidence £ 

or verbal ability, but the manner of expression l 

—aggressive, over-dramatic or insensitive—will jj 

prove a stumbling block. This subject may well ex- § 
press his delight in the joy of living in a manner | 
that is offensive—sometimes in a manner that puts 
pressure on others. 








THE INTENSITY TABLE 


317 


CHART 

INTENSITY TABLE 


4 LIMITATION 
ORDER 
SERVICE 



PRIME INTENSIFIER 

Practical, organized approach, ability to concen- routine are likely to be among most obvious 
trate and work hard, capability at detail and strong traits. 

j 

.] 

•j 

■1 

INTENSITY POINT MORE THAN AVERAGE 

Four or more: Two or three: 

• Practical, organized approach, ability to con- • Practical approach. * 

centrate and work hard, capability at detail . Very capable at organizing) systematizing. ? 

and routine—these traits are likely to be the '< 

basis for a significant portion of the work ac- * Ablllt y t0 concentrate on work to be done, 

complished. The work may appear to be even if not particularly interested in the work. ; 

menial or below the individual’s apparent • Good at detail and routine work. ■' 

ability, but the subject is likely to be content • Hard worker when necessary. 

or comfortably rationalize the work. . t, , . , . ,, r . , . 1 

• tendency to be stubborn (if confirmed by 

other numbers). | 


AVERAGE QUANTITY OF NUMBER 1 

ONE 4 | 

1 

INTENSITY POINT LESS THAN AVERAGE J 

Zero: 

See Karmic Lesson* or Modified Karmic Lesson f 

below. f 


MODIFIED KARMIC LESSON I 

£ 

Practicality, organization, hard work and concern detail to its completion. He is likely to innately !f 

with detail will play an important part in the sub- understand this lesson because of the 4 in the | 

ject’s life. He will find that he can accomplish core. He can probably concentrate his efforts no $ 

only by starting at the beginning of a task and matter what the seeming limitations. i 

working hard with great care and concern for ?’ 


J 

KARMIC LESSON f 

In past lives, the subject showed a lack of aware- ing no matter what the seeming limitations. J. 

ness of practicality, organization, hard work and If th e individual’s core is strong in 1, 3 or 5 energy, § 

concern with detail. These qualities will play an be ; s likely to think of hard work as a limitation. if 

important part in a subject s life. He’s likely to look for easy ways out to avoid put- ; 

If the individual’s core is strong in 2, 6 or 8 energy, ting forth the required effort. He is apt to be f 

he is likely to innately understand this lesson, severely limited in his growth until he is willing to 

He’ll be willing and able to work long, hard and accept the need for working hard and patiently, 
patiently, concentrating his efforts and continu- f 











318 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 8 


CHART | 


INTENSITY TABLE 


CONSTRUCTIVE FREEDOM 


PRIME INTENSIFIER 

Versatility, resourcefulness, unusual or unconven- phasize 2, 4, 6, these characteristics are likely to be 
tional approach, many interests are likely to be considerably reduced, 
among most obvious traits. If core numbers em- 


INTENSITY POINT MORE THAN AVERAGE 

Seven or more: • Tendency to abandon old ways for new, ex- 

• Extremelv versatile and resourceful. citing avenues. 


Extremely versatile and resourceful. 

Calls attention to self because of unusual or un¬ 
conventional approach. 

Interested in everything. Tends to scatter 
energies. 

Must be free to do things own way. Will not 
allow any interference with personal freedom. 
Nervous temperament. Often acts impulsively. 


Many interests, possibly lack of application due 
to restless nature. 

Versatile and resourceful. 

Unusual or unconventional approach. 

Strong interest in being free may emphasize 
own self-centered needs. 

Actions may stem from impulsive nature. 


AVERAGE QUANTITY OF NUMBER 

THREE, FOUR or FIVE 5’s 


INTENSITY POINT LESS THAN AVERAGE 


One, two: 

• Lack of adaptability. 

• Limited understanding of others due to inabili¬ 
ty to benefit from experience. Probably ap¬ 
proaches situations with mind made up and 
doesn’t appreciate lessons to be learned from 


situations encountered. 

Limits experience available because of fears, 
insecurities or rigid approach. 

Stays with situations or people long after pro¬ 
ductiveness has been exhausted. 


MODIFIED KARMIC LESSON 

• Lack of adaptability. 

• Limited understanding of others due to inabili¬ 
ty to benefit from experience. Probably ap¬ 
proaches situations with mind made up and 
doesn’t appreciate lessons to be learned from 


situations encountered. 

Limits experience available because of fears, 
insecurities or rigid approach. 

Stays with situations or people long after pro¬ 
ductiveness has been exhausted. 


KARMIC LESSON 

In past lives, the subject showed a lack of 
awareness of the uses of freedom and change. 
These qualities play an important part in the sub¬ 
ject’s life. 

His life is likely to have significant change and 
uncertainty and he must learn to adapt and deal 
with situations with versatility. He probably has 


little understanding or tolerance of others’ reac¬ 
tions because he has shown little deep interest in 
others, has kept himself from profiting from ex¬ 
perience and has tended to keep away from new 
experiences which might prove beneficial. 

This Karmic Lesson is extremely rare and, when 
found, indicates a significant coloration of the 






I 


THE INTENSTYTABLE 


CHARTg 
INTENSITY TABLE 


6 BALANCE 

RESPONSIBILITY 


PRIME INTENSIFIER 

Strong sense of responsibility, ability to balance 
situations and help others are likely to be among 
most obvious strong traits. 


319 


) 


ft 

g 


INTENSITY POINT MORE THAN AVERAGE 

Four or more: 

• Very strong sense of responsibility. May ac¬ 
cept responsibilities even to own detriment. 

• Helps others by balancing situations to pro¬ 
duce harmony or by helping with others’ 
responsibilities. May accept far more than own 
share of responsibility with little complaint. 

• Rigid standards, not easily changed. 

• Very strong opinions, not easily changed. 


AVERAGE QUANTITY OF NUMBER 

ONE or TWO 6’s 


• Significant artistic ability. 

Three: 

• Willing to assume much responsibility. 

• Helps others by balancing situations to pro¬ 
duce harmony or by helping with others’ 
responsibilities. 

• Strong ideals. 

• Strong opinions. 


INTENSITY POINT LESS THAN AVERAGE 

Zero: 

■ ■ ■ •- • • (' . > 

See Karmic Lesson or Modified Karmic Lesson 
below. 


MODIFIED KARMIC LESSON 

Responsibility will play an important part in the 
life. Subject is likely to have much responsibility 
to carry but be willing and able to accept. He is 
likely to understand that family and friends will 
depend on him for support, and will be there 
when needed. 


KARMIC LESSON 

In past lives, the subject showed a lack of 
awareness of duties and responsibilities. 

Responsibility will play an important part in the 
life. The subject is likely to have much respon¬ 
sibility to carry. He is likely to feel the pressure of 
caring for others who cannot or will not care for 
themselves. People will sense that he can support 
a heavier load than others and will lean on him or 
depend on him much more than he might prefer. 
Family and friends, instead of helping with 


responsibility are apt, rather, to be the primary 
burden. The subject must learn, all on his own, 
how to comfortably deal with the responsibility 
that is his. 

The subject will find much work is required to 
succeed in marriage (and parenthood). Much ef¬ 
fort in balancing and serving others is necessary. 
Unless the individual is willing and able to learn 
this, marriage is likely to falter. 


He will be capable of balancing situations and 
serving others, and will show these traits strongly 
in marriage and parenting situations where these 
abilities are likely to be necessary to keep affairs 
running smoothly. 













320 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 8 


CHART) 


INTENSITY TABLE 


ANALYSIS 

UNDERSTANDING 


PRIME INTENSIFIER 


Excellent mind, scientific or mathematical abilities 
and unusual viewpoint likely to be among most 
obvious strong traits. 


INTENSITY POINT MORE THAN AVERAGE 


Two or more: 

• Fine mind, capable of analysis, research. 

• Suppresses feelings to a large extent. 

• Technical ability, scientific or mathematical 
talents. 


May want to search for and understand fun¬ 
damentals, possibly in metaphysical studies. 
Unusual viewpoint or out-of-the-ordinary ideas. 


AVERAGE QUANTITY OF NUMBER 

ZERO or ONE 7 


INTENSITY POINT LESS THAN AVERAGE 

Zero: 

See Karmic Lesson or Modified Karmic Lesson 
below. 


MODIFIED KARMIC LESSON 

An appreciation of the non-material world will spiritual values may bring him deep and lasting 
play an important part in the subject’s life. He’s peace, 
likely to understand that increasing faith in 


KARMIC LESSON 

In past lives, the subject showed a lack of aware- mon. The subject will have to learn an apprecia- 
ness of the inner life, refusal to study or under- tion of the non-material world. Although faith in 
stand the deeper spiritual values. spiritual values may be a key to growth, it’s likely 

Since we live in an age in which little regard is t0 interest to the individual, 

placed on spiritual values, this lesson is very com- 




! 


THE INTENSITY TABLE 


8 


PRIME INTENSIFIER 

Rare. 


CHARTg 
INTENSITY TABLE 


Interest in money, status, power are likely to be 
among most obvious traits. These interests may 
lead to an unbalanced emphasis on material mat¬ 
ters. 


MATERIAL SATISFACTION 


321 


-! 

; j 

INTENSITY POINT MORE THAN AVERAGE j 

Two or more: • Probably suppresses a good deal of feelings in 

• Innate business ability may lead to success in areas other than business. .. 

commercial fields. • May place too much stress on personal J 

• Innate understanding of how to take an idea achievement, may lead to exclusion of other 

and make it into a profitable business. interests or lack of concern for others needs. ,5 

• Balanced practical judgement, particularly in * ma ke difficulties for self because of need '■ 

business matters. Can approach business af- t0 achieve money, status, power. No matter 3 

fairs without being carried away with feelings. ^ow muc h * s achieved, may still feel frustrated 

in not achieving more. s i 

1 

AVERAGE QUANTITY OF NUMBER ! 

ONE 8 


INTENSITY POINT LESS THAN AVERAGE 

- - ■• r ‘ •» ■ | 

Zero: 1 

See Karmic Lesson or Modified Karmic Lesson ;i 

below. S 

X 

i 

MODIFIED KARMIC LESSON | 

A slightly disbalanced perspective on the relation understands how to deal with money and material ;? 

of money to his life is likely to cause difficulties matters with ease, he may feel uncomfortable jf 

in money matters which may well affect other pressures related to financial dependence or over- il 

areas of the individual’s life. Until the subject balanced striving for attainment. £ 

i 

1 

i 

! 

i_ 

i 

KARMIC LESSON f 

sy 

In past lives, the subject showed a lack of pendent (as, for instance, a long-time wife with no | 

awareness of the practical necessities of life in- earning capability desiring a divorce.) | 

eluding the need to earn and use money. I n this life, the individual must learn to handle his 

In this life, his attitude toward money is likely to own material affairs and make reasonable and 5 

play an important part. He must learn to use and practical judgements. Until the subject learns | 

understand money so that a lack of understanding how to do this with ease, he will feel significantly | 

or misuse does not cause unnecessary problems, limited in his ability to find anything approaching ) 

Often, a lack of awareness about the value of complete satisfaction with himself. 5 

money may severely affect the ability to be inde- 


I 








322 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 8 


CHART) 


INTENSITY TABLE 


SELFLESSNESS 

HUMANITARIANISM 



INTENSITY POINT LESS THAN AVERAGE 

One: 

• Little awareness of others’ feelings. 

• Little sympathy or compassion shown. 

• Somewhat restricted point of view. 


MODIFIED KARMIC LESSON 


Although a feeling and aware person, the subject cerned with others’ needs. Until subject becomes 
is likely to have own strong needs which tend to more selfless than self-centered, he is likely to be 
make him self-centered and somewhat uncon- subject to emotional upsets. 


KARMIC LESSON 

In past lives, the subject showed little concern for 
others. 

In this life, the subject is likely to be self-centered 
and unaware of or repressing his own feelings. He 
will probably be subjected to much in the way of 


emotional upsets, disappointments, and separa¬ 
tions until he learns to be concerned with 
others—to show compassion and love, to clearly 
express his feelings and respond to others’ feel¬ 
ings. This rare lesson indicates a significant 
coloration of the core. 








THE INTENSITY TABLE 


323 


11 


CHART | 


INTENSITY TABLE 


PRIME INTENSIFIER 

Not applicable 


INTENSITY POINT MORE THAN AVERAGE 

Not applicable 


ILLUMINATION 


AVERAGE QUANTITY OF NUMBER 

Not applicable 


INTENSITY POINT LESS THAN AVERAGE 

Not applicable 



KARMIC DEBT 

Not applicable 







324 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 8 


CHART « OO 

INTENSIFY TABLE | ** MASTER BUILDER 

PRIME INTENSIFIER 

Not applicable 




INTENSITY POINT MORE THAN AVERAGE 

Not applicable 


AVERAGE QUANTITY OF NUMBER 

Not applicable 


INTENSITY POINT LESS THAN AVERAGE 

- •! ‘ > 

Not applicable 




MODIFIED KARMIC DEBT 

Not applicable 




KARMIC DEBT 

Not applicable 














J 


326 


R E F E11 £ ,V C E CHART NUMB £ li !) 


CHART 


THE CHALLENGE/THE GROWTH NUMBER 











THE CHALLENGE! THE GROWTH NUMBER 


327 


[ f 

0 (Zero) 


CHALLENGE CHALLENGE 

The Challenge is an obstacle In the early years, the individual is likely to have 

encountered in the early years difficulty acting on his preferences. He is perfectly 

of life, at least, due to the em- capable of analyzing a situation, realistically com- 

phasis placed on the negative paring possible solutions. Having sorted out alter- 

extreme of the potential. natives, the individual has difficulty taking the 

See Chapter 14, page 149. requisite action. He’s likely to have all sorts of ex¬ 

cuses or rationalizations, but he effectively hinders 
his own development. 

The individual must simply learn to have faith in 
himself—having indicated a preference, he must 
act. With a little practice, he’s likely to find that 
taking action on his preference will prove as bene¬ 
ficial as he had hoped. Eventually, given enough 
practice, he can analyze, make a choice, then act 
with ease and comfort. 


GROWTH NUMBER . GROWTH NUMBER 

. ..r . > 

The Growth Number de- Not applicable 

scribes the energy which will 

illuminate the essence of the 

experiences and help expand a 

person’s development. 

See Chapter 15, page 153. 







328 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 9 

CHARTQ 

CHALLENGE/GROWTH NO 

CHALLENGE 

In the early years, the individual is likely to feel dominated by 
others with strong influence, probably parents or others on 
whom he is dependent. He’s apt to feel that his desires are not be¬ 
ing met, that his needs are being opposed. To feel less restricted, 
he may try to please everyone, but he’ll find little satisfaction in 
that endeavor. He’ll probably end up displeased himself, as well 
as confused and resentful. 

The individual must learn to take stock of a situation (taking 
others’ needs into account as well as his own), then, using the 
courage of his convictions, move forward in the direction of his 
choice. He must be careful not to end up dominating others, but 
he must remain watchful not to be dominated himself. 


GROWTH NUMBER 

The individual must act in an independent manner, but must not 
confuse independence with dominance. He has to remember that 
others’ needs must be taken into account. He shouldn’t give in to 
restrictive or limiting forces tending to keep him dependent, par¬ 
ticularly in the younger years. 

The individual should express his original ideas in appropriate 
circumstances. Shyness, fear of rejection or intimidation, 
especially in youth and young adulthood may make the expres¬ 
sion of these ideas difficult. Vital opportunities may be lost 
because of the individual’s reticence. 

He should fill a leadership role when it is offered, although his 
leadership style may not be in the expected or commonly ac¬ 
cepted mode. 


1 INDIVIDUATION 
INDEPENDENCE 
ATTAINMENT 





THE CHALLENGE/THE GROWTH NUMBER 


329 


9 


CHART, 
CHALLENGE/GROWTH NO, 



RELATION 

COOPERATION 


CHALLENGE 

In the early years, the individual is likely to be extremely sen¬ 
sitive—he’s likely to be fearful, timid, lacking self-confidence, 
brimming with feeling. It may be difficult for him to work with 
others because he’s so afraid of being hurt by an unkind word or 
action or, worse yet, by being ignored. He’s apt to be constantly 
worried about others opinions of him. 

He’s using his sensitivity with negative emphasis. His positive 
sensitivity can be an important strength, allowing him to be 
acutely aware of so much of which others have little inkling, to 
make significant connections between awarenesses which others 
can barely fathom. He must learn that his extreme powers of 
discrimination do not make him weak and inferior—but rather 
strong and superior. 





GROWTH NUMRER 

- > The individual must promote harmony, even if the effort tends 

to make his own contribution less visible. He shouldn’t be so shy 
or self-effacing that his efforts go unnoticed. There’s a very fine 
balance here that, particularly in the younger years, may be dif¬ 
ficult to achieve. 

The individual should practice cooperation and adaptability. He 
should try to take care of others’ needs at the same time he is 
meeting his own. He should try to be as sensitive as possible to 
the subtle, even unspoken, nuances of those around him. 

He should express friendship and affection openly and directly. 
Fear of rejection may, especially at first, make this expression 
difficult, but the acknowledgement of his feelings by others may 
prove to be a vital link in his personal development. 







330 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 9 


[ CHARTQ 
CHALLENGE/GROWTH NO. 

CHALLENGE 

In the early years, the individual is likely to be hiding his 
creativity as well as his social abilities. He’s apt to feel shy, have 
difficulty expressing himself well, be fearful of criticism. He’s 
likely to find it easier to hide in the background at social af¬ 
fairs—he may feel uncomfortable making conversation or being 
himself. He probably does little to develop his potential gift 
with words. 

He’s expressing himself with negative emphasis. The positive ex¬ 
pression he can develop can be an important strength. He must 
develop his capability to get on well with others—to be a good 
conversationalist, to express his optimism and enthusiasm, to 
grace any social affair. His creative abilities—possibly with 
words; writing, singing, acting—can be developed to bring 
pleasure to others as well as personal satisfaction. 


GROWTH NUMBER 

> The individual must approach his experiences with optimism and 
enthusiasm. His input may vitalize an endeavor with productive 
excitement. 

He should express his creativity. Fear of rejection may make this 
expression difficult, particularly when he’s expressing in unique 
or daring ways. He has to learn to offer his creative input and 
then let others learn to deal with it. He should express his delight 
in people and social activities openly and warmly. 





THE CHALLENGE/THE GROWTH NUMBER 


331 


CHARTQ 

CHALLENGE/GROWTH NO. 

CHALLENGE 

In the early years, the individual is likely to have difficulty ac¬ 
complishing his work effectively. He may dislike work, avoid it 
I if possible, or approach it in careless fashion, with little concen¬ 

tration or sense of practicality. Or he may approach work in a 
rigid manner, working hard but with little awareness of the im¬ 
plications of the job at hand, possibly unable or unwilling to see 
the forest for the trees. 

j He’s expressing himself with negative emphasis. His positive 

J potential, his ability to work and produce can be an important 

i strength. He must develop his capacity to work hard and well, to 

accomplish his tasks with patience, understanding, practicality, 
to be aware of the details involved and to work within the 
parameters of a given schedule. 


GROWTH NUMBER 

r .■» The individual must work within the limitations he finds, in a 
positive manner. He must not succumb to frustration. He has to 
be careful not to be trapped because of a plodding manner or a 
narrow path. Learning to accept limitations is far different 
than falling victim to limitations, but the difference may be 
difficult to see at times. He must learn when the limitations can 
be changed rather than accepted. 

He should try to be systematic and orderly, to organize with a 
strong awareness of the practical. The individual should be of 
service to others, though much hard work and patience may be 
required. He should concentrate on the satisfaction of the ser¬ 
vice rather than the difficulty of the work. 





332 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 9 


CHART! 


CHALLENGE/GROWTH NO. 


CONSTRUCTIVE FREEDOM 


CHALLENGE 


In the early years, the individual is likely to have difficulty tak¬ 
ing full advantage of his opportunities. He’s apt to be restless, 
impatient, impulsive, even erratic. He’s likely to tire quickly of 
one opportunity, move on to the next as soon as it appears. In 
matters involving physical pleasures such as eating, sex, drink 
or drugs, he may limit his potential with a poor sense of propor¬ 
tion or timing. His need for security is likely to be poorly ful¬ 
filled by continuing to cling to some situations long after the 
promise has been developed. 

He’s using his freedom, his opportunities to expand, with 
negative emphasis. He must learn to pick and choose among 
these opportunities, develop the best of these in a responsible 
manner, move on only after he’s accomplished what he set out to 
do. He must learn to curb his restlessness in the interest of 
achieving the lasting satisfactions he needs. 


GROWTH NUMBER 

■ r > The individual must expand his opportunities with his versatility 
and adaptability without running himself ragged and ac¬ 
complishing little. He shouldn’t jump erratically from exciting 
experience to exciting experience—he should use these oppor¬ 
tunities for excitement along with learning. He should use his 
time and energy wisely—he shouldn’t start unless he intends to 
proceed, shouldn’t stick to something after the experience is 
completed, shouldn’t jump to the new only because it’s the 
new. 

The individual should explore physical pleasures—eating, sex, 
drinking, drugs—as part of a balanced life, not as ends in 
themselves. 



THE CHALLENCE/THE GROWTH NUMBER 


333 



CHALLENGE 

j In the early years, the individual is likely to have difficulty 

j because of his insistence on his high standards. He’s apt to ap- 

I pear authoritarian, intolerant, self-righteous. He’s probably 

j unhappy because he feels that no one measures up to his superior 

i principles or shows any appreciation of his struggles to uplift 

| others. 

| He’s using his potential for balancing affairs with negative em- 

j phasis. He must, instead, develop his potentially superior skill at 

harmonizing situations. He must learn that his diplomatic ap¬ 
proach will only be appreciated if others feel that their needs 
are met, their desires understood, their points of view re- 
.! spected. He must learn to allow others to set their own pace, 

j make their own rules. He must learn to express his uncondi- 

j tional love and acceptance. 

I 


GROWTH NUMBER 

The individual must help where help is needed. He should learn 
’ to accept the responsibilities he finds and carry through with 
understanding and poise. He should learn to adjust and balance 
the forces he finds. 

He should contribute his efforts to make his home a beautiful, 
protected, stable and helping environment. 

He must learn to give out friendship, affection and love and 
gracefully accept others’ friendship, affection and love in return. 






334 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 9 


7 ANALYSIS 

UNDERSTANDING 


CHALLENGE 

In the early years, the individual is likely to have difficulty 
because of his discomfort with the situations he finds, situations 
aggravated by his reserved attitude and unexpressed feelings. 
He’s likely to feel hopeless about bettering his situation, unable 
to act to relieve or change matters. He’s probably a complainer, 
often extremely critical, with little or nothing to offer in the way 
of help. 

He’s using his potential for discrimination with negative em¬ 
phasis. He must study to find the nature of wisdom. He must 
learn to share his knowledge and sense of discrimination with 
open feelings, to have faith in his abilities (rather than being 
afraid to use them), to respond helpfully when difficulties arise. 
He must learn to approach others without reserve or aloofness. 


CHARTg 

CHALLENGE/GROWTH NO. 


GROWTH NUMBER 

The individual should retire into his very depths to find faith and 
peace. Peace will come from within—it will have little to do with 
money or material matters. 

He must learn to trust his intuition to lead in directions of 
growth. He must wait, when necessary, with patience. He 
should learn the pleasure of spending time alone—studying, 
meditating, searching for wisdom and hidden truths. 







THE CHALLENGEITHE GROWTH NUMBER 


335 


9 


CHART 
CHALLENGE/GROWTH NO. 


8 


MATERIAL SATISFACTION 


CHALLENGE 


In the early years, the individual is likely to assume that satis- | 

faction can only be gained and safeguarded by adequate material j? 

accumulation. There’s likely to be considerable effort exerted to 1 

attain money, status and power, sometimes to the exclusion of 
almost all else. 

He’s using his concern with material matters with negative em- ' 

phasis. He must learn to use his ability to gain money, status i 

and power with a sense of proportion and an awareness of the 
relation of material affairs to other matters. He must learn to '? 

deal with the material world in a comfortable manner. Sr 


GROWTH NUMBER 

The individual should aim for success with balance in the 
* material world. He should treat the achievement of money, 
status and power as a means to the end of achieving under¬ 
standing and pleasure. He should recognize that money, status 
and power are only one means of achieving this end, but they 
are significant means and should not be ignored. 

The individual must learn how to accumulate money, how to 
handle money, how to spend money. He should learn to avoid 
the pressure of needing more money than is comfortably avail¬ 
able. 





336 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 9 




THE CHALLENGE/THE GROWTH NUMBER 


337 


9 


CHART 

! 

ICHALLENGE/GROWTH NO. 


11 ILLUMINATION 


CHALLENGE 


j 

Not applicable l 


GROWTH NUMBER 

The individual must learn to develop his intuition to pick up ad¬ 
ded awarenesses of the spiritual (non-material) world. He should 
visualize himself as a channel of special awareness. 

He should spread his understandings with humility and inspire 
others by his example, based on the purity of his learning of the 
deepest spiritual truths. He should learn to communicate about 
these spiritual matters in a world primarily interested in material 
affairs, and should proceed despite the seeming discouragements. 







338 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 9 



GROWTH NUMBER 


The individual must learn to focus his high-level insights to 
develop significant material projects. The power to achieve im¬ 
portant goals may grow from his practical yet idealistic phi¬ 
losophy along with his sincere desire to benefit others. 





















THE MATURITY NUMBER 


341 


See Chapter 16, page 157. 


MATURITY NUMBER WITH STRONG SIMILAR ENERGY 

When the Maturity Number, a sub-lesson introduced at matur¬ 
ity, is the same as a core element, or when the Maturity 
Number has the same modifier number as an Intensity Point or 
Karmic Lesson, the Maturity Number describes the re- 
evaluation of a lesson or sub-lesson on which the individual has 
been working in the years prior to maturity. 










342 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 10 


I 



INDIVIDUATION 

INDEPENDENCE 

ATTAINMENT 


MATURITY NUMBER WITH STRONG SIMILAR ENERGY 


At maturity, there’s likely to be a reevaluation of the meaning of in¬ 
dependence in the subject’s life. This mid-life appraisal is apt to focus on 
whether the individual’s ability to stand on his own two feet 

• has been satisfactorily achieved or whether he still feels dependent, OR 

• has been achieved by taking care of his own needs, causing a lack of 
closeness with others, OR 

• has been achieved by domination of others. 

He’ll also probably assess whether the independence he sought and, at least to 
some extent, achieved has enabled him to move on to leadership roles along 
with a sense of attainment of meaningful ends. 

At this time in the life, the individual is likely to revise at least some attitudes 
and actions in regard to independence, in order to achieve a more comfortable 
relation with others. 


MATURITY NUMBER WITH NO STRONG SIMILAR ENERGY 

At maturity, a new sub-lesson is introduced: learning the meaning of in¬ 
dependence. Since the 1 energy hasn’t been a factor in the life up to this time, 
it’s likely that there have been few problems relating to independence. The in¬ 
dividual was probably satisfied or disinterested in his relation with others 
relative to dependence/independence. At maturity, there’s apt to be a shift in 
the life, bringing problems of independence to center stage. This shift may be 
due to one of the following: 

• a financial arrangement which allowed him to be independent may end 
or change, OR 

• a spouse who supported him/her (financially or emotionally) may move 
out of the life through separation or death, or may not be able to con¬ 
tinue the support because of sickness or financial reversal, OR 

• an awareness of women’s increased freedom (or children growing up) 
may change a woman’s view of herself as well as her role in relation to 
her husband, OR 

• a parent (or child) who previously led his/her own life may, because of 
illness, death or financial reversal become dependent on him. 

At this time in the life, the individual is likely to face some decisions about at¬ 
titudes and actions in regard to dependence/independence in order to gain 
more control of his own life. 


19/1 KARMIC MATURITY NUMBER 

The subject is likely to find obstacles in his path due to: 

• his confusion of independence with self-centeredness, OR 

• strong pressures keeping him from breaking out of a dependent situation 
in which he is involved. 







THE MATURITY NUMBER 


343 



RELATION 

COOPERATION 


MATURITY NUMBER WITH STRONG SIMILAR ENERGY 


At maturity, there’s likely to be a reevaluation of the satisfactions derived 
from the subject’s sensitivity. This mid-life appraisal is apt to focus on 

• whether the individual has developed so that his strong sensitivity can 
be comfortably used, OR 

• whether the individual has learned how to say and do what he needs 
without feeling his sensitivity compromised, OR 

• whether shyness or uncertainty block him from a full expression of his 
sensitivity. 

At this time in the life, the individual is likely to revise some attitudes and ac¬ 
tions in order to better express his sensitivity and to better receive others' 
friendship and affection as a reward for that expression. 


MATURITY NUMBER WITH NO STRONG SIMILAR ENERGY 

At maturity, a new sub-lesson is introduced: learning the satisfaction of using 
sensitivity. Since the 2 energy hasn’t been a factor in the life up to this time, it’s 
likely that there have been few problems relating to sensitivity. The individual 
probably had little concern about his sensitivity or its expression. At maturity, 
there’s apt to be a shift in the life bringing problems of sensitivity to center 
stage. This shift may be due to one of the following: 

• sensitive treatment by others—family or close friends in par- 

■ r ■ ticul’ar—may make individual aware of the beauty of sensitivity and 

bring on a desire to develop personal sensitivity, OR 

• insensitive treatment of individual by others (or of others by individual) 
may cause significant pain and spark an appraisal leading to a desire to 
better express sensitivity, OR 

• difficulty in receiving any satisfying acknowledgement of sensitivity or 
contributions based on this sensitivity may trigger a desire for more con¬ 
tentment here. 

At this time in the life, the individual is likely to face some decisions about his 
attitudes and actions in order to feel increased fulfillment in the expression 
and acknowledgment of his sensitivity. 

* 

■is 


KARMIC MATURITY NUMBER 

Not applicable 









. 


344 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 10 



EXPRESSION 
JOY OF LIVING 


MATURITY NUMBER WITH STRONG SIMILAR ENERGY 


At maturity, there’s likely to be a reevaluation of how well the subject has 
learned the joy of expression. This mid-life appraisal is apt to focus on 

• whether the individual is comfortable giving of himself openly, warmly, 
spontaneously,- OR 

• whether the individual enjoys himself and is enjoyed by others at social 
gatherings, OR 

• whether the individual enjoys expressing himself artistically and 
creatively. 

At this time in the life, the individual is likely to revise at least some attitudes 
and actions in order to express himself more fully and freely. 


MATURITY NUMBER WITH NO STRONG SIMILAR ENERGY 

At maturity, a new sub-lesson is introduced: learning the joy of expression. 
Since the 3 energy hasn’t been a factor in the life up to this time, it's likely that 
the joy of self-expression has barely been approached. Shyness, too much sen¬ 
sitivity, heavy responsibilities may be some of the rationalizations used to ex¬ 
plain the lack of development in this area. 

At maturity, there’s apt to be a shift in the life, bringing the awareness of the 
lack of self-expression to center stage. This shift may be due to one of the 
— following: 

• the individual may become aware of how little he plays, how little fun 
he has, how rarely he can act and enjoy as he did as a child, OR 

• the individual may become aware of how delightful it can be to asso¬ 
ciate with others expressing optimism, enthusiasm and fun. Comparing 
his own austere ways, he may seek to brighten his life, OR 

• with time on his hands due to illness or loneliness, the individual may 
turn to creative and artistic pursuits which previously frightened or 
bored him. 

At this time in the life, the individual is likely to face some decisions about his 
attitudes and actions in regard to his own self-expression in order to receive 
more satisfaction out of life. 


KARMIC MATURITY NUMBER 

Not applicable 





THE MATURITY NUMBER 


345 



LIMITATION 

ORDER 

SERVICE 


MATURITY NUMBER WITH STRONG SIMILAR ENERGY 


At maturity, there's likely to be a reevaluation of the ability to live with the 
law of limitation. (See chart 2: life path, under 4 Life Path Central Focus) 
This mid-life appraisal is apt to focus on 

• whether the individual has felt restricted and frustrated by the limita¬ 
tions he’s encountered, OR 

• whether the individual has accepted the limitations he's encountered as 
part of the fabric of his life, at least to some extent. 

At this time in the life, the individual is likely to revise at least some attitudes 
and actions in regard to restrictions. He may want to become more aware of 
restrictions which are unknowingly self-imposed, restrictions which cannot 
be changed along with restrictions which can be removed or adjusted for the 
better. 


MATURITY NUMBER WITH NO STRONG SIMILAR ENERGY 


At maturity, a new sub-lesson is introduced: learning to live with the law of - 

limitations. (See chart 2: life path, under 4 Life Path Central Focus) Since ; 

the 4 energy hasn’t been a factor in the life up to this time, it's likely that little 
attention has been paid to restrictions. At maturity, there's apt to be a shift in 
the life, bringing the awareness of limitations to center stage. This shift may ■ 

be due to one of the following: 

• a free and loose approach to life has met with poor results: a broken 
marriage, alienated children, ruined business, lost friends, OR 

• a serious, responsible approach to life, with a consistent struggle to over- v 

come the obstacles, has met with poor results: a broken marriage, 
alienated children, ruined business, lost friends. 

At this time in the life, the individual is likely to face some decisions about atti¬ 
tudes and actions toward restrictions. An awareness of the law of limitation fi ; 

and its practical applications may make an astonishing difference in the ap¬ 
proach to many situations and give the subject the ability to better control his 
own life. 


13/4 KARMIC MATURITY NUMBER 

The subject is likely to find obstacles in his path due to: 

• his rigid, obstinate or dogmatic ways, OR 

• his lack of application to work. He may have more work to do than 
others, but unless he proceeds with it, it becomes an obstacle, OR 

• his inability to satisfactorily take care of the details. 













346 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 10 



CONSTRUCTIVE FREEDOM 


MATURITY NUMBER WITH STRONG SIMILAR ENERGY 


At maturity, there's likely to be a reevaluation of the subject’s constructive use 
of freedom. This mid-life appraisal is apt to focus on 

• whether the individual has been exhilarated (or exhausted or frustrated) 
by the variety, change, unexpected in the life, OR 

• whether the individual has been able to focus his energies so that he's 
been able to grow and develop by adapting to the changes which he so 
often finds. 

At this time in the life, the individual is likely to revise at least some attitudes 
and actions in regard to the constructive use of freedom, so that he can make 
the best use of opportunities as they present themselves without being over¬ 
whelmed bv them. 


MATURITY NUMBER WITH NO STRONG SIMILAR ENERGY 


At maturity, a new sub-lesson is introduced: learning the exhilaration of the 
constructive use of freedom. Since the 5 energy hasn’t been a factor in the life 
up to this time, it’s likely that there has been little attention paid to the possi¬ 
bilities for growth and development presented by the variety of opportunities 
opened to the individual. At maturity, there's apt to be a shift in the life, 
bringing an awareness of freedom to center stage. This shift may be due to one 
of the following: 

• a breakup of one of the major stabilizing factors in the individual’s 
life—end of marriage or business, move to another locale, death of 
parent(s), children leaving home, OR 

• generation of freedom by significant money from business, inheritance 
or unexpected source, OR 

• generation of freedom by abandonment of self-imposed heavy respon¬ 
sibilities such as high-level job pressures, OR 

• developing awareness of discomfort of serious, responsible approach 
previously regarded as only sensible avenue. 

At this time in the life, the individual is likely to face some decisions about atti¬ 
tudes and actions in regard to freedom in order to give himself more control of 
his own life as well as a sense of deeper satisfaction. 









THE MATURITY NUMBER 


34 7 


CHART I BALANCE 

III fa RESPONSIBILITY 

A v U LOVE 

MATURITY NUMBER 


MATURITY NUMBER WITH STRONG SIMILAR ENERGY 

At maturity, there’s likely to be a reevaluation of the pleasure received in 
handling responsibility and exchanging affection. This mid-life appraisal is 
apt to focus on: 

• whether responsibility has been handled to produce satisfaction for the 
individual, OR 

• whether friendship, affection and love have been given and received to 
meet the individual’s needs. 

At this time in the life, the individual is likely to revise at least some attitudes 
and actions in regard to responsibility and affection, in order to achieve more 
satisfaction out of life. 


MATURITY NUMBER WITH NO STRONG SIMILAR ENERGY 


jt 

I 

I 

I 

$ 

i 


KARMIC MATURITY NUMBER 

Not applicable 


At maturity, new sub-lessons are introduced: (1) learning the deep pleasure in 
handling responsibility and (2) learning to give and receive friendship, affec¬ 
tion and love. Since the 6 energy hasn’t been a factor in the life up to this time, 
it’s likely that there have been few problems in relation to responsibility or af¬ 
fection. At maturity, there’s apt to be a shift in the life, bringing problems of 
responsibility or affection to center stage. This shift may be due to one of the 
following: 

• economic changes which may increase personal responsibilities, OR 

• marriage, separation, divorce or illness which may increase personal re¬ 
sponsibilities for children, OR 

• change of circumstances which may require assistance with aging 
parent(s). 

Along with the change in responsibility, there’s likely to be a desire for friend¬ 
ship, affection and love, a desire which may not have been particularly strong 
in the years before maturity. At this time in the life, the individual is likely to 
face some decisions about attitudes and actions in these areas in order to 
achieve more satisfaction out of life. 






348 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 10 



MATURITY NUMBER WITH NO STRONG SIMILAR ENERGY 

At maturity, a new sub-lesson is introduced: learning the peace of mind that 
comes with knowing oneself. Since the 7 energy hasn’t been a factor in the life 
up to this time, there’s probably been little attention paid to this introspective 
aspect of the life. At maturity, there’s apt to be a shift in the life, bringing a 
new awareness of spiritual matters to center stage. This shift may be due to 
one of the following: 

• the experience of another person (or group) who has achieved peace of 
mind may lead the individual to search in a similar direction, OR 

• 1 >■ • a personal crisis of extraordinary magnitude may propel the individual 

toward spiritual explorations which haven’t previously been of any con¬ 
cern, OR 

• an awareness of the emptiness or dissatisfactions of the life or a need for 
more fulfillment may lead the individual to spiritual explorations. 

At this time in the life, the individual is likely to face some decisions about at¬ 
titudes and actions in regard to his search for peace of mind and spiritual 
fulfillment. 


16/7 KARMIC MATURITY NUMBER 

The subject is likely to find obstacles in his path due to: 

• his apparent “differentness,” making it difficult for others to approach, 
OR 

• his outward actions, often not what others expect, which may be discon¬ 
certing or confusing to others, OR 

• his strong introspective needs, possibly turning to or interpreted as self- 
centeredness. 





THE MATURITY NUMBER 


349 


CHART 10 
MATURITY NUMBER 



MATERIAL SATISFACTION 


MATURITY NUMBER WITH STRONG SIMILAR ENERGY 

At maturity, there's likely to be a reevaluation of the satisfactions obtained 
with the material freedom and power that has been achieved. This mid-life 
appraisal is apt to focus on whether the current vocation (or the position in the 
current vocation) meets the individual’s needs for money, power and status. 

For some individuals, maturity may involve a new relation to the material 
world because of the growth of children, divorce, separation or new feelings 
about themselves and their earning power. Previous material satisfactions 
may no longer be available because of a decreased income, or, additional 
material satisfactions may become available due to their own business 
acumen. 

At this time in the life, the individual is likely to revise at least some attitudes 
and actions in regard to material freedom in order to achieve deeper satis¬ 
faction along with a better control of the life. 


MATURITY NUMBER WITH NO STRONG SIMILAR ENERGY 

At maturity, a new sub-lesson is introduced: learning the satisfactions of the 
material world, and the power which comes with its mastery. Since the 8 
energy hasn't been a factor in the life up to this time, it’s likely that the prob¬ 
lems (and lessons) of the material world have been of little consequence. The 
individual was probably well-provided for (possibly by others), or at least ade¬ 
quately provided for so that he had no need to struggle with material prob¬ 
lems. At maturity, there's apt to be a shift in the life, bringing the problems of 
the material world to center stage. This shift may be due to one of the follow- 
. -f - ing: 

• reevaluation of the vocation, possibly in comparison to others’ achieve¬ 
ments in the same or similar vocations, OR 

• desire to shift to a completely different vocation, possibly due to higher 
money, status, power possible in the new vocation, or desire for satis¬ 
faction above prestige, OR 

• awareness of approaching retirement and need to provide adequately, 
OR 

• economic changes which may affect financial responsibilities. 

At this time in the life, the individual is likely to face some decisions about his 
attitudes and actions in regard to the material world in order to achieve 
deeper satisfaction. 


KARMIC MATURITY NUMBER 

Not applicable 


g 

i 

$ 

'i 

a 

l 

S* 


| 

'v 






350 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 10 



SELFLESSNESS 

HUMANITARIANISM 


MATURITY NUMBER WITH STRONG SIMILAR ENERGY 


At maturity, there’s likely to be a reevaluation of the beauty of giving of 
oneself for the deep satisfaction of giving, without thought of reward or 
return. This mid-life appraisal is apt to focus on: 

• whether the individual has indeed found beauty in giving selflessly, OR 

• whether the individual has even been able to approach giving selflessly, 
or has only operated on this high level sporadically. 

At this time in the life, the individual is likely to revise at least some attitudes 
and actions in regard to selfless giving in order to achieve deeper satisfactions. 
He may prefer to give up on this lesson altogether because of its difficulty and 
its seeming lack of satisfaction. The numerologist can only indicate the poten¬ 
tial satisfaction. The individual travels his own path. 


MATURITY NUMBER WITH NO STRONG SIMILAR ENERGY 

At maturity, a new (and difficult) sub-lesson is introduced: learning the beau¬ 
ty of giving of oneself solely for the deep satisfaction of giving, without 
thought of reward or return. Since the 9 energy hasn’t been a factor in the life 
up to this time, it’s likely that little attention has been paid to this high-level 
lesson. At maturity, there’s apt to be a shift in the life, bringing a new 
awareness of selfless giving to center stage. This shift may be due to one of the 
following: 

• a new spiritual awareness, OR 

• the realization that selfishness and the resultant lack of giving has not 
given the individual a sense of satisfaction, OR 

• an experience of selfless giving by the individual (or to the individual) 
that brings deep satisfaction, OR 

• an experience with a humanitarian person or group which opens the 
eyes to a perception of the satisfaction. 

At this time in the life, the individual is likely to face some decisions about atti¬ 
tudes and actions in regard to selfless giving in order to feel a sense of deeper 
satisfaction. 





THE MATURITY NUMBER 


351 



11 


ILLUMINATION 


MATURITY NUMBER WITH STRONG SIMILAR ENERGY 


At maturity, there’s likely to be a reevaluation of the importance of learning 
an awareness of the spiritual world and the relation of that world to the 
material world. This mid-life appraisal is apt to focus on: 

• whether the spiritual world has even been approached, OR 

• whether the awareness of the spiritual world has proved a positive influ¬ 
ence, OR 

• whether the awareness of the relation between the material and 
spiritual world has proved a positive influence. 

At this time in the life, the individual is likely to revise at least some attitudes 
and actions in order to achieve deeper satisfactions. He may prefer to give up 
on this lesson altogether because of its difficulty and its seeming lack of satis¬ 
faction. The numerologist can only indicate the potential satisfaction. The in¬ 
dividual travels his own path. 


MATURITY NUMBER WITH NO STRONG SIMILAR ENERGY 

At maturity, a new (and difficult) sub-lesson is introduced: learning the glory 
of the awareness of the spiritual world and the relation of that world to the 
material world. Since the ll energy hasn’t been a factor in the life up to this 
time, it’s likely that little attention has been paid to this high level lesson. At 
maturity, there’s apt to be a shift in the life, bringing a new awareness of the 
relation of the spiritual and material worlds to center stage. This shift may be 
due to one of the following: 

- • an enlightening experience that allows him to glimpse the beauty of the 
spiritual world, OR 

• an experience in the material world that provides the realization that 
other forces may be necessary for ultimate satisfaction. 

At this time in the life, the individual is likely to face some decisions about atti¬ 
tudes and actions in regard to his awareness of the spiritual/material worlds 
in order to feel a sense of deeper satisfaction. This difficult new sub-lesson may 
not be approached at all. The individual may prefer to ignore this sub-lesson 
and concentrate on the alternative 2 sub-lesson. 


KARMIC MATURITY NUMBER 

Not applicable 







352 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 10 



22 


MASTER BUILDER 


MATURITY NUMBER WITH STRONG SIMILAR ENERGY 


At maturity, there’s likely to be a reevaluation of the importance of the 
mastery achieved by combining the highest ideals with the power to achieve 
significant material goals. This mid-life appraisal is apt to focus on: 

• whether this high-level lesson has even been approached, OR 

• whether this high-level lesson seems at all attainable, OR 

• whether the approach to date has been productive of at least some of its 
goals. 

At this time in the life, the individual is likely to revise at least some attitudes 
and actions in order to achieve deeper satisfactions. He may prefer to give up 
on this lesson altogether because of its difficulty and its seeming lack of satis¬ 
faction. The numerologist can only indicate the potential satisfaction. The in¬ 
dividual travels his own path. 


MATURITY NUMBER WITH NO STRONG SIMILAR ENERGY 

At maturity, a new (and difficult) sub-lesson is introduced: learning the 
mastery to be achieved by combining the highest ideals with the power to 
achieve significant material goals. Since the 22 energy hasn’t been a factor in 
the life up to this time, it’s likely that little attention has been paid to this high- 
level lesson. At maturity, there’s a shift in the life, bringing a new awareness 
of the potential use of this power to center stage. This shift may be due to one 
of the following: 

y • substantial mastery of the core energies prior to maturity may spark the 

feeling that even more may be achieved, OR 

• a desire to benefit mankind may produce the need to explore the outer 
limits of personal powers. 

At this time in the life, the individual is likely to face some decisions about atti¬ 
tudes and actions in regard to his potential powers in order to feel a sense of 
deeper satisfaction. This difficult new sub-lesson may not be approached at 
all. The individual may prefer to ignore this sub-lesson and concentrate on the 
alternative 4 sub-lesson. 




























THE FIRST LETTER 


The First Letter (this chart) and the First Vowel (Chart No. 12) 
describe the natural or innate approach, the method of response 
and reaction to experience. 

See Chapter 20, page 185. 







356 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 11 



A dynamic leader 

SENSITIVE LEADER 


First 
letter: 1 


INDIVIDUATION 

INDEPENDENCE 

ATTAINMENT 


See Chart No. 12: The First Vowel. 


INDECISIVE LEADER 


Tenth 
Letter: 
10 : 1 


Leader. 

Ambitious, usually in a quiet way. 

Assertive at times, only occasionally aggressive. 

Optimistic, recovers well from difficulties. 

Good mind. 

Excellent ideas. 

Original or innovative approach. 

Broad perspective may make it difficult to get started. Once started, leader¬ 
ship is likely to come to the fore, but progress may be plagued by indecision. 


EMOTIONAL LEADER 


Nineteenth 

letter: 

19 : 1 


Leader. 

Very creative. Dramatic flashes of insight. 

Ambitious. Concerned with impressions made by achievements. 
Independent. Courageous. 

Expresses individuality, often dramatically. 

Very emotional. Clear thinking may be affected by the depth of feelings. 
Erratic course of action with the possibility of setbacks because of difficulty in 
analyzing clearly. 


LETTER COMPARISON 


A: Most dynamic of l’s. Only self-starter. 
J: ' Most cautious, prudent of l’s. 

S: Most emotional of l’s. 



THE FIRST LETTER 


35 7 


CHART 



THE FIRST LETTER 



RELATION 

COOPERATION 



Second 
letter: 2 


SENSITIVE HELPER 

• Shy and retiring. Self-contained. Often indecisive. 

• Usually more comfortable in subservient role. Prefers being a follower rather 
than a leader. Works better with others than alone. Very cooperative. 

• Fosters and helps develop harmony in groups in which he’s involved. 

• Good at taking care of all the details. 

• May, at times, be critical of self and others. 

• Extremely sensitive and emotional. May be hurt by others' lack of sensitivity. 

• Needs affection. Seeks it in own quiet way. 


• May have difficulty working with others in a hurry or those who want to cut 
corners. 


INTUITIVE INSPIRER 

Eleventh 
letter: 11/2 

See 11 page of this chart. 



s 

I 

r- 

i 

| 

5 


3 


f i‘ 


.. , • f : . * 


i 

i 



EMOTIONAL HELPER 


Twentieth 

letter: 

20 : 2 


• Usually more comfortable in subservient role. Prefers being a follower rather 
than a leader. 

• Expects much from others, but is usually patient in helping others develop to 
expectations. 


• Generally works well with others, although likely to become anxious when 
problems develop. May, at times, be critical of self and others. 

• Seeks higher level enlightenment. 

• Extremely emotional and high strung. 

• Enjoys closeness of marriage, family. 

• Often self-sacrificing. 


LETTER COMPARISON 

B: Strong emotions usually felt and expressed. Less high level awarenesses than 
K or T. 

K: Extreme high level awareness (operates primarily as 11 rather than as 2). 

T: Extremely emotional and high-strung. Some high level awareness. 


?• 

3 








358 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 11 



SPONTANEOUS CREATOR 


EXPRESSION 
JOY OF LIVING 


Third 
letter: 3 


Spontaneity of creative inspiration. 

Very verbal. Often much originality with words and ideas. 

Sensitive. Sometimes easily hurt. 

Friendly and sociable. Enjoys social activities, the lighter side of life. 
Expresses joy of living with exhilaration. 

Psychic, though often latent. 


REASONING CREATOR 


Twelfth 
letter: 
12 : 3 


• Creative abilities express slowly, surely, in a measured manner. 

• Verbal. Often much originality with words and ideas. 

• Sensitive. 

• Friendly and sociable. Enjoys social activities, the lighter side of life. 

• Expresses joy of living. 

• Fine reasoning ability and powers of analysis. 


U SENSITIVE RECEPTOR 

CONSTRUCTIVE RECEPTOR 


Twenty-first 
letter 
21 : 3 


See Chart No. 12: The First Vowel. 


LETTER COMPARISON 


C: Most spontaneous and open of 3’s. 

L: Most mental of 3’s. 

U: Most receptive and self-protective of 3’s. 





THE FIRST LETTER 


CHART 


11 


THE FIRST LETTER 


LIMITATION 

ORDER 

SERVICE 


STEADY BUILDER 


Fourth 
letter: 4 


Hard worker. Self-disciplined. 

Serious. Steady. Thorough. 

Conservative, sometimes narrow approach. Rigid attitudes may cause 
problems. 

Tends to show little emotion. 

Self-contained. Operates well with little deep contact with others. 
Follows instructions precisely and completely. 

Extremely well-developed approach to material, practical affairs. 
Does mundane work efficiently. 

Works steadily, efficiently to complete a project. 


CONTROLLED BUILDER 


Thirteenth 

letter: 

13 : 4 


Hard worker. Self-disciplined. 

Serious. Steady. Thorough. 

Controlled approach. Often limited viewpoint. Usually accepts the given 
limits instead of expanding the potential. 

Repressed feelings may make him difficult to deal with and hard to get to 
know. 

May be relatively inarticulate, have difficulty explaining his approach. 
Organizational ability. 

Well-developed approach to material, practical affairs. 

Does mundane work efficiently. 

Works steadily, efficiently to complete a project. 


INSPIRATIONAL MASTER 


Twenty- 
second 
letter: 22/4 


See 22 page of this chart. 


LETTER COMPARISON 

D: Better balanced than M. 

M: More repressed, more inarticulate than D. 

V: Building abilities of D,M raised to highest level with spiritual revelation 
(operates primarily as 22 rather than as 4). 




REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 11 



CONSTRUCTIVE FREEDOM 


E APVENTUROUS ENCOUNTERER 
RESTLESS ENCOUNTERER 


Fifth 
letter: 5 


See Chart No. 12: The First Vowel. 


MENTAL ENCOUNTERER 


Fourteenth 

letter: 

14 : 5 


• Adventurous. 

• Restless. Need for change, excitement, variety. 

• Adaptable. 

• Imaginative. 

• Seeks and enjoys confronting any and all experience. 

• Generally uses strong mental approach. Good at analysis. 

• Personal philosophy, based on rational approach to experience, is usually 
changing constantly. 

• Works extremely well with people. Knows how to use others to carry through 
ideas. 

• Restlessness shows in making decisions—often vacillates between several 
points of view. 


w 


LIMITING ENCOUNTERER 


Twenty - 
third letter: 
23 : 5 


This chart describes W as consonant. 

See Chart No. 12: The First Vowel for W as a vowel. 

• Adventurous. Restless. Need for change, excitement, variety. 

• Excellent verbal abilities. Good at selling. 

• Tends to accept the given limits instead of expanding the potential. 

• Seeks and enjoys confronting any and all experience. 

• Often wants to express, but expression is usually limited because of more desire 
to experience than express. 

• Works extremely well with people. Others help carry through ideas. 

• Restlessness shows in making decisions—often vacillates between several 
points of view. 


LETTER COMPARISON 


E: Most capable of inspiration and accomplishment of 5’s. 
N: Most rational of 5’s. 

W: Most inexpressive, most limited aim of 5’s. 





THE FIRST LETTER 


361 


CHART 


11 


THE FIRST LETTER 


BALANCE 

RESPONSIBILITY 

LOVE 


STRUGGLING HARMONIZER 


Sixth 
letter: 6 


Accepts much responsibility—his own and others. Responsibility is often 
related to home and family. Responsibility weighs heavily. 

Can protect and care for others. 

Innate desire to right wrongs. 

Attracts situations requiring much in the way of adjustment. 

Capable of much sacrifice. 

Emotional. May withdraw when upset. 

Sensitive and receptive. 

Gives affection easily. Responds to affection. Is hurt by lack of affection. 


POISED HARMONIZER 
PROTECTED HARMONIZER 


Fifteenth 

letter: 

15 : 6 


See Chart No. 12: The First Vowel. 


EMOTIONAL HARMONIZER 


Twenty- 
fourth letter: 
24 : 6 


Accepts much responsibility—his own and others’. Responsibility is often 
related to home and family. Responsibility weighs heavily. 

Can protect and care for others. 

Capable of much sacrifice, but suffers from pressures created by sacrifice. 

Extremely emotional. Must learn how to deal with his and others’ feelings 
without being overwhelmed. 

Life often full of crises, emotional upheavals. 

Sometimes wallows in self-pity. 


LETTER COMPARISON 


F: Because of responsibilities, subject’s life likely to be struggle. 
O: Handles responsibilities well; usually expresses little feeling. 

X: Because of responsibilities, subject likely to feel much emotion. 



362 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 11 



ANALYSIS 

UNDERSTANDING 


RESERVED THINKER 


Seventh 
letter: 7 


Reserved, introspective. Manner causes misunderstanding. 

Secretive. 

May get lost in dreams. Needs firmer grounding in and understanding of 
reality. 

Works best alone. Often lonely. 

Doesn’t respond readily to affection. Gives little affection. 

Often anxious and lacking confidence. 

Much willpower. Keen mind. Given to thought and meditation. 

Enjoys analysis of fundamentals, philosophical speculation. 


INEXPRESSIVE THINKER 


Sixteenth 

letter: 

16 : 7 


Reserved, introspective. Manner causes misunderstandings. 

Secretive. 

Works best alone. Often lonely. 

Feels deeply, but not always sure of or comfortable with his feelings. Ex¬ 
presses and shares little of his thoughts and feelings. 

Keen mind. Given to thought and meditation. 

Enjoys analysis of fundamentals, philosophical speculation. 

Usually lacks determination and willpower. 


Twenty - 
fifth letter: 
25 : 7 


UNCERTAIN THINKER 

This chart describes Y as a consonant. 

See Chart No. 12: The First Vowel for Y as a vowel. 

zr: 

• Reserved, introspective. Manner causes misunderstandings. 

• Secretive. 

• Works best alone. Often lonely. Often uncertain and vacillating. 

• Feels deeply. Expresses and shares little of these feelings. 

• Extremely keen mind. Given to thought and meditation. 

• Enjoys analysis of fundamentals, philosophical speculation. 

• Extremely perceptive. Fine intuition. 

• Deep insights into higher matters. 

• Strong psychic power. Must learn to trust it. 


LETTER COMPARISON 


G: Most willpower of the 7’s. 

P: Least willpower, least expressiveness of the 7’s. 
Y: Most insightful, most vacillating of the 7’s. 



i 


THE FIRST LETTER 


363 



J_J AWARE ACHIEVER 


Eighth 
letter: 8 


• High level consciousness helps bring extreme awareness of the material world. 

• Executive and leadership ability. 

• Works well with others. 


• Operates well in material world with strong mental capability. Uses good 
mind to achieve material success—money, power, status. 

• Keen perceptions of people, events. 

• Strong desire for advance may be blunted by changing ideas. 


NON-CONFORMIST ACHIEVER 


Seventeenth 

letter: 

17: 8 


Large potential power, not always used in a balanced productive manner. 
Inputs dramatic energy levels into projects with which he associates. 
Capable of superior material achievement—money, power, status—if he can 
proceed without being self-centered or greedy. 

Superior leadership ability. Good at directing efforts to achieve desired ends. 

Often espouses an independent, unusual (sometimes eccentric) position, no 
matter what opposition is created. 



INSPIRATIONAL ACHIEVER 


Twenty- 

sixth letter: • Extremely dynamic energy. 

• R 

• Self-confidence and will-power. 

• Capable of leadership and attendant material achievements—money, power, 
status. Greed or lack of responsibility may hamper his achievements. 

• Capable of inspiring others. 

• Deep awareness of emotions—his own and others. 

• Can work through emotional crises with understanding. 

• Suffers through his own deep feelings and awarenesses. 


LETTER COMPARISON 

H: Best balanced of 8’s. 

Q: Most unusual approach of 8’s. 
Z: Most inspired of 8’s. 







364 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 11 


CHART 


11 


THE FIRST LETTER 


SELFLESSNESS 

HUMANITARIANISM 


EMOTIONAL HUMANITARIAN 
RESTRAINED HUMANITARIAN 


Ninth 
letter: 9 


See Chart No. 12: The First Vowel. 


SELFLESS HUMANITARIAN 


Eighteenth 

letter: 

18 : 9 


Humanitarian. Selfless. 

Great understanding and tolerance. Strong potential to help others. May be 
taken advantage of by others. 

Significant power potential. 

Idealistic. Sometimes led in impractical directions by idealistic views. 

Much emotion. Often, considerable emotional upset. 

Self-starter. 

Inspirational approach. 


LETTER COMPARISON 


I: More high-strung than R. 
R: More selfless than I. 









366 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 11 



22 


MASTER BUILDER 


INSPIRATIONAL MASTER 


Twenty- 
second 
letter: 22/4 


Inspired leader. 

Extremely receptive to spiritual revelation. 

Builder, on the highest level. 

Can envision ideas, convert ideas into practical form, organize people and 
resources, inspire confidence and loyalty. 

Can convert spiritual awareness to material form. 

High nervous tension. 

Hard worker. Self-disciplined. 

Serious. Steady. Thorough. 

Practical. 

Intuitive awareness is potential strong source of power. 

























THE FIRST VOWEL 


The First Vowel (this chart) and the First Letter (Chart No. 11) 
describe the natural or innate approach, the method of 
response and reaction to experience. 

See Chapter 20, page 185. 




370 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 12 


CHART 


12 


THE FIRST VOWEL 


INDIVIDUATION 

INDEPENDENCE 

ATTAINMENT 


First 
letter: 1 


DYNAMIC LEADER 

LONG VOWEL as in Amy, Dale, Jane 

• Leader. Ambitious. Adventurous. Progressive. 

• Assertive, at the very least; often aggressive. Independent. Self-reliant. 

• Strong willpower and strong opinions. Accepts advice readily only if it’s in 
same vein as own ideas. 

• Expresses individuality strongly. 

• Great deal of energy. Good mind. Creative mental approach. 

• Excellent ideas. Interested in new ideas but usually prefers to use own ideas. 

• Original or innovative approach. Will defend his approach no matter how 
much opposition he faces. 

• Pushes ahead with pioneering spirit. Loves to forge ahead in unknown terri¬ 
tory. 

• Interest may lag after the start. May have difficulty completing projects. 


First 
letter: 1 


SENSITIVE LEADER 

SHORT VOWEL as Arlene, Matthew, Pamela 

• Leader, but doesn’t always care to exert power. 

• Moderately adventurous. Progressive. Sometimes assertive. 

• With practice, develops independence, self-reliance. 

• Has own ideas, but willing to listen to others’ ideas and incorporate all. 

• Individuality is expressed in a subdued manner. 

• Good mind. Creative mental approach. Excellent ideas. 

• Original or innovative approach. Will explain his approach and is willing to 
struggle with the opposition, but too much opposition may wear him down. 

• Pushes ahead with measured forward spirit. Enjoys moving cautiously into 
unknown territory. 



SENSITIVE LEADER 

COMBINED VOWEL as in Haydn, Joan, Laura 










THE FIRST VOWEL 





372 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 12 


CHART 


12 


THE FIRST VOWEL 


EXPRESSION 
JOY OF LIVING 


Twenty - 
jirst letter: 
21 : 3 


SENSITIVE RECEPTOR 

LONG VOWEL as in Hugh, Julian, Lucy 

• Artistic, creative with measured approach. Although the creativity potential 
can be seen, there is often very little expressed. 

• Usually good with words. 

• Sensitive. Aware of others’ feelings. 

• Strong emotions. 

• Friendly and sociable. Enjoys social activities, the lighter side of life. 

• Idealistic, but rarely attains idealistic ends. 

• Conservative approach. Rarely seeks initiative. 

• Extremely intuitive. 

• Indecisive approach. 

• May scatter energies. 


Twenty- 
first letter: 
21 : 3 


CONSERVATIVE RECEPTOR 
SHORT VOWEL as in Burt, Gus, Russell 

• Artistic, creative potential. If expressed at all, expressed in slow, very conser¬ 
vative approach. 

• Capable of good communication, but often prefers not to express thoughts. 

• Sensitive. Aware of others’ feelings. 

• Strong emotions, sometimes not expressed. 

• Idealistic desires, rarely communicated or developed. 

• Extremely conservative approach. Prefers not to take initiative. 

• Intuitive. 

• -Indecisive approach. 

• May scatter energies. 


Twenty- 
first letter: 
21 : 3 


CONSERVATIVE RECEPTOR 

COMBINED VOWEL as in Audrey, Eugene, Guy 

• Artistic, creative potential, often latent. 

• Either inexpressive or over-talkative. Either way, communicates little of deep 
thoughts. 

• Sensitive. 

• Deep feelings. 

• Idealistic. 

• Extremely conservative. 

• Intuitive. 

• Indecisive approach. 

• May scatter energies. 




THE FIRST VOWEL 


CHART 12 
THE FIRST VOWEL 


LONG VOWEL 

Not applicable 


SHORT VOWEL 

Not applicable 


COMBINED VOWEL 


4 LIMITATION 
ORDER 
SERVICE 


Not applicable 








374 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 12 


CHART 


12 


THE FIRST VOWEL 


CONSTRUCTIVE FREEDOM 


Fifth 
letter „• 5 


ADVENTUROUS ENCOUNTERER 
LONG VOWEL as in Delia, Gene, Leroy 

• Adventurous. Often turns life situations into adventures. 

, • Restless. Need for change, excitement, variety. 

• Impulsive. Aggressive. 

• Adaptable. Versatile.- 

• Needs freedom in order to develop. 

• Often difficulties with marriage because of need for change, excitement. Mar¬ 
riage, on occasion, can provide stabilizing influence. 

• Much energy. 

• Much mental activity. Much stimulation. 

• Keep perceptions and judgements of people, motivations, events. 

• Helpful. Practical. 

• Much is started, often abandoned or set aside for later time. 


E 

Fifth 
letter: 5 


RESTLESS ENCOUNTERER 

SHORT VOWEL as in Bernard, Emily, Kelley 

• Enjoys adventure. Prefers freedom in order to develop. 

• Somewhat restless. Likes change, excitement, variety. 

• Adaptable. Versatile. Helpful. Practical. 

• Marriage needs much work, spouse with considerable understanding in order 
to succeed. 

• A good deal of energy, but often less energy than necessary to carry out the 
stimulating demands of his life. 

• Mental activity. Good perceptions and judgements. 

• A good deal is started, sometimes abandoned or set aside for later time, or 
given to others to continue and complete. 


E 

Fifth 
letter: 5 


w 

Twenty- 
third letter: 
23 : 5 


RESTLESS ENCOUNTERER 

COMBINED VOWEL as in Beulah, Jeanne, Reid 

• Adventurous. 

• Adaptable. Versatile. 

• Mental activity. 

• A good deal is started, but continuity may be lacking, sometimes causing 
discord. 

VACILLATING ENERGIZER 

Can only be COMBINED VOWEL and follow another letter as in Howard, Seward 

• Restless. 

• Strong energy can be used in positive or negative direction, particularly in 
material affairs. With great effort, energy can be used for superior achieve¬ 
ment; with much less effort, energy can be used to promote negative ends: 
—If core stresses egotism, domination, self-centeredness, (1,4,8 particularly), 

W energy tends to emphasize these negative traits. 

—If core stresses awareness or helpfulness to others (2,6,7,9,11), W energy 
tends to emphasize these positive traits. 

—If core stresses freedom (5 particularly), W energy stresses freedom. Rest of 
core and free will determine whether direction is positive or negative. 


• Often vacillates between several different points of view. 






THE FIRST VOWEL 


375 


CHART 


12 


THE FIRST VOWEL 


BALANCE 

RESPONSIBILITY 

LOVE 


Fifteenth 

letter: 

15 : 6 


POISED HARMONIZER 

LONG VOWEL as in Hope, Joseph, Rose 

• Takes on many responsibilities—often more than he can comfortably handle. 
Because he is so responsible, he may well be used by others. 

• Views role in life as giving service to others: family, friends, close community. 

• Attracts situations requiring much in the way of adjustment. 

• Concentrates well. 

• Conservative traits. Gives out little openly. Often content to follow traditional 
modes. Prefers a settled life with minimum change. 

• Innately knows how to protect self from life's storms. Self-contained. 
Secretive. 

• Deep emotions, but controlled so often not visible. 

• Creative, artistic. Enjoys beautiful domestic surroundings. 


Fifteenth 

letter: 

15 : 6 


PROTECTED HARMONIZER 

SHORT VOWEL as in Dorothy, Josh, Oliver 

• Responsible. 

• Gives service to others; family, friends, close community. 

• Attracts situations requiring much in the way of adjustment. 

• Sometimes, can create balance; at other times, contributes to imbalance. 

• Conservative. Traditional. 

• Extremely protected. Extremely self-contained. Secretive. 

• Extremely emotional, but only some of the feelings are displayed. 


Fifteenth 

letter: 

15 : 6 


PROTECTED HARMONIZER 

COMBINED VOWEL as in Boyd, Howard, Louis 

• Responsible. 

• Gives service. 

• Attracts situations requiring much in the way of adjustment. 

• Conservative. Traditional. 

• Protected. Self-contained. 

• Emotional. Some feelings displayed. 





376 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 12 


CHART 12 
THE FIRST VOWEL 


7 ANALYSIS 

UNDERSTANDING 


Y 

Twenty- 
fifth letter: 
25 : 7 


Y 

Twenty- 
fifth letter: 
25 : 7 


UNCERTAIN THINKER 
LONG VOWEL as in Myron, Ryan 

• Reserved, introspective. Very secretive. 

• Works best alone. Often feels isolated. 

• Feels deeply. Expresses and shares little of these feelings. 

• Often not understood by others. 

• Extremely keen mind. Given to thought and meditation. 

• Enjoys analysis of fundamentals, pursuit of wisdom, philosophical or meta¬ 
physical speculation. Extremely perceptive. Fine intuition. 

• Deep insights into higher matters. Not always certain how to use these in¬ 
sights. 

• Strong psychic power. Must learn to trust it. 

• Difficulty in choosing directions, solutions. Often uncertain, vacillating. Must 
constantly choose path of growth or the easy way. 

DEPENDENT THINKER 

SHORT VOWEL as in Cyril, Sylvia, Yvette 

• Reserved, introspective. Very secretive. 

• Works best alone. Often feels isolated. 

• Feels deeply. Expresses and shares little of these feelings. 

• Often not understood by others. 

• Extremely keen mind. Given to thought and meditation. Enjoys analysis of 
fundamentals, pursuit of wisdom, philosophical or metaphysical speculation. 

• Good perceptions. Good intuition. 

- -r Insight into higher matters. Some psychic power. Must learn to trust it. 


• Extreme difficulty in choosing directions, solutions. Usually uncertain, vacil¬ 


lating. Must constantly choose path of growth or the easy way. 



VACILLATOR 

COMBINED VOWEL as in Boyd, Fay, Raymond 


Twenty- 
fifth letter: 
25 : 7 


• Adds indecision and restlessness to the coloration of the connected vowel. 

• Extreme difficulty in choosing directions, solutions. Usually uncertain. Must 
constantly choose path of growth or the easy way. 







THE FIRST VOWEL 


CHART 12 
THE FIRST VOWEL 


LONG VOWEL 

Not applicable 


SHORT VOWEL 

Not applicable 


COMBINED VOWEL 


Not applicable 







378 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 12 



SELFLESSNESS 

HUMANITARIANISM 


Ninth 
letter: 9 


EMOTIONAL HUMANITARIAN 

LONG VOWEL as in Clive, Ida, Michael 

• Humanitarian. Giving. Serves others with love. 

• Sympathetic. Deep emotional understanding of others' needs. 

• Sensitive. Often too sensitive for good balance. 

• Willing to sacrifice for others. At times, may be disappointed with others’ 
response or lack of appreciation. 

• Idealistic. 

• Artistic, creative. 

• Very intense. Much energy. 

• Conservative. Prefers to work in familiar territory. 

• Extremely deep feelings. The emotions rule (sometimes overwhelm) the men¬ 
tal faculties. Wild fluctuations in temperament possible—from joy to depres- 


Ninth 
letter: 9 


RESTRAINED HUMANITARIAN 
SHORT VOWEL as in Christy, Gilbert, Lillie 

• Humanitarian. Giving. 

• Quietly sympathetic. 

• Sensitive. 

• Often willing to sacrifice for others. 

• Idealistic. 

• Artistic, creative. 

• Conservative. Works in familiar territory. 

• Some intensity at times. A good deal of energy. 

- • . > •" Deep feelings, usually expressed with moderation. The emotions rule the men¬ 
tal faculties. 


Ninth 
letter: 9 


RESTRAINED HUMANITARIAN 
COMBINED VOWEL as in Daisy, Frieda, Neil 

• Humanitarian. 

• Sensitive. 

• Idealistic. 

• Artistic, creative. 

• Conservative. 

• Some intensity at times. A good deal of energy. 

• Feelings expressed with moderation. 





THE FIRST VOWEL 


CHART 12 
THE FIRST VOWEL 


LONG VOWEL 

Not applicable 


SHORT VOWEL 

Not applicable 


COMBINED VOWEL 


Not applicable 





380 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 12 


12 


CHART 

THE FIRST VOWEL 


22 


MASTER BUILDER 


LONG VOWEL 

Not applicable 


SHORT VOWEL 

Not applicable 


i 

4 

s' 


COMBINED VOWEL 

Not applicable 


f 










The original letters from which these excerpts 
were taken are on file at Newcastle Publishing Co., Inc. 


I just read your incredible double volume . . . the Best ever 
written on the subject. 

—Michael Timothy Cassett, radio show host, 
author-numerologist, Los Angeles 


I have been studying the numbers for some time now and have 
never seen a more “complete” or “thorough” set of books with 
which to work. 

—Rose M. Uhlhorn, numerology student, Glenview, Illinois 


Your work is outstanding! By far the finest work on numerology 
I’ve yet to come across. Sophisticated and quite involved but 
clearly and simply explained. Beautifully, beautifully done. 

—Ann Walker, R.N., numerology student, St. Louis 


It is the most fantastic work of its kind—on any Occult subject 
I have come across in the past seven or eight years. I could not 
believe that any person would ever write a work on any Occult 
subject as thorough and complete as you have managed to do. It 
has certainly been one of the biggest thrills going thru your 
presentation—I love the systematic and logical way in which you 
present this subject. 

—Roberta Strain, AMAFA, astrologer, numerologist, 
music teacher, Bound Brook, NJ 


The most detailed and yet comprehensive treatment of this sub¬ 
ject I have yet to find! . . .Your book . . . cannot be surpassed, 
and will be treasured in the years ahead. 

—Sharia S. Breger, astrologer-numerologist, Chicago 


The book is synergy—putting all aspects of the subject together 
—making a powerful tool. 

—Jeanne Silk, R.N., M.A.C.S., nurse, psychotherapist, 
numerologist, Tempe, Arizona 




OCCULT 




HACH VOI.UME-Si 2 .q 5 
TWO- VOLUME SET— S25.QQ 1 
(Slightly higher in Canada ' 


NUMEROLOGY, the simplest of the occult sciences to master, offers 
deep insights into the personality. You can use numerology go 
understand yourself, friends, associates and loners. You can see the 
dynamics of relationships and you can determine the best time to 
marry, change jobs, more, invest and travel. 

HERE IS THE DEFINITIVE WORK ON NUMEROLOGY. 


Organized for clarity that a beginner 
can grasp easily and detailed so that 
the advanced student will find useful 
new information. 

This two-volume set is designed as a 
working manual. Among its features 
are many examples, detailed working 
charts containing all the information 
needed, and some new material on 
the meanings of the Master Numbers 
and Doubled Numbers. 

SPECIAL FEATURES OF VOLUME I: 
THE'PERSONALITY READING 

□ Explanations of the four major 
"core” elements and the modifiers of 
the reading, and their relative impor¬ 
tance. 

D A complete special reference chart 
section — a unique, preassembled for¬ 
mat which presents all the infor¬ 
mation you need quickly and easily, 
making memorization unnecessary. 

□ Complete sample character read¬ 
dings with step-by-step guidelines. 

□ Illustrations of how to resolve the 
conflicts and ambiguities present in 
any character reading. 

SPECIAL FEATURES OF VOLUME II: 
ADVANCED PERSONALITY 
ANALYSIS AND READING THE 
PAST PRESENT AND FUTURE 

□ Complete, sample advanced read¬ 
ings with step-by-step guidelines. 

□ Explanations of short-term and 
long-term time cycles and their rela¬ 
tive importance. 


□ A complete special reference chart 
section —a unique, preassembled 
format which presents all the infor¬ 
mation you need quickly and easily, 
making memorization unnecessary. 

□ Progressed Readings with step-by- 
step guidelines. 

D Illustrations of how to resolve the 
conflicts and ambiguities present in 
any Progressed Reading. 

□ A new simple graphic method for 
pinpointing dates and significant life 
changes. 


Numerologist Matthew Goodwin, a 
graduate of Masasachusetts Institute 
of Technology, brings to his craft a 
love of numbers, mathematics and 
scientific analysis. 

Mr. Goodwin lives in Los Angeles 
with his wife, children and great dane 
where he studies, teaches numerology, 
does private consultations and ad¬ 
vanced research in the field. 



NEWCASTLE PUBLISHING, INC. 
PO BOX 75S°, VAN NUYS, CA 91409 


VOLUME I: ISBN 0-87877-053-4 • VOLUME II: ISBN 0-87877-054-2 • 2;VOLUME SET: ISBN 0-87877- 000 A 







