
Chaldean 
Numerology 


How Your Name & Birthday Reveal Your True Nature & Life Path 


HEATHER ALICIA LAGAN. 


Chaldean 
Numerology 


How Your Name & Birthday Reveal Your True Nature & Life Path 


+. Gi “oe 


HEATHER ALICIA LAG 


About the Author 
Heather Alicia Lagan (Chilliwack, British Columbia) is a lifelong metaphysician 
and spiritual practitioner. She is a Master Chaldean numerologist with over 
twenty years experience, and she has used this system to conduct hundreds of 
readings for clients. Visit Lagan online at TheReadingRoom101.com. 


Chaldean 
Numerology 


———————— 


For Beginners 


How Your Name & Birthday 
Reveal Your True Nature & Life Path 


HEATHER ALICIA LAGAN 


Llewellyn Publications 
Woodbury, Minnesota 


Copyright Information Chaldean Numerology for Beginners: How Your 
Name & Birthday Reveal Your True Nature & Life Path © 2011 by Heather 
Alicia Lagan. 

All rights reserved. No part of this book may be used or reproduced in 
any matter whatsoever, including Internet usage, without written 
permission from Llewellyn Publications, except in the form of brief 
quotations embodied in critical articles and reviews. 


As the purchaser of this e-book, you are granted the non-exclusive, 
non-transferable right to access and read the text of this ebook on 
screen. The text may not be otherwise reproduced, transmitted, 
downloaded, or recorded on any other storage device in any form or 
by any means. 


Any unauthorized usage of the text without express written 
permission of the publisher is a violation of the author’s copyright and 
is illegal and punishable by law. 


First e-book edition © 2011 
E-book ISBN: 9780738730929 


Book format by Bob Gaul 


Cover art © iStockphoto.com/Alan Merrigan Cover design by Ellen 
Lawson Editing by Patti Frazee 

Interior cards from Universal Tarot by De Angelis, reprinted by 
permission from Lo Scarabeo Llewellyn Publications is an imprint of 
Llewellyn Worldwide Ltd. 


Llewellyn Publications does not participate in, endorse, or have any 
authority or responsibility concerning private business arrangements 
between our authors and the public. 


Any Internet references contained in this work are current at 
publication time, but the publisher cannot guarantee that a specific 
reference will continue or be maintained. Please refer to the 
publisher’s website for links to current author websites. 


Llewellyn Publications Llewellyn Worldwide Ltd. 
2143 Wooddale Drive 
Woodbury, MN 55125 
www.llewellyn.com 


Manufactured in the United States of America 


Acknowledgments 

This has been a journey twenty years in the making. I have learned so much 
from so many people and clients and had no idea at the time that all of this 
education would take the form of a book. I simply did not keep track of it all, 
other than on my posterboard “book” and in my brain. So many people have 
been a part of this journey into print, some in little ways and others in larger 
ways, but all of you supported my goal and my writing in your own inimitable 
ways and I value your contributions beyond measure. You know who you are 
and so does Universe. I want to thank all of you and I apologize to any particular 
persons or sources of inspiration that should ideally be named herein. 

That said, I do want to acknowledge a few people who have made a world of 
difference in my journey. Gratitude and lots of love go to my sister, Claudia 
Lagan, for being my rock and the most treasured gift of my life next to my son, 
James; Catherine Lang-Murphy for her years of encouragement; Sylvaine 
Lelong for her unfailing support; Jose Alberto Canhas for his kind and generous 
heart and for showing me the reality of the dream; Leeya Brooke Thompson for 
sharing her thoughts, precious support, and friendship; Amy Glaser for her 
invaluable advice; David Hill for always being there; and the entire crew at 
Llewellyn for their faith in this project and in me. Last, but certainly not least, I 
thank you, dear reader, for reading these words. I hope the ones that follow will 
bring a smile to your lips and a lightness to your heart. 


[contents] 


Dedication 
Dedicated to every one of you 
and 
the connections between 
every one of us 


Scientists acknowledge that everything in our universe vibrates to its own 
level of energy. Numbers and letters are central to this knowledge and when 
combined and “read,” present the vibrational story behind any given word or 
name and reveal the hidden pathway each energy is to follow. 


... words, like nature, half reveal and half conceal the soul within... 

—Lord Alfred Tennyson (1809-1892) Words have meanings and names 
have power. 

—author unknown 


. the invisible thing called a Good Name is made up of the breath of 
numbers that speak well of you ... 

—George Savile (1633-1695) Words are the keys to the heart. 

—Chinese proverb 


contents 


acknowledgments 
introduction 
one: Chaldean Numerology Chart 
two: Chaldean Name Analysis 
three: The Numbers 
four: The Letters 


five: Chaldean Numerology and Today’s Spiritual 
Seekers 


six: Sample Reads 
conclusion 
glossary 

recommended reading 


bibliography 


introduction 


The Chaldean System 


hile there are several numerology systems in use today, only Chaldean 

(pronounced cal-day-yan) numerology has proven itself to me over the 
years to be almost eerie in its accuracy. Essentially, the Chaldeans were the first 
to recognize that all things are energy and connect sounds to vibrations, 
vibrations to numbers, and numbers to letters. Highly spiritual in nature, this 
system is an original in the numbers game and was the first to connect the 
original meanings of the letters to name analysis. It looks beyond your name to 
the individual letter energies and what they mean to you, and beyond your date 
of birth to the specific vibrations of your Lifepath, or what you are here to do, 
be, or learn. 

Despite having a reputation as being difficult to learn (which is why it was 
almost lost to history in the first place), this system is actually quite easy to 
master. Once you know its long-held secrets, it will become a unique and 
invaluable tool in your personal and daily life. Not only does it provide you with 
a personal “blueprint,” it also offers insights into others. 


The Ancient Chaldeans 

Over two thousand years ago, the ancient Chaldeans lived around the 
southernmost tip of Babylonia, near the lush mouths of the Tigris and Euphrates 
rivers. While the origins of these rather mysterious peoples were and still are 
unknown, they did overtake the Babylonian throne (the most famous of their 
kings being Nebuchadnezzar, who ruled from approximately 606 to 561 BCE), 
where they remained for more than seventy-five years. While many fundamental 
structures such as housing, agriculture, and manufacturing were already in place 
when the throne was assumed, the Chaldeans contributed advanced astrology, 
mathematics, and spiritual elements to the society, which included an interesting 
blend of Lunar worship, esoteric observations, and methods of magick and 
divination. It is hardly surprising then that Babylonia as a whole is often 
considered the “cradle of civilization”—the fact that relatively few recordings of 
the Chaldeans and their origins, belief systems, and practices were written by the 
people themselves only serves to underscore the overall mystery surrounding 
them and the part they played in the subsequent spread of knowledge and 
science throughout the Western world. However, despite this lack of original 
recordings, the system of numerology attributed to the Chaldeans has not only 
survived, it has proven itself to be an incredibly accurate method of measuring 
energies. Try it out for yourself and you will be amazed at its accuracy and 
uniqueness. 


What’s Your Vibe? 


Have you ever wondered how you “come across” to others? Or, what kind of 
vibe you give off? This multi-faceted oracle will tell you that, along with many 
other things. 

Chaldean numerology tracks the energy fluctuations created when you think or 
speak—or when someone else does. Simply put, the sound that emanates from 
your mouth sends out frequencies that affect both you and those around you. 

The most common words associated with you are found in your name—and 
their vibrations speak volumes about you, your attitudes, characteristics, power 
levels, and much more, but only to the educated ear. 


To illustrate the concept of sound vibrations, consider what occurs when a 
piano is played: it produces different tones, some sharp and some soft, but all 
resonate throughout the room, even when a note is only hit once. Beyond being 
heard or felt, Chaldean numerology allows letter energies and number vibrations 
to be “read.” In a name, for instance, each letter holds a meaning and a history, 
and letter placements and number frequencies reveal 
characteristics, patterns, strengths, weaknesses, pathways, spiritual connections, 
and challenges. Basically, your name is like a song—many might be able to hum 
the tune, but its true meaning can only be ascertained by knowing how to read 
the lyrics. 


What’s in a Name? 

Letters and numbers are like the individual strokes that make up a painting of 
word energies. Words are alive. They live. You most certainly know that words 
can wound in that “the pen is mightier than the sword.” In fact, wordplay is 
everywhere; look closely at “words,” move the “s” and you have “sword.” There 
is definitely more to the alphabet and its components than meets the eye, and this 
is true of your name as well. 

Let’s look at the letter D. This letter primarily represents a “Door” and carries 
a traditional meaning of foundational stability. Its supporting number is 4, the 
number of firm foundations. The two combined produce a fixed, routine, 
predictable, and sometimes stagnant energy that, like a door, carries two sides 
and can be open or closed in attitude. There are often significant challenges or 
struggles in the life of a Cornerstone D that go beyond the norm; that said, the D 
is also tenacious and does not give up easily. Beyond being reliable and fairly 
domestic, the D can be stubborn and uncompromising, to the extent that no 
amount of entreaty or persuasion will convince it to open its door, much less to 
go outside of its comfort zone to explore new terrain. On the other hand, the 
positive D will be open to possibilities and opportunities and eager to explore the 
“other side,” but it will always want to go home and retire behind the privacy of 
its own closed doors. 

Now, think of someone you know whose name begins with a “D.” Do any of 
the above descriptions ring any bells? 


Therefore, just knowing someone’s first name, or even their initials, will tell 
you a lot about them. Imagine what a complete chart will reveal. 


What’s in a Number? 


Now let’s have a quick peek at how number energies work. Imagine holding a 
big bucket with one lonely penny sitting on the bottom, then imagine that same 
bucket holding 10,000 pennies—the addition of several ciphers (or zeros) has 
created an occasion worthy of a trip to the bank. Placement of number elements 
will always affect other numbers, much as 10 percent of a stock is preferable to 
.01 percent of it. This rule holds true for all number (and letter) arrangements; 
each affects the other in some way. 

Think about the computer in your house. Then think about all of the other 
computers out there and the massive reach of the World Wide Web. At the core 
of this system, you will find the number 1 and the cipher 0, which is a pretty 
amazing thought if you dwell upon it. The fact is that everything on this Earth 
can be traced back to numbers, and you are affected by them just like everyone 
else. 


The Dark Side of Numbers and Letters 

Also like everyone else, you undoubtedly have days when you feel lighter than 
air and others when you feel heavier than cement. Everything and everyone 
carries the potential for both positive and negative reactions and moods—and 
since everything is energy, numbers and letters are no exception. They do not, 
however, suffer from mood swings; rather, they carry both potentialities (for 
positive and negative) within their frame work: each number has a negative 
vibration, as does each letter. While I do list some of these at the end of each 
description, the easiest way to ascertain the negatives is by reversing the listed 
positives. 

The one thing that has become evident to me is that what I call “undeveloped” 
people will have little or no interest in self-improvement/spirituality themes or 
applications and thus will rarely, if ever, be found reading a book such as this. 

The most dangerous of the negative manifestations comes in the most 
powerful numbers; for example, numbers that carry very forceful or elevated 


levels of potential are the ones to look out for—because of their force, drive, and 
hunger for achievement, power, and control, numbers 1 and 8 are two of the 
more potentially negative numbers (and the 9 has its moments as well), while 
elevated Masters like the 11 (in particular) and sometimes the 22 can also create 
“monster” energies, which I will expand upon later. If you do have someone in 
your life that fits the negative and often dangerous descriptions of any number, 
you will likely find that you already knew—the intuition is an amazing gift. 
Listen to its warning and leave or get help. Dark energies take a while to get that 
way and are not likely to change their spots overnight. If they are well 
established, chances are good that these energies can truly become harmful to 
others. 

That said, do not be surprised if some of the negative descriptions apply to you 
—as long as they are not ongoing or accentuated traits you have nothing to 
worry about. We are all a blend of dualities and opposites and a relatively 
balanced blend is considered normal. Even the Sun has its off days. 


What’s the Difference Between Systems? 

One of the more popular numerology systems, known as Western Numerology 
and attributed to Pythagoras (circa 500 BCE), differs in major ways from 
Chaldean. The Pythagorean system is based on sequential patterns rather than on 
sound vibrations. The alphabet is arranged in order and under a number chart 
that runs from 1 through 9. One major difference is in the 9: the ancient 
Chaldeans viewed this number with tremendous respect; therefore it was not 
included in the number chart, although it could still be found as a name total. In 
the eyes of these ancients, this number was sacred, perhaps partly due to its 
connection to infinity (it is the only number that can be multiplied by any other 
number and consistently reduce back to its core); however, Pythagoras paid it no 
special mind, even assigning the letters I and R to its domain. Further, the latter 
system relies on information gleaned only from the birth or given name while 
Chaldean numerology focuses only on the name you are currently using—after 
all, it is those energies that are affecting you at any given time, not the ones you 
carried long ago. Another aspect to consider here are name changes. Whether by 
virtue or choice—adoption, 


marriage, divorce, and even through the development of nicknames—names can 
and do change, thereby altering energy vibrations. Most importantly, no other 
systems specifically address the meanings of the letters within a name energy, 
nor do they carry or convey the spiritual messages that are intrinsic to the 
Chaldean system. Suffice it to say that the Chaldean system is one of a kind ... 
and it works. 


The History of Our Alphabet 


The ancient Chaldeans used a different set of symbols than we do today. Called 
cuneiform (which looks rather like straight nails with wedged tips), this method 
was used by necessity more than anything else. Most record keeping was 
accomplished using wet clay tablets, and making straight marks was much more 
effective than trying to draw curves. However, sounds and symbols remained a 
predominant theme throughout the many years of subsequent integration and 
adaptations involving pictographs, Egyptian hieroglyphics, Greek additions, 
Roman stylizations, and contributions from the Phoenicians and Hebrews, 
among others, but the central essence of Chaldean numerology has remained 
intact. Its core essence has been preserved for thousands of years and is as 
accurate now as it was in ancient times. 

What began as a relatively simple connection between sound and symbol 
morphed into the alphabet as we know it today, a process that took many 
hundreds of years—but it is more than that. Our alphabet speaks its own 
language, and Chaldean numerology allows us to translate what is truly being 
said without the necessity of calculating vowels and so on. This system is 
complete unto itself and it will tell you all you need to know about your “self.” 
Calculating your own numbers using this method presents the beginning of a 
journey that is all about you. 


What Makes Me an Expert? 


While visiting my local library more than twenty years ago, a proverbial book 
fell off the shelf and into my arms. Naturally, I took it home and opened it with a 
normal amount of curiosity. However, upon reading an early entry, my curiosity 
became wide-eyed fascination. While books are designed to speak to us, this one 
took that theme into the twilight zone. The book informed me in no uncertain 
terms that the book had found me and that if I became absorbed in its contents, I 
would then become bound and obliged to share this information with others to 
assist them in their journey through life. I remember feeling as though I had 
received a direct communication from an unknown realm. Like someone or 
something was talking specifically to me. While I certainly felt inadequate to the 


task at the time, that message stayed with me. 

I never found that book again, despite concerted efforts. I do not recall its 
cover, its title, or the author’s name. Its visit with me and its deposition of 
knowledge was as mysterious as its subject matter and swift and utter 
disappearance. 

In the many years that have passed since reading those words, I have prepared 
and read hundreds of Chaldean reports for clients and friends, and without 
exaggeration, no one has been less than impressed with its accuracy and spiritual 
insights. Chaldean numerology has taught me so much about myself and has 
blessed me with a deep understanding of the subtleties and shades, the depths 
and the heights, the repeating patterns and links that form the language of our 
alphabet and its connected number values in a way I could never have imagined 
possible. As a result, I have bonded with this subject: it has become a natural 
extension of who I am. 

I thought the time would never come, but after years of living with Chaldean 
numerology and its attendant gifts, I finally find myself equipped to fulfill my 
end of the unspoken agreement that I believe originated from Universe itself: to 
share this knowledge with you. 

I sincerely hope you enjoy the end result as much as I enjoyed being a part of 
its creation. 


What’s in a name? 
—Shakespeare (circa 1591), Romeo and Juliet 


[contents] 


one Chaldean 
Numerology Chart elow is the 
R original Chaldean chart that 
we will use for all calculations 
(you might find it helpful to 
hand-draw a version of your 
own). Here is where you will 
begin to discover and uncover 
the challenges, strengths, and 
lessons that are held within the 
mysterious and spiritual 
vibrations of your name and 


Lifepath. 
123456 7 8 
A BG OD E U O 
Q RC MH V Z P 
Y K L T N W 
I S X 
J 


Again, it is important that you use the name you are most commonly known 
by or use the most frequently. If you were born Terrence, but go by Terry, then 
Terry is the name you will use. Similarly, if you still carry a married name 
legally but use your maiden name for daily purposes, then your maiden name is 


the one you will use. The most important thing to remember here is that 
whatever you are called or call yourself on a regular basis is the energy you are 
projecting and is the only name of current importance. 


Numbers as Years 

A less obvious but nevertheless relevant aspect of names and numbers involves 
the number of years each letter covers. The numerical value of each letter also 
refers to the number of years it takes to transit that letter energy. For instance, 
my name totals to a sub 27, which means I completed the first energy transit of 
“Heather” at age 27. The second time I will complete the transit, I will be 54, 
and so on. When you look at the Chaldean chart, think of those numbers as 
years, not just energies. As you calculate and record your own name number and 
Lifepath results, keep in mind that each letter is commenting on the stages you 
will be going through from birth until, well, until you graduate from this Earth 
plane. 


A Word on the Process 
Once you have ascertained your particular numbers and letters and I have 
explained the various departments that your names, letters, and numbers fall 
into, we will then move into the ancient meanings of the symbols: first, the 
numbers, as they are, by comparison, quicker to learn and subsequently 
understand when referred to in the alphabetical section and second, the letters of 
the alphabet, which will add deeper dimensions to the meanings of the numbers. 

The process of analysis is highly individual and personal, so be sure to allow 
the connections or messages that come through when studying your numbers, 
subs or otherwise, a moment or two of contemplation, for every number in your 
chart is there for a reason and holds its own special message for you. All you 
need do is be open to the seemingly random thoughts that pass through your 
mind. 

Learning how to decipher and delve into the mysteries in your names is easier 
than it might sound. Just follow the categories I have listed and make a note of 
your results: they will explain how the different forms of your names can be 
separated and what they will reveal. Be sure to track your results because the 


final visual summary of your numbers will often show you connections that 
could otherwise be missed. 


[contents] 


two 


Chaldean 
Name Analysis 


How to Calculate Your Numbers 
irst, find yourself a large sheet of paper and a pen and write your first, 
middle, and last names in block letters across the top of the page. Further 
down, write the month (1—12) and day of your birth. Leave enough room above, 
below, between, and beside your names for notes and additions. Above each 
letter in your name, note the number that it falls under on the Chaldean chart as 
illustrated in the following example: 


1755141434145 


Now, total each of your names individually. 


JOHNADAMS MI TH 


1755141434145 


=18 =10 =17 


These sub numbers (18, 10, and 17) are now reduced to their single digit. 


JOHN ADAM SMI TH 


1755 1414 34145 


=18 =10 =17 


So we now know that John Adam Smith’s numbers are 9, 1, and 8. Follow the 
same procedure to reach your own set of numbers. If your sub number is still a 
double digit (e.g., 19/10), keep adding until you reach a single-digit number 
(10/1) unless it is a Master Number (11, 22, 33). 

As we move through the various categories in name analysis, note each 
category result beneath your main name heading. 


Master Numbers 11, 22, 33, etc. 

If by chance, one or more of your names total to a final sub number composed of 
Master Numbers like 11, 22, or 33 (which I will get into later), do not reduce 
these to single numbers. These are higher manifestations of the regular 1 through 
9 number scale and stand on their own. These are the most commonly seen 
Master Numbers, although they do run all the way up the number scale. (If you 
do happen to discover several Master Numbers in your names, you are among a 
rare group and will have access to elevated power sources, which will be 
explained later. Generally speaking, however, higher Masters are the exception 
rather than the rule.) So, a first name of 11 combined with a second name of 22 
will total to 33. This is the only time when the numerological law of addition 
does not apply. Master energies are impossible to “vibrate to” for long periods of 
time, so during off or down times, they will function at a lower connective level, 
or as what I call “quiet” numbers, like 2 (11), 4 (22), and 6 (33), respectively. 
But for purposes of calculating, leave these numbers as they fall and count them 
as final numbers. 


Your Daily Name 


Your Daily Name is the name you are most often called and known by and holds 
the most immediate impact when calculating your name energies; it is the overall 
energy that we project or allow others to see on a daily basis. Like the hardcover 
of a book, the Daily Name represents that which is seen from the outside. It is a 
semi-casual outer view which offers a bit of information while concealing the 
entire story and offering a layer of protection from damage or mistreatment. 

Much will certainly be revealed through a person’s first and last names, but 
the inner soul, or middle name, remains securely tucked away to be shown only 
to a special few. (Don’t worry if you do not have a middle name or if you have 
more than one—that will be covered, too.) To reach the final total for your Daily 
Name, simply add the digits of your first name to the digits of your last name. 
This will produce a combination composed of sub numbers, much as the 18 of 
John and the 17 of Smith form a sub number of 35. The Daily Name total for 
John Smith is reached by adding this sub number digit together (3+5), so his 
Daily Name is 8. This means that his general persona while functioning in the 
social realm would reflect the style of the average 8. 

Your own Daily Name will reflect your general outer presentation, 
characteristics, personality, challenges, and interaction styles. It is not only how 
you choose (even subconsciously) to be seen, it is also how others see you and 
the manner in which they will respond to you and to your projected energies. 


Sub Numbers 

All sub numbers comment on the inner workings of your personality, including 
your natural energies and how they might best be used in this lifetime. Subs 
often reveal your thoughts, intuitions, natural talents, secret longings, and habits 
and are good indicators of the platform that will serve you best and from which 
you may learn the most while on your journey through this life. For example, a 
sub number of 35, because of its high level of physical and mental agility and 
change, may indicate that a career involving activity and stimulation may be 
favorable to one that involves sitting in one spot for eight hours. The latter 
scenario does not honor the need to feed the mind and body (3), nor does it 
honor the hunger for independence and freedom (5). Sub numbers can shed light 
on different areas and in different ways. 


The general rule of thumb is that all subs count, however, the last sub (the one 
just prior to your final number) will hold the strongest message for you. If any of 
your names break down into more than one sub number (for example 48/12 = 3), 
consider the first sub number and what connections are there for you, but focus 
mainly on the last sub number (in this case, 12), before reaching the final name 
number as it often holds the most pertinent messages. Sometimes these messages 
will refer to actual events, sometimes they will comment on what type of job 
would make you happy, sometimes it will be a very personal message that will 
only make sense to you. All subs add different nuances and shades to the Total 
Name Number—they show the specific undertones of predispositions, 
preferences, personal needs, tendencies, unexpressed desires, and add that 
personal touch to your individual name energies. 


What If You Don’t Have a 
Sub Number in Your Name? 

If by chance, one or more of your name energies totals to a single number 
without reaching a sub number first, this is similar in meaning as having no 
middle name; it means this name energy is what it is. It is upfront about who it is 
and what it cares about. Consider the name Mia—this name is composed of 
4+1+1 and totals directly to 6. There is no 

sub number. In this event, the meaning of the number in question is very true to 
its traditional descriptions: the number 6 is all about love and home and 
community, and that is where it will perform the best—doing something that is 
much loved, spending time with those who are much loved, and assisting within 
the home and community in the most effective manner. This is true for any 
direct single digit; the number energy reached will encompass its traditional 
meanings without the sometimes distracting presence of sub energies. There are 
rarely hidden agendas or subversive qualities, and game playing is not usually a 
priority. A single-digit name energy is often a clean expression of its number 
value. 


Your Total Name Number 
Your Total Name Number is exactly what it sounds like: it is the grand total of 


all of your names combined and includes your first, middle, and last names. The 
final number of these combined names will offer insights into the potentialities 
your energy carried upon entering this Earth plane. This is how John Adam 
Smith’s Total Name Number calculations look: 


JOHN ADAM SMI TH 


1755 1414 34145 


=18 =10 =17 


Sub# Total Name# 
45 9 
18 9 


John’s first sub number is 45; his second (and main) sub number is 18 and his 
Total Name Number is 9. 

Your own grand total is the one used for assessing what your ultimate and 
“proper” potential is, which would be why it is also the energy that represents 
how we are viewed by official organizations or persons, like the government, the 
medical and court systems, or anything similar. Overall, though, it is indicative 
of what you could achieve in your life if you so choose. This is the gift Universe 
sent here with you—whether it is made use of or not is an individual decision, 
but the message of the main sub number (18 for John) is usually a nudge in the 
right direction. This sub number can point to what needs to be achieved, 


overcome, accepted, or honored before we can tune in to the Universal 
wavelength of our Total Name Number. (In case you are curious, John would 
need to investigate his own fundamental beliefs or patterns [4], and make some 
serious changes [5] thereto in order to overcome his need or urge [1] to feel in 
control [8] before he would be able or equipped to step into the rewarding, 
intuitive, creative, and spiritual aspects of his Total Name Number 9.) Whole 
Name Numbers 

Whole Name Numbers are the individual totals reached for each name much as 
the separate total for the name John is 9. (If you have completed your Daily 
Name and Total Name Numbers, you will already know your Whole Name 
Numbers.) Whether these number energies are connected to the first, middle, or 
last name, the Whole Name Number always refers to the complete addition (or 
the final digit, except in the case of Master Numbers) of an individual name. In 
the case of the first, or social, name, this energy will reflect the general essence 
of the image you project while out and about. The middle or “inner” Whole 
Name Number shows how you feel about your “self” or what your inner attitude 
is, while your last or domestic Whole Name Number will comment on your 
experiences while growing up or while married ... or, in the case of a name 
change, which energies you linked with by doing so. 

Whole Name Number calculations can serve you well in social settings when a 
last name is not known—the benefits of being able to determine someone’s 
overall social energy will become more evident as we proceed, but the point here 
is that any Whole Name Number, be it first, middle, or last, will outline the 
overall vibrational energy that is intrinsic to that name: the letters that shape the 
name will tell you much more about the person’s styles and tendencies. 

Having said that, let’s start with a few basics, like which aspect of you each 
Whole Name represents. 


Your First Name—Social Persona 

Your first name is always a mirror of how others see you, or how you present 
yourself in public—the energy you carry and project and the one people respond 
to on a primarily social and sometimes subconscious level. This will cover work, 
friends, neighbors, casual dates, parties, and other social gatherings. This is the 


face we wear when out shopping, going to the movies, sitting on the bus, or 
chatting with the waitress. This is not to say that we are not being ourselves; it 
simply says that we all feel somewhat vulnerable and would prefer not to display 
the sensitive parts of our individual souls for all to see. Our social name energy 
is a protective shield some wear lightly and discard easily, while others wear it 
rigidly and rarely remove it. Our first names serve as our social introduction 
energy so that we may interact with others with ease. Of course, on a deeper 
level, it also indicates our interests, our personalities, our likes and dislikes, our 
habits, and our “state” in life. 


Two First Names 

Should someone carry two first names, that person will have a choice (usually 
subconscious) of two different ways of presenting themselves, or will be able to 
adjust their behavior more readily to different situations. On the other hand, two 
first names can also be an unfortunate indicator of dual characters, or two 
distinct and different personalities that can emerge depending on the situation, 
person, or emotion involved. For example, a two-namer might be the nicest guy 
in the world, but while you both are enjoying a lovely meal at a restaurant, his 
steak arrives well done, but he ordered it rare. This two-namer may then 
suddenly display his alter energy and embarrass you right under the table, and 
maybe even right out the back door of the restaurant. Such unexpected and 
perhaps out-of-character behaviors can easily connect back to the name that 
carries the more powerful vibration (like an 8) and be demonstrative of its 
energies. 

However, the majority of us have only one first name, and even if you have 
two, it just makes you a more complex and enigmatic personality. If you feel 
uncomfortable with one of your names, trust that feeling and drop the use of it. 

In a nutshell, a double first name is still reflective of your social energy, what 
you do with it, and how it appears and feels to others. 


Your Middle Name—!Inner or Soul Energy 

Your middle name, as I have mentioned, is perhaps the most important energy in 
the entire analysis, for it reveals the truth about your inner soul. It shows hidden 
talents, true motivations, desires, and the level your soul is at or is trying to reach 


—it is like the place we all can be alone with our “self.” Often it will reveal 
strange shadow messages from divine realms, explain certain feelings or 
yearnings, or simply solve puzzles a person has been aware of but unable to put 
together on their own for whatever reasons. Sometimes, though, the middle 
name can provide invaluable validation by confirming that the direction being 
pursued or the path being traveled is the right one, despite the poor condition of 
the road. Strong spiritual encouragement gets to the heart of the matter and 
offers insight into the true character and into where and how each person’s 
unique gifts might be best utilized, both for the good of others and also for the 
good of the self. The inner essence often reveals insecurities, severe self-doubt, 
and periodic setbacks; in fact, this is where the key to freeing ourselves from 
“jail” is often found—it can show you what is missing from your life and which 
key will get you out the quickest. Here is also where personal attributes will 
make themselves known and usually in no uncertain terms, which can also 
inspire the warmth of recognition. Unacknowledged or buried strengths often 
come to light and are finally and happily owned. 

An important link to look for involves the middle name and the energies found 
in your Lifepath, or day and month of birth. When connected or even identical 
vibrations are evident (for example, my middle name and day of birth are both 
10 values), this will point to specific talents or abilities or goals that have every 
possibility of being realized once the ego has been accepted for what it is—the 
human side of the equation. You are undoubtedly familiar with one of my 
favorite sayings—we are spirits having a human experience and not the other 
way around. But the fact is that the human ego is strong, sometimes stronger 
than faith. Should you find this link in your numbers (and even if you don’t), 
know that no matter how difficult present circumstances may appear (especially 
if you are following your dream), honorable quests and intentions are always 
supported by Universe, although it can prove difficult for spirit to out-talk ego. 
And truth be told, this is what the entire process of analysis is about: ego versus 
spirit. Even the most spiritually aware suffer periodic struggles between faith 
and doubt; the latter promotes doubt that anything good will happen and then 
doubt it when it does. After all, how long can a good thing last? We doubt that 
we truly deserve anything good; in fact, we doubt that we are even good people. 


We doubt that others really understand us—and wouldn’t they run for the hills if 
they did? Doubt is the underminer of faith. 

This is where the struggle lies—between human emotions and spiritual beliefs. 
Name analysis can reassure us that we do, indeed, have goodness at our core, 
even if it is deeply buried. Since we are spirits engaged in human experiences, 
we are not perfect; we do need to accept our human elements and frailties—they 
are an important part of us and of our lessons. This is a large part of Chaldean 
numerology: to accept the lessons provided us and to accommodate, absorb, and 
grow with them rather than waste time trying to explain away, ignore, or justify 
our negatives. The middle name is often home to hidden gems and revelations 
that can serve as catalysts to awakenings of all kinds. 


Two Middle Names 

Like the first name, the middle can also be composed of two or more names 
and this will indicate the presence of two (or more) separate energies; and since 
these energies are on the inside and not at a social level, this indicates the 
presence of two diverse energies or directions in the deep psyche. Put even more 
succinctly, the more middle names a person has, the more confused and 
confusing they may be to themselves and others because of assorted and 
sometimes contrary energies conflicting within. In such cases, a close look at the 
individual energies will usually identify a central conflict (for example, the 
forceful 1 may not quite jive with the tender and loving 6), which can be 
addressed and even resolved once recognized. Occasionally, of course, a 
hyphenated (first or) middle name can hold two different yet positive energies 
that can work quite well together. On the other hand, two inner energies can 
conflict with one another, in which case, dropping one or the other name can 
help soothe the inner fluctuations. 


What If You Don’t Have a Middle Name? 

The absence of a middle name can actually prove beneficial; it means you are 
very upfront about who you are—what you see is what you get. If you are a 
nasty badass, you are a nasty badass and make no attempt to hide it. Or, you can 
be very regal, collected, and reserved and that too will show your true nature 
shining through. Folks with only first and last names tend to say it like it is and 


appear fairly straightforward and genuine; whether that be a positive or negative 
will depend on the numbers, letters, and Lifepath energies connected to the 
name. 


Your Last Name—Domestic Influence 

Your last name is related to the domestic history of the family, or the male 
hierarchy. As such, it is of lesser import, as it comments only on the energy 
present when you joined the circle, so to speak, in much the same manner as the 
year of birth is of least import, as it merely comments on what phase the Earth 
was in when you made your initial appearance here. Obviously, both energies 
will affect a person, but are not as important as who they are, which is reflected 
in the first and middle names and day and month of birth. The domestic name 
often holds the source of major life lessons, especially if the last name is 
inherited from male relatives or, put another way, if it is the name you grew up 
with. Here is where the foundational building blocks are laid that will influence 
adult interactions and belief systems. These energies, however, are not you— 
they were already here when you arrived. 

If your last name is your married name, this is reflective of the male hierarchy 
that originates with your husband and his ancestors and again, this is not your 
energy. It will, however, affect you and your family, so making yourself aware 
of its frequencies can assist you in communicating with your family members, 
especially when touchy subjects arise, such as between yourself and your spouse 
and even your children. 


Lifepath Number 
Lifepath Numbers tell you what you are here to learn, to become, to do. It will 
highlight the direction you are to take in order to achieve your goals or lessons 
while here, and it is not unusual for Lifepath lessons to introduce a few harsh 
learning curves, learning curves that will be repeated if the point is not taken or 
simply not understood. This will manifest as negative cycles that repeat 
themselves: some will point out your need to take responsibility; some will point 
out your need to honor your creativity; some will advise you against living 
lifestyles that are oil to your water. The possibilities are as significant and as 


unique as you are. Whatever the message of your Lifepath, you will find a 
direction therein—a confirmation of something you already suspected or a push 
down that road you have always wanted to investigate. If you have ever 
wondered why you are here, your Lifepath will help you find the answer. 

The Lifepath Number is found in the combination of your day and month of 
birth. For example, let’s say your birthday is September 5. You would calculate 
it as follows: September + 5 

9 (month) + 5 = 14/5 

Your Lifepath would be 5 and your sub number would be 14. 

Ideally, you should be able to link one of your main names or totals to your 
Lifepath Number or a component thereof. This simply intensifies and focuses 
your energy and ability to complete your lessons while here and also comments 
on the more mysterious aspect of this art: it is almost inevitable that you will see 
repeating numbers in your own chart. Don’t worry, however, if this is not the 
case. While it is usually a fairly simple matter to adjust a name to line up with a 
Lifepath energy, a Lifepath Number that stands apart from all name energies (for 
instance, it is the only major number of its kind in your entire chart) is not 
necessarily a bad thing—it just indicates the presence of something that will 
need to be honored at some point in your life. For example, imagine a woman 
whose chart is filled with the loving number 6 essence, but her Lifepath is the 
driving force of number 1. This woman seems utterly domestic and devotes 
herself with complete focus to her home and kids for twenty-odd years before 
(out of the blue, her friends say) starting her own company, into which she pours 
the same level of devotion that she afforded her kids. In short order, her business 
venture becomes highly successful. 

This woman had to honor the loving domesticity of the 6 in her chart as much 
as she did the driving force of her number 1 Lifepath. 

That said, keep in mind that Lifepath Numbers can indicate a lifestyle that is 
already being pursued, and as such, it serves as a strong confirmation that the 
road you are upon is the correct one. This is usually the case when such 
confirmation is indeed, needed. 

The flip side of the coin involves a kick-in-the-pants kind of energy. This 
occurs when an awakening of sorts is required. This can come in the form of 


something that has been submerged or subjugated, which needs to be 
honored, and the Lifepath will call attention to it in no uncertain terms. 
Oftentimes, there will be a sense of relief and almost of having been given 
permission to pursue that which the heart truly desires or a wry recognition in 
the truth of its message. 

Either way, you will know what yours is saying. It will resonate with you in a 
way that will be undeniable. 


Your Day of Birth 
The actual day you were born is also very important: it is almost like your main 
sub number for your Lifepath, but its message is more personal, more intimate. 
This is the supreme comment on the single-most influential energy that is 
personal to you—it celebrates your introduction. It’s like your “coming out” or 
debut (into reality), and its ramifications cannot be understated. If your day of 
birth falls in the 1 to 9 scale, those energies are fairly straightforward, as they are 
composed of single and fairly direct energies. If, however, your day of birth 
holds two digits, here is how you will read them. First, look at the initial number, 
which can only be a 1, 2, or 3. Ascertain the meanings for the number specific to 
you. Then look at the second number for its connections. And finally, look at the 
number that both reduce to. For example, if your day of birth is the 25th, you 
would consider the meanings of the 2 (the impact of couples, pairs, and 
relationships) and the 5 (changes, freedom, experimentation of the senses). 
These two energies suggest that while relationships of all kinds are important 
(2), they may take a back seat to the desire to explore, to travel, to chase 
stimulation and freedom (5). The final total of the 25 takes us to a Lifepath 
Number 7, which is a completely different vibe in that it rules the functions of 
the brain and relates to intense and investigative thought—this is an 
introspective and generally reserved energy. This suggests that the Lifepath will 
ultimately lead down a new path: one of logic, practicality, introspection, 
meditation, and wisdom. There is much more to the 7 than this, but we will save 
that for later. Suffice it to say that this example shows two opposing forces: one 
is changeable and even thrill-seeking (25), while the other is controlled, 
dignified, analytical, and possibly (depending on the development stage of the 


individual) mystical, imaginative, and spiritual (7). So the struggle here might be 
whether to allow the senses to dictate the direction of the mind or to allow the 
mind to dictate the direction of the senses. 

When you have calculated your own Lifepath, simply apply the number 
meaning to your own life. Follow your intuition and the connections and 
messages will come. 

Remember to allow yourself the time for contemplation as your brain knows 
all and is highly attuned to the receipt of thought-form messages. Something you 
read today might not connect until two days from now. 


Your Current Energy Phase 

Your current energy phase will indicate where you are in terms of transiting your 
name energy, as shown in your (first) sub number for each name; this is the 
number of years the energies in each name will take to pass through. Each letter 
holds its own nuances and characteristics, and the corresponding number value 
expands its meaning. When calculated, your “code” will signal the prevailing 
forces currently at play in your life, and by truly understanding their 
characteristics and tone, you will be equipped to understand and relate and 
possibly align yourself and your actions to these energies and use them to attain 
the best possible results. Here is an example of how to calculate your current 
energy phase, and we will use our old friend, John, once again as an example. 


JOHNADAMS MI TH 


1755141434145 


=18 (years) =10 (years) =17(years) 


Let’s say John is 40 years of age. Since the main sub number of his first name 
is 18, we automatically know that he has transited the energies of John at least 
twice (18+18=36), which would leave him back at the J at the age of 37, which 
covers 1 year, so at 40, he would be in the 3rd year of the O letter energy. 
Looking at his middle name and following the same process leaves us in the last 
year of the M cycle while his last name completes the code with another M. So 


his current code is OMM or 744, which are the number values assigned to each 
letter. Added together, this code reduces to 15/6. Since we have already talked 
about the number 6, you will know that family, domesticity, community, 
nurturing, and love, or the lack of these elements, will be the focus for John 
during this energy phase and that the forces of change (15) will also play a role. 
Again, the way phases are read and the meanings attached will become clearer as 
we proceed, but in the meanwhile, follow the above pattern to uncover your own 
energy phase and record it for future reference. 


Your Identity Initials 

Here is yet another code of sorts and can be called a shorthand version of all that 
you are and also of the (usually) three main influences of your life, which makes 
sense since initials are composed of your Cornerstone energies. Follow the same 
method of calculation to reach your Initial energy as you did with your current 
energy phases: simply add the number values of your initials together, reduce 
them, and look at the sub number and final digit as well as the letter energies to 
glean more information about your complete shorthand handle. (Mine is HAL, 
the total of which also matches my first name number of 9.) Try this yourself 
and see if your Identity Initials connect anywhere to your name chart or Lifepath 
number. Connections will continue to appear as you compile your various 
numbers and codes. 


Predominant Letters 
The highest quantity of repeating letters in your entire name will tell you all 
about the prevailing event energies that have the strongest effects for you—their 
influences never really abate, especially if there are four or more of one-letter 
energy present and more so if one or two are Cornerstones. For example, if your 
name contains one C, you will know that you are a natural communicator of 
some kind and that the urge to investigate this angle will manifest at some point 
in your life (count through your name in years to ascertain when a certain phase 
will be highlighted for you). If, however, your name contains four of these letters 
and one is a Cornerstone, you will know that the meaning of the C will be 
emphasized and will create a necessity to use your communication skills in your 


daily life. So, if you’ve always wanted, for example, to write music and sing or 
become a photographer, the multi-C would be telling you to start doing it as 
opposed to just thinking about it. The more repetitions, the more important the 
messages held in the letter (or letters) will be. 


Predominant Numbers 

The highest number of specific numbers in your entire name offers yet another 
view into your name. This one involves an energy or speed snapshot. Let’s say 
you have six number 1 values in your handle. It would be a safe bet to say that 
you are not likely to give up and throw in the towel when things get rough—you 
are the survivor, and survivors don’t just lie down and die. Let’s take this further 
and presuppose that your second-highest number quantity is the number 6: this 
suggests that while giving up is not an option, neither is the search for a loving 
and nurturing home and partner and all that this would entail. Looking at my 
own numbers, there are a total of seven number 1 values (four of which are in 
my Soul energy), which means that, thankfully, I am a survivor. There is a core 
energy within that will not allow me to give up or give in. I will keep going 
despite setbacks. What do yours say about you? 


Words in Names 

If by chance your name contains another name or word, the meaning of the 
attached sound energy often points out a subtle message. Consider my first 
name: it contains the words “heat” and “her,” which confirms my major issue 
with heat—I hate it. This peculiarity roots back to my childhood when being hot 
all the time earned me the nickname of “Heater.” On the other hand, as I grow 
older, the reverse is also becoming true; the cold bites through my bones in a 
way it never has before, therefore, “heat her” has taken on a whole new, and just 
as accurate meaning—but I still hate heat! 

Look carefully at your names and be open to sub-level energy messages. If 
you should find some, listen to what they are saying to you. It may be nothing of 
major consequence, but it may also provide confirmation of peculiar details, 
much as my “heat” and “her” does, or, it can refer to something more important. 
Again, this is something that only you will truly connect with. 


How to Read Your Name 

Like reading a sentence, the letters in your name are read from left to right. Each 
letter symbol flows into the next and creates a pattern of energies. For example, 
let’s look at the letter energies in the word HEAT. The basic meaning for each 
letter is as follows: the H is a ladder that offers two different directions—up or 
down. The E is sheer Energy that accentuates and exaggerates, especially that 
which comes before it. The A creates a new and original force. The T is 
additional in nature; therefore, it “adds to” or “makes stronger.” 

So, the word HEAT is read like this: we have a rise in something (H) that is 
beyond the norm (E) that creates a considerable force (A) and keeps building 
(T). 

Taking this further, both the H and E are 5 values, which are connected to the 
senses and the stimulation of those senses. The A is a 1 value, which begins 
something new and points to survival, and the T is a 4 value, which refers to 
fundamental issues and includes the health of the body. We all know that HEAT 
involves rising temperatures that are inherently excessive and that it can easily 
create a heavy and almost-unbearable force, which will only get heavier as the 
heat increases. This HEAT can negatively impact the body and its senses, and 
when it soars to unbearable degrees, it can even threaten human survival. 

Your name is also a blueprint. Look to the individual letter meanings and their 
supportive numbers for descriptives and then link those elements together. This 
can take some practice, but it can be done; feel the letters in your name, link 
them together, and trust your intuition when doing so. 


The Love Thing 


Have you ever wondered about the connections between yourself and your 
mate? Here is a way to find out about the vibrations and, indeed, the lessons and 
challenges that have brought the two of you together. 

There are two ways to do this: the first is to add your first names together and 
the second is to add your Daily Names together. Your first name additions will 
address your personal interactions with one another while the second will 
comment on the likely outcome or result of your union. Each method takes both 
the final sub number and single digit into consideration when looking for 


messages. 

Let’s say that your first name additions total to a 6. This would mean that the 
two of you respond and react to each other with loving and caring energies, but 
that care must be taken to avoid each becoming so absorbed in the other that 
individual identities are blurred. Taken further, let’s say that the combination of 
your Daily Names totals to a 5; this would indicate the need for freedom, 
independence, changes, and sensory stimulation on both sides. Needless to say, 
this combination can easily indicate an ultimate separation—the 5 energy is 
usually not overly attached to domestic bliss and routine. If, however, each 
partner can honor the other’s need for personal space, this union can flow with 
the changes of the 5 while also providing each other the safe haven of the 6. 


Extended Connecting Numbers 
Extended connecting numbers are to be found in a variety of areas that can 
include everything from the total count of the actual letters in your name to 
addresses and phone numbers. Write down the last four numbers in each of your 
landlines or cell phone numbers (the area codes and first three numbers are 
excluded, as the area and exchange codes are shared by many others—only the 
last four numbers connect directly to you). Add those numbers until they reduce 
to a single digit. These calculations will tell you about the energy surrounding 
each number. This can also be applied to your home and work address (include 
the street name as well, but do pay close attention to the actual numbers in the 
address), your Social Security/Insurance number, your driver’s license, license 
plate, charge card numbers (again, check online for the actual numbers that point 
to you; for example, one company’s card shows that the first six numbers are 
multiple-use and that the last one is also a reference number—hence, the nine 
numbers between the two are your personal account vibrations), bank accounts 
(again, stick to your actual account number)—any number that has a personal 
connection to you. See how many of those numbers correspond with numbers 
from your chart. If there are any number energies that do not fit, look closely at 
the things they represent. For instance, if a prominent number in your personal 
chart is a 6 (the gentle and loving domesticity), but you are living in an 8 energy 
home, you might be more comfortable elsewhere, as the 8 energy generally 


carries overtones of power, control, and authority, which can override and 
overwhelm a gentle 6 energy. 

To be aware of the number energies that constantly surround us is revelatory 
in itself and often provides answers to questions one may not even be aware 
need asking. Take a serious look at the numbers before moving into that new 
house, accepting a new name (through marriage, for example), naming your 
child, hiring an employee, or simply picking out a new PIN number at the bank. 
And always remember your own numbers so you will have a point of reference. 

The numbers and letters in your life affect you in direct and indirect ways. 
Consider even the date on which you’ve decided to begin a new project or set up 
that all-important meeting. Do you choose the 1st (good) or the 9th (not so 
good)? You want to ask that special person out for the first time? Try it on the 
6th, the energy of love, rather than the 5th, which, while being an energy of 
communication and sensory input, is also the energy of change and non- 
commitment. 

Chaldean numerology is a tool of many uses. It can be used to do some deep 
digging into your own soul or to measure the energies of others. It can offer 
commentaries on people, places, and things, or just tell you about the essence 
behind your favorite numbers. 

Its uses are countless and invaluable. Just keep this book nearby and use it as a 
reference. 


... perfect numbers, like perfect [people] are very rare ... 
— René Descartes (1596-1650) 


[contents] 


three 


The Numbers 


l n order to illustrate the dynamics of the number scale, I have included brief 
snapshots of the journey of one man and how he started out alone, met his 
mate, fathered a child, built a home, adjusted to changes, contemplated his 
existence, reached a spiritual balance, and finally, left this plane of reality. This 
Lone Man travels through the vibrational pictures and experiences that are 
inherent to the number scale and serves to bring the subtleties involved to light. 
He is a simple tool designed to provide understanding of the number energies 
that are really just a narrative of the journey of mankind— from beginning to end 
and back again. (This is not the only system to do so—the Major Arcana of the 
Tarot also follows this same route, something that I will expand upon as we 
proceed.) In other words, each number introduces new elements to those that 
came before, so the 5 for example will be a compilation of the qualities and 
characteristics of the numbers 1 through 4 while also introducing the specific 
vibrations of the 5. 

You will find the traditional characteristics, as well as the Lifepaths and 
challenges for each number, listed at the end of its section (Master Number 
Lifepaths are listed under Master Numbers). 


Nothing and Everything: The Majesty of Zero (0) 
The zero was not considered a number by the ancient Chaldeans because it held 
no quantity and therefore no purpose, but in keeping with progress and 
amalgamation, I have included it here, as its importance cannot be denied and its 
uses are instrumental and necessary in analysis. 

The subject of the 0 (shared in the letter O) is often up for debate: is it a 
number or not? Whether it is a member of the set of “natural numbers” or “real 
numbers” has nothing to do with anything—the zero or cipher plays a pivotal 
and impressive role in numerology and in our very existence, and, as such, it is 


worthy of a paragraph or two. The intensity and potential of the 0 is not to be 
underestimated. 

The 0 contains both mystical and multi-level dynamics that defy simple 
explanation. Its mathematical essence is “no thing”—nothing, zip, and zero 
(00.00)—however, with a tiny addition, it can become everything (1,000,000). 
The symbol itself has no beginning and no end and its connection to eternity is 
characterized by the figure 8 laid on its side, which forms the lemniscate—the 
symbol of infinity. One of the more 
prominent manifestations of its meaning can be found in the matching circles of 
a pair of wedding rings: one hopes the union lasts forever. It is also the big fat 0 
on a test or its complete opposite, 100 percent. It is the bubbles you blow in the 
bathtub, the drain down which the water flows, and the eyeballs staring back at 
you in the mirror. It is the O in Open and the O in clOsed. It is the shape of an 
atom, a human cell, a donut, a crop circle, and a lollipop. It is the protective 
circle cast by the metaphysician and the circle of yin and yang worn about many 
necks. 

While the 0 is practically limitless in its applications, it does seem to focus on 
either the increase or decrease of matter. It is power, intensity, and creation, but 
it can take away as easily as it gives. 

I have always noticed connections between the energies of numbers and the 
meanings of the 22 Major Arcana cards in the Tarot deck. 

The first Major Arcana tarot card, the Fool, is numbered 0 and represents the 
world of possibilities that are open and waiting to be discovered. The Fool 
(complete with two O vibrations) is the blank slate that exists as man steps into 
the picture. This energy is rife with anticipation and prospects: choices in 
direction are imminent and any actions taken will lead to results of some kind. 

Since the figure on this card appears either oblivious to or not worried by the 
cliff at his feet, he is often seen as a brave risk-taker. He can also be seen as a 
flat-out fool, for who else would be watching the sky while they are negotiating 
a dangerous cliff? The truth lies somewhere in the middle: this Fool is not a fool 
at all—he is fully aware of where he is and what he is doing; after all, he has 
thought long enough on the matter to have brought along his necessary 
possessions (in the little bag) and his loyal 


companion (the little dog). The deeper truth of this | i maro 


LE FOU 


image is found in the symbolic rose he holds: 
roses are usually connected to love or emotions, 
and his gaze heavenward is simply illustrative of 
his strong level of faith; he is looking to Universe 
for guidance and trusts this guidance implicitly. 
The Fool is not stupid. He is simply following his 
dreams and his intuition and is preparing for new 
beginnings ... and any new beginning involves an 
element of risk. This figure has no visible history; 
therefore any forward movement will introduce 


scenarios in which anything is possible. 
Which sets the stage perfectly for Act 1 to 
begin. 


Sv 
My, 


DER NARR DE DWAAS 


Number One (1): Beginning of All— 

Original Force 
Here we will open with our Lone Man; consider him the caveman of this story. 
He has no one to turn to for aid or advice. He is alone, a single entity who has 
“no thing” in his past; therefore, he is the initiator of all things. Our Lone Man 
is, at heart, a survivor, and in true keeping with his instincts and intuition 
(although he may not recognize them as such), he must provide himself with 
basic necessities such as food and shelter. He must do for himself, as there is no 
one else to do for him—here is the individual who is tightly bound to his natural 
ego and instincts. He is the one who begins the search for experiences and 
achievement. 

The number 1 is masculine in its approach, which means it has all of the 
attributes society often assigns to successful men. The 1 is brave, ambitious, 
goal-oriented, pro-active, and confident. The 1 energy displays a strength of will 
that often lands that person at the top of the heap, even if getting there takes a 
while—the 1 often has to start over from square 1. But if the person with this 
number essence finds and sets its focus on a project, position, or person, they 
will move buildings, hills, or mountains in order to reach their goal. To say that 


the 1 is motivated would be a slight understatement: the pure, “1 and only” 
forerunner to the entire number system will stop at almost nothing to get what 
they want if they want it badly enough. Progress is what matters, and if 
compassion is not thrown into the mix, a strong 1 vibration can become 
dominated and directed by the ego, and even fail to notice the damage their trail- 
blazing attitudes and activities can leave in their wake. Most number 1s will 
display some level of these qualities at some point, however, the more number 1 
values in a name, the more exaggerated these qualities will become. While the 1 
is all about moving forward and experiencing as much as they can about 
everything, they can also come across as arrogant, self-centered, unemotional, 
and even selfish while doing so—but that is the nature of the vibration. This 
energy is gifted with an insatiable and endless curiosity—“initial glows” can and 
do wear off—so old jobs, stagnant relationships, and boring hobbies can all be 
up for review ... constantly. After all, there are so many other things to 
investigate and experience. This tendency can leave many projects unfinished, 
lessons not learned, and friendships unattended. 

Since the 1 can be seen as somewhat self-absorbed, intimate relationships can 
be difficult propositions as well, for as much as this energy loves to be in love, it 
is the idea of love, the perfect ideal of love that the number 1 chases. 
Unfortunately, reality rarely lives up to fantasy and the 1 often keeps looking ... 
and looking ... and looking. Attempting emotional involvement with the average 
(multi)1 can be a lonely and confusing challenge, as the 1 character will blow 
hot and cold and draw close before pulling away. If, by chance, the 1 should find 
something or someone of interest, there their attention will focus, and quite 
intently. Unfortunately, their focus usually shifts. They may return after a time, 
but the damage will have been done. This can make committed, straightforward 
love unions, marriages, and even friendships a struggle at times. Work and other 
interests tend to take precedence over intimacy, and since the 1 is driven to 
succeed, constant action and busy-ness can become repetitive to the point of 
predictability. 

So, if you are looking for a soft, cuddly lovey-dove who will rub your feet 
each night, bring you dinner (cook it, too?), lend a sympathetic ear, and offer 
genuine, gentle advice before tucking you into bed, I would strongly suggest you 


look elsewhere, perhaps to the domestic 6 or the couple-based 2. 

Perhaps paradoxically, this number is also open to the instinctual aspects of 
survival and, therefore, usually does not question similar messages from 
intuition. This actually helps to explain why the 1 advances and achieves: they 
follow the lead laid out for them and do not doubt its source—although they may 
well think that the source of such messages is self-generated. 

From an aesthetic and spiritual point of view, the single, straight line a man 
might draw in the sand to indicate him “self” is appropriate to his condition. It is 
the basis for the first-person singular and incorporates the “I” as in the self and 
the ego: “I be,” “I exist,” and “I am.” On a more evolved level, the I illustrates 
the link between God and man. It is the umbilical cord that connects us to “out 
there” and thereby allows us to have hope and faith, and to experience love. 
Intuition is the voice of Universe and connects us to the bigger picture, whether 
consciously realized or not. 

An almost-perfect example of the concept of Original Force is to be found 
when contemplating and analyzing the scientific term used to describe the twin 
coils that hold our individual strands of DNA: this particular abbreviation even 
totals to a 10 (1). This is truly a unique, progressive, original, and creative force 
that dictates the human code and yet assigns incredible differences in each 
person so they become true individuals. As such, it is the ideal representation of 
the Original Force of the number 1. 

The number 1 personality can be almost overwhelming in terms of their 
personal power, creative abilities, and ultimate achievements, but this usually 
only comes after considerable experimentation with a variety of careers. When 
they do find their focus, usually later in life, it will often involve a unique or 
different topic, method, activity, or trade. It is truly an original and is drawn to 
all things inspiring. The dull and boring do not attract the number 1—they prefer 
anything that fits into the categories of different, unusual, odd, bizarre, or 
downright weird. 

When the Original Force of the number 1 is understood, harnessed, and 
directed, the results can be awe inspiring. Here you might find an award-winning 
architect who quietly runs homes for the needy, a top military advisor who is 
also a volunteer teacher to the disabled, or an honest-to-goodness billionaire who 


lives in a small community home and anonymously donates a large percentage 
of his income to humanitarian charities. These number 1 vibrations will have 
consciously realized the spiritual side of existence and combined it with the 
natural force of their ruling number. The point is that if a 1 energy can gather all 
of its power and steer it in the direction decided, the results can be dramatic. 
This energy, especially when compounded with more 1 values, can become one 
of the most penetrating and compelling forces in the numbers game. The pure 
will, intent, intuitive prowess, and creative abilities contained in the number 1 
will give them the strength to survive, the drive to keep going, and the 
compelling urge to escape, all of which come in very handy if 1s should find 
themselves in dire circumstances or abusive situations. Rarely will a strong 
number 1 be held down for long. They will find a way out. 


I find it more than interesting that the Major 


IL MAGO | THE MAGICIAN 


Arcana tarot card valued by the number 1 is the 
Magician, who is nothing if not dynamic, focused, 
and in charge of himself and his destiny. This 
figure has all of the tools he needs to accomplish 
his goals and takes action both in his mind and 
with his body to create that which he desires. The 
Magician is resourceful, intuitive, curious, and 
adventurous, and he moves ahead with purpose 
and focus. One might say that this figure has a 
remarkable level of power at his or her disposal 
(ancient societies may have labeled this energy as 
a witch; however, modern-day translations would 


be more in line with practicing the Law of 
DER MAGIER DE MAGIER 


Attraction) and anything is possible. 


The Major Arcana tarot card of the Sun (number 
19) reduces to an Original Force number 1 as well. It represents energetic 
creation and new beginnings. In fact, the Sun is the most sublime of all number 1 
energies. It is like a gigantic light bulb in the sky without which the world, her 
people, her animals, and her crops would perish. The world would plunge into 
darkness and nothing would ever be right or normal again. The Sun is the life- 


giver (the term “the Sun” totals to a 10/1, as well) and is the consummate 
example of the energy behind the Original Force number 1; it allows us to 
survive. As previously mentioned, its number is 19, and this combines the 
Original Force with repeated endings and beginnings, which makes absolute 
sense as we all know that the Sun rises and sets ... for all of us. 

Yet another Major Arcana tarot card, called the 


Wheel of Fortune (number 10), also reduces to the LE SOLE E 


power and originality of the 1. Its overall tone is 
one of unexpected change. It appears when one 
situation changes rather quickly, thus introducing 
something completely new into the life (“Fortune” 
totals to a 10/1, as well—and we all know that it 
can bring good or bad with it). The Wheel is ever- 
turning and represents the ongoing theme of 
endings and beginnings we all experience. The ; 
Wheel speaks to starting new phases, dealing with 
changes, and adjusting to the surprises life can 
throw at you when you least expect it—all of 
which result in necessary shifts in place or 


circumstance, be it for the positive or the negative EEEE 


(notice that the four corner figures are all reading 
from what I call the “book of life” in which all things are possible). On another 
level, the number 10 depicted does hold a positive message, which is that the 
Wheel often brings success and reward: picture spinning the Wheel your whole 
life and finally hitting the jackpot. This ties into the meaning of the 10, which we 
will get into later; for now, let’s just say that it indicates rewards after a long 
struggle and achievements that can affect mankind in a small or rather large way. 

All of these Major Arcana energies support the meaning of the one-and-only 1 
in their own unique ways. 


Multi 1 Values 
I have found the unadulterated and “uncut” multiple 1 energy to be similar to the 
proverbial bull in a china shop. This refers to the purest form of this energy, 


unaffected by any nearby influential or softening | RUOTA X THE WHEEL 


LA RUEDA 


letters. When the 1 appears more than four times 
in a chart (including within the name itself and 
also as Whole, Daily, or Total Name and Lifepath 
numbers), it compounds the pure thrust of this 
Original Force energy, which can be quite 
intimidating and even ruthless. Curiously, while 
the number 1 is generally non-demonstrative and 


non-emotional, at least on the surface (being first 
theoretically means having no frame of reference), 
the 1 can be quite the talker, very charming, and 
socially active. However, despite this apparent 
openness, the 1 often finds it difficult to share 
deep emotions; they maintain a certain distance 


even while apparently deeply involved and wear a | °*S*42_ © RAD VAN FORTUIN 
protective mask on a daily basis. The presence of 
too many 1s translates into the inability to truly immerse into an intimate/love 
relationship due to the aforementioned lack of a frame of reference. There is 
hope for the lonely 1: if they are successful in learning their challenges well and 
learning to control their ego, the 1 can become compassionate, intuitive, and 
loving with a level of faith and openness that could transform the 1 into a truly 
warmhearted energy and something of a rare breed. 

When a chart is filled with 1s, this indicates someone who will try and try 
again, as mentioned. The 1 is a new Start, so it stands to reason that many 1s 
show the necessity for many new starts. This is the true “tell” of the survivor. 


A Chart that Holds No 1 Values 

This can indicate a personality who needs to tap into their own abilities and 
move forward with confidence and determination. A lack of 1 values can also 
indicate a personality who will back down more often than not and who 
possesses no particular goals in life. There is a marked lack of drive and 
motivation, but this is not necessarily a bad thing—it just indicates a softer 
personality. 


TranNititnanal MAanannarintr inn 


IIAUIUUIIAI VESuIpuves 
Typical traits of the 1 energy include ambitious, determined, progressive, active, 
instinctual, curious, original, and creative. More negative descriptions include 
superior, arrogant, impatient, controlling, ego-driven, and sometimes cruel and 
abusive. 


Words that Total to Number 1 

The following words demonstrate the very essence of an Original Force in their 
meanings and totals. Consider the following as individual forces: death, soul, 
spirit, faith, passion, devil—and even the core words used to describe the 1 
energy: origin and forces. 


Lifepath for the Number 1 

Anyone with a number 1 Lifepath will be or become a leader of some type, 
whether that is as a supervisor of an office or as the owner of a multi-million- 
dollar business. The number 1 Lifepath is all about striving and starting over as 
many times as required to achieve success. As a pioneering vibration, the 1 often 
has difficulty in intimate relationships and often prefers to live alone (and if in a 
relationship, it is advisable that the number 1 have a room or a space that they 
can call their own). The number 1 needs to understand that they are not 
necessarily here to build a family and home. They are here to accomplish 
something—something they can leave behind when they go, and preferably 
something that will prove beneficial in some way to mankind. Commitment to 
that aim or goal is a large part of this Lifepath lesson. 


Challenge for the Number 1 

The challenge for the number 1 is to overcome the ego through the use of the 
intuition and acknowledgement of a higher power or element. The 1 needs to 
“gentle” itself through connections with others and learn to allow emotional 
vulnerability—they need to learn how to drop their guard. The number 1 is 
challenged to never give up on doing and pursuing that which they love, for it is 
there that the 1 will find the success they seek. 


Quirky Phrase to Remember the 1 By 


1 Anorv Queen Yells In Tail 


This should help you remember that number 1 represents the letters A, Q, Y, I, 
and J. 


Number Two (2): Pairs and Duality 
Okay, so now our Lone Man has found some food and has built a shelter. As 
mentioned, he is alone. This is where the energy of the number 2 comes in, and 
it comes in the form of a woman who suddenly appears at the border of his 
campsite; he is no longer alone. Now there is another person involved and the 
lone man has now become part of a duo or couple. The jump from one person to 
two introduces a completely new situation. 

As with any combination of original or unique energies (combination of 
1+1=2 or male/female), there will be natural conflict, as each have different 
personalities, likes and dislikes, preferences, interests, methods of 
communication, traits, and idiosyncracies. In a “couple” type of situation, these 
differences can manifest in many ways. One sleeps late, the other rises early. 
One prefers silence, the other is constantly chattering. One is quite untidy, the 
other is a neat freak. The possibilities are endless. As you can imagine, conflict 
can easily become an issue and a duel based on duality can occur. The key word 
here is compromise, and it is one of the challenges for the number 2. 

However, luckily for our Lone Man and for contemporary man/woman, the 2, 
or addition to the scene, is generally known for its ability to see both sides of an 
issue, is a peaceful and generous energy and seeks romance, domesticity, and is 
not forceful or domineering. As such, any conflicts that may arise will likely be 
short in duration, then overcome and settled by the gentle 2. It is a feminine 
energy, one that is soft and diplomatic and compliments the individualism of the 
number 1. A necessity of the 2 is the existence of another element, opinion, or 
person. Consider “2 halves of the whole,” “the better half,” or “2 peas in a pod”: 
the dual aspects inherent in the 2 form the basis for the “Cosmic Parents and the 
Family of Man” (20). This would indicate that most positive 2 energies have a 
high potential of becoming truly supportive and loving parents, friends, 
employees, and partners. 


Unfortunately, when unsure of its place, or emotionally threatened, the 2 
personality is also known to be overly sensitive, indecisive, insecure, possessive, 
moody, sulky, reproachful, and vengeful. There is a strong risk of passive 
aggressiveness here, which can be one of the most difficult duels to fight and 
win. However, if all is fairly mellow in the world of the 2, they will give all of 
themselves to friendships, family members, job, and home. The 2 is the 
peacemaker; it will do all in its power to calm troubled waters and makes a 
wonderful arbitrator or mediator because of its innate ability to see both sides of 
an issue. 

The 2 needs people and things around them. They need a comfort zone (which 
is composed of familiar objects and people) in order to function effectively. For 
this reason, you may well come across many 2s who are collectors ... of 
anything, from plastic stir sticks to people. It would not be uncommon to find a 2 
energy surrounded by several pets, running a day-care, or housing a few 
relatives. 

It must be added that while an obvious result of combining energies may result 
in conflict, it also results in intimacy. Number 2 needs closeness, sharing, 
honesty, and reassurance in its relationships but, most importantly, the 2 needs to 
be in a relationship that ultimately leads to physical intimacy. This number is 
very tactile and thirsts for the reassurance of hugs, kisses, and other displays of 
affection. This need can be so intense that oftentimes the 2 will settle just to have 
someone near. Too many 2s in a chart would indicate a foundational lack in 
formative relationships, for example, between parent and child. The 2 in 
question would then spend a majority of their time searching for that elusive 
love connection they were deprived of at the beginning of their lives here. As 
you can imagine, such a search in terms of an adult relationship may lead to a 
fair amount of heartbreak, as the search would be for the nurturing and care of a 
parent rather than the sharing and equality of a spouse. The 2 must ideally find a 
middle ground between the yearning for an absolute union and maintaining a 
sense of self. Generally speaking, though, the 2 is all about the love thing. 
Enough of the right stuff will help any seeking 2 to recognize and break cycles 
that belong in the past. In fact, the high compassion level present in several 2 
energies indicates a predisposition towards becoming effective counselors, 


therapists, or teachers. They are great listeners and very sensitive to the 
emotional states of others. 

Flashback to our Lone Man and Woman. It is a dark and stormy night. 
Lightning sparks, thunder rolls, and the skies open in a deluge. The woman is 
frightened and scurries into the shelter and safety of the man’s arms. Of course, a 
fire is crackling and throwing golden warmth and dancing shadows upon them as 
they stand together, gazing raptly into one another’s eyes. After they have 
discovered the thrill of a first kiss, a nap is suddenly in order and they lie down 
upon the warm, soft bearskin rug next to the fire. And while they may not 
actually think about it, they have just initiated the beginnings of a creative 
process of the Highest Order. The fertile, active, creative, and even magickal 
energy of the number 3 has begun to work its wonders. They will see this 
extraordinary event develop over the course of the next nine months. 

More on this miracle later. 

The Major Arcana tarot card attached to the number 2 is the High Priestess. I 
think of her as full of secrets and sacred and sometimes dangerous knowledge, 
which is implied in the heavy book she carries in her lap (the TORA is often 
thought to refer to the TAROT backwards, with the T hidden; TORA is also 
found on the Wheel of Fortune ... others, like myself, believe this to be the Book 
of Law). The High Priestess is the female equivalent of the Magician and holds 
much of the same mystery and magickal prowess and powers, but her strongest 
sense is that of her intuition. 

In human form, she represents someone who is just as open to the reality that 
surrounds her as she is to the inner world of the intuition and spirit. She is the 
two joined as one: she is the cover of the book and its contents and represents the 
connection between units of two, specifically that of Spirit and man. Notice also 
that the number 2 is visually highlighted on this card as she sits between two 
columns, of which one is white and the other black; again referring to the two 
different worlds of the High Priestess. However, she is neither black, nor white; 
her truth lies in the shade between the two. 

The Major Arcana tarot card of Justice (11) also reduces to the number 2 and 
refers to the two components of the law: innocence versus guilt. Other ways of 
saying this are “lies versus truth” or “good versus 


evil” or “right versus wrong.” Justice’s job is to | ta paressa |] THE HIGH priestess 
LA PAPESSE 


LA PAPISA 


discern the truth (notice again the two pillars 
Justice sits between) and to achieve some manner 
of balance, which is symbolically evident in the 
(2) plates that form the scale of balance shown on 
the card, and in the sword held in the opposite 
hand. The scales register only when something is 
added and that something is represented here by 
the sword, which is an air element and refers to 
the power of the spoken word. Therefore, words 
that are spoken play a significant role here and 
will determine the outcome when placed on the 
scales. It will come as no great surprise that 


Justice does indeed refer to the Justice system, 
which governs “legal versus illegal” acts. This is | P'EHOHEPRIESTERN DE HOGEPRIESTERES 
another way of saying “as above, so below.” 


Justice keeps things even and fair, down to the legal contract and the fine print, 
for what is printed may secret away a lie. 

The Major Arcana card of Judgement shows a value of 20, which also cores 
down to the number 2. As you can see, the Archangel Gabriel blows a horn over 
the figures who seem to be standing in their coffins and who do seem to be part 
of a graveyard. My own feeling about this card is that it offers a second chance 
—another life, an alternate route. Another take on this card is that it offers the 
opportunity to rise above the limits of our human bodies and egos. Either way, 
Judgment has two sides: for and against. As such, it ties in to the duality of the 2 
as well. 

As you can see, the energy of the 2 is of paramount importance in terms of the 
content and meanings for all of these cards: two sides, two verdicts, and two 
realities. 


Multi 2 Values 
As mentioned, the name that is heavy in 2 values often experiences difficulty in 
personal relationships. The desire or need to “join with another” in a significant 


way is strong and usually cores back to an | iwcusnza X| JUSTICE 
LA JUSTICE LA JUSTICIA 


unsatisfactory union with either parent (not 
necessarily both). As such, the adult 2 will be 


prone to seeking out the perfect mate and can 
spend far too much time and energy trying to 
please those it cares for or loves. This can and 


does include friends, family, lovers, homes, jobs 
—anything that is composed of opposite or 
separate entities. The peacemaking number 2 
seeks soft and kind emotions and personalities, 
which can, understandably, result in frequent 
disappointments. Predictably, these 
disappointments can also usher in periods of 
depression, caution, and a sense of insecurity. 


Should they become involved in obsessive or 
abusive situations or relationships, the number 2 
can withdraw from life and become vulnerable to addictive habits, unethical or 
illegal behavior, and emotional instability. 


A Chart with No 2 Values 

A personality with no 2 values in their read will tend to treat intimate 
relationships in a rather lighthearted manner, or so it may appear. They may 
avoid emotional entanglements or will not feel the necessity to meld themselves 
with another. This type of energy will generally not require the presence of 
someone else to make them feel complete or valid. In fact, a chart showing low 
or no 2 vibrations may not feel the need to connect with others at all. 


Traditional Descriptives 

Some traditional descriptives of the number 2 personality are as follows: tactful, 
friendly, helpful, diplomatic, loyal, trustworthy, gentle, romantic, 
compassionate, nurturing, domestic, and shy. A negative 2 can be emotionally 
manipulative, moody, insecure, timid, mentally unbalanced, and passive- 
aggressive. 


Words That Total to Number 2 


LE JUGEMENT 


The following words total to the number 2 and | icwozo YX —_uaGeMENT 
EL JUICIO 


reflect both the nature of the 2 and the two-sided 
nature of this number essence: tactful, friendly, 
parental, spiritual, helpful, sharing, loyalty, 
balance, duality, door, window, bed, and 
telephone. 


Lifepath for the Number 2 

The number 2 is all about sharing, caring, and 
compromising. They will need a mate or someone 
to care for—relationships are the core essence of 
the 2. Work should involve one-on-one situations 
where social connections will be many. A natural 
negotiator, the 2 is calm in the face of conflict and 
will go out of its way to restore or maintain the 


ET OORDEEL 
peace. Kind and loyal, the 2 will thrive when 


surrounded by family and friends. They do need to learn compromise, though— 
not everyone is as complacent or as gentle as they are. 


Challenge for the Number 2 

The challenge for the 2s is to retain individuality even while within a loving 
group and to differentiate between themselves and others. In its search for love, 
they must come to understand that the source of love is at once cosmic and 
inner; it cannot be supplied by another person. The 2 needs to focus upon their 
own fulfillment and less on the fulfillment of others. This is not selfish; it is 
being true to the self. The challenge for the number 2 is to learn not to 
compromise themselves for love. The typical 2 also needs to learn to stand up 
for themselves and to speak their mind in an effective and clear manner. 


Quirky Phrase to Remember the 2 By 


2 Big Red Kisses 


This should help you remember that the number 2 represents B, R, and K. 


Number Three (3): Creativity and Magick 

If you can picture our Lone Man and his woman a few months down the road 
and can see the lady as pregnant, you will have a good idea of the energy that 
surrounds the number 3. This number rules creativity, fertility, activity, thought, 
and a certain element of magick and luck. It speaks to the combined energies of 
two elements that produce a third and rather special one, in this case, a baby. I 
view this number essence as primarily feminine as well, although other sources 
see it as male. I suppose the most appropriate comment would be that it is a 
blend of the two. 

There has been an incredible jump in physical and mental activity for these 
parents. The addition of a child has created a family (the triangle, trinity, or “3rd 
dimension” of the “mother, father, and child”) and the parents are run off their 
feet. They are 100 percent focused on the birth of their baby and its needs, which 
are many. They often wonder about this magickal miracle, the perfection of this 
tiny entity and its creators, these 2 who are now 3. The point here is that the 
adults are solely focused on the needs, wants, and outright demands of the baby. 
When they are not busy physically caring for the needs of the child—which 
include feeding, changing, protecting, educating, encouraging, entertaining— 
they are thinking of the child and its future. Constant activity in thought and in 
body—that is the primary energy of the 3. That and its connection to magickal 
fortunes (creation of the child) and never-ending entertainment. 

We shall now leave the frenetic abode of the Lone Man’s family and translate 
the 3 energy into a person of modern times. As its main associations of 
creativity, fertility, activity, and luck might suggest, the 3 is always in motion. 
Both ancient and modern investigators consider the number 3 as the energy that 
creates all things as it overcomes the 2 of duality with the introduction of another 
aspect, such as the birth of a child. It is the trinity of body/mind/spirit, 
birth/life/death, thought/action/result, past/present/future, and 
beginning/middle/end. It holds the entire spectrum within its structure and 
energy; thus, the brain is always active, as is the body if not more so—it is 
poised for “ready, set, go.” 

This energy is always occupied with something—be it at work or at play. 
Common among 3s is physically doing one thing, while the brain or mind is on a 


completely different playing field, like being out shopping for shoes while 
wondering what color to paint the living room and whether or not to go to the 
office party next week. Typical 3s have short attention spans, which is why you 
won’t find many of them engrossed in reading War and Peace. They prefer not 
to focus on one thing for too long; there are just too many other things to think 
about and do. Number 3 energies are very creative and are great communicators 
and, as such, make fantastic entertainers, comedians, artists, singers, or authors. 
Threes are touched by magick, as in the vision afforded by an open “3rd eye” 
(the mystical awakening thought held in the pineal gland, which is a tiny gland 
found in the center of the brain and behind the eyes). “Third time’s the charm,” 
“Father, Son, and Holy Ghost,” “3 strikes, you’re out!” (being given 3 chances), 
“3 wishes,” and the 3-D world we live in. Or you can click your heels 3 times to 
go home. 

So the 3 character would seem to refer to someone in possession of plenty of 
luck, dumb or otherwise. Threes tend to rise to the top of their profession 
because of their constant brain activity, level of creativity, energy, curiosity, and 
originality. To be honest, though, I never stop wondering what all these 3s are so 
industriously running from or to. Yes, part of the energy is natural and integral, 
but, unfortunately, there is usually a motivational factor in the level of energy 
expelled and such motivation generally sources back to childhood and holds a 
negative vibe, hence the drive to keep going, keep moving, never stop—for if the 
3s stop, they will have to face not only themselves, but that from which they run 
so dogmatically. With the luck factor of the 3 rising through the roof, chances 
are good that no matter what the past might reveal, the 3 will make it through— 
maybe because of its challenge, which is to “rebirth,” or to gather and assimilate 
all aspects of the self (body, mind, and spirit) into one balanced energy. 

It is no great surprise that an older, unenlightened 3 is prone to running out of 
steam or, worse, hitting the wall. Translated, this speaks to the need to slow 
down as age encroaches, for the human body is not made to operate at high 
speeds for extended periods of time. The parts will naturally wear down or out 
and health problems will force the animated number 3 to take a time out ... and 
it could be a long one. 

Romantically, the partner of a 3 would need to 


be very independent and secure, as the constant | vimeerarice THE EMPRESS 

ae 7 f L'IMPERATRICE | | | LA EMPERATRIZ 
activity of their partner would leave them to their ci 
own devises more often than not. The 3 might do ' 
well with a more grounded energy, like the 4, who 4 
will offer a stable home environment and the sense i 
of steadiness an overactive 3 might just need and 
appreciate. Of course, that would mean that the 4 


in question would need to relax some of their own 


Wt 


natural impulses for order and routine, but, then 
again, doesn’t love conquer all? 

The energy of the 3 is evident once more when 
we look at the Major Arcana tarot card of the 
Empress: she is fertility at its finest. Sometimes 
referred to as Mother Earth, she is often portrayed =e 
as pregnant (and nearby sits the symbol for | D®Hstschew 
femininity), which can point to an actual birth of a 
child, relationship, or project. Anything that is fertile and growing is her domain. 
Most depictions of the Empress show her surrounded by budding or blooming 
flowers, healthy trees, and flowing waters that are necessary to growth (and also 
represent emotions). She is the mother—and we all know how typically busy 
mothers are and the awe and respect with which they are usually perceived by 
their children. The Empress personifies feminine power, creativity, and magickal 
abilities (bringing forth a child). As such, she is to be regarded with the utmost 
respect and treated with care ... like our own Mother Earth should be. 

The Major Arcana tarot card of the Hanged Man (number 12) also reduces to 3 
and represents taking action to cease action, which is accomplished by 
voluntarily hanging upside down from a tree or post—all the better to see 
situations from different angles and to take a time-out in order to contemplate 
and regroup. This card points to stopping the ever-active 3 energy; putting a hold 
on it or suspending it long enough to see things from a different perspective. 
Worthy of note is the number 12, which signifies a completion of some kind. 
This figure has reached the end of one stage and is pausing before continuing on. 
So this card’s message is perhaps a bit odd in that 


Ave 


M 


i 


it endeavors to reverse and stop activity and to 
impose rest—a deed that is done using rather 
unorthodox methods. The “halo” that surrounds 
our figure’s head indicates new understanding and 
spiritual awakening. 

The Major Arcana tarot card of the World (21) 
brings to mind the old saying that the world is 
your oyster, and this is indeed its meaning. There 
is a sense of balance in this card, which is 
reflected in the two wands the lady holds and the 
two lemniscates (symbols of infinity), which can 
be seen at the upper and lower ends of the laurel 
wreath surrounding her. This is the reward at the 
end of a long road: it offers success, travel (an 
excellent example of activity), and a perfect oyster 
that opens (like magick) to reveal your own 
perfect pearl. 

This is the last Major Arcana card, and it 
encompasses all previous activity and thought and 
identifies the conclusion to at least one chapter of 
the life, which is generally seen as rewarding. It is 
interesting to note that the human body has 
generally ceased its development by the age of 21 
and that legal recognition is afforded in many 
countries when one reaches the age of 21. This 
points to levels of completions and feelings of 
wholeness and acceptance—a new base from 
which further action springs. 

So here we have 3 very different cards that all 
support and demonstrate the power of the number 
3 in very different ways, which are all tied 
together in the end. 


THE HANGED MAN 
EL COLGADO 


EPeRou A 


IL MONDO 
LE MONDE 


THE WORLD 
EL MUNDO 


XXI 


Rea 


DE WERELD 


DIE WELT 


Multi 3 Values 

Too many 3 values in a name points to overactivity. Quite simply, the overly 
charged 3 energy can produce far too many interests, hobbies, directions, or 
connections. In other words, the multi 3 can be found moving from project to 
project, job to job, home to home, city to city, person to person—this is a search 
without definite destination or reward. The attention span of the 3 is limited and 
this can lead to infidelity, unreliability, and general chaos. On the flip side, the 
loaded 3 can also live an enviable lifestyle that can include considerable travel, 
excitement, and freedom—which is great, as long as it is what is truly desired. 
However, care must be taken to avoid misrepresentation of the self to others who 
may see things differently. For example, a 2 who is longing to settle down with a 
3 may have a long wait, and the 3 should make their intentions clear in order to 
avoid misunderstandings and hurt feelings. This holds true for any connections 
in a heavily ruled 3 life ... consideration of others is of major import. 


A Chart with No 3 Values 

Someone with no 3 values in their read will have a balanced lifestyle: physical 
activity is usually normal as is the level of thought patterns. They could, 
however, perhaps use a bit of good, old-fashioned luck (hang a horseshoe!), and 
may wish to incorporate a form of exercise in their routine. 


Traditional Descriptives 

Typical descriptions of the 3 include energetic, positive, creative/artistic, 
visionary, hypnotic, attractive, humorous, entertaining, flirtatious, charming, and 
sensual. When the 3 turns negative, it can be unreliable, vain, arrogant, wasteful, 
bored, evasive, illusive, and frustrating to deal with on any level. 


Words that Total to Number 3 

Some words that hold the energy of the 3 and/or stimulate the body, brain, or 
spirit are three, empress, love, magic, energy, comedian, entertainer, nurse, 
administrator, philosophy, activity, and hurricane. 


Lifepath for the Number 3 
The 3 is always up to something—they love adventures and new projects and 
would do well in positions that offer variety and spontaneity. Very social, 


charming, and entertaining, the number 3 Lifepath indicates creative self- 
expression (in whichever form it may come to the individual) as a natural gift 
that should be pursued. The road of the 3 can be an exciting one that includes 
routine travel, changes, and new experiences, and should ideally include a like- 
minded mate. 


Challenge for the Number 3 

The challenge for the 3 is to stop; to be still long enough to allow all aspects of 
the body, mind, and soul to unify. The 3 must learn to feel comfortable in their 
own skin. Doing nothing and allowing the mind to travel where it will (which is 
a form of meditation) is one of its challenges, while another is to honor their 
artistic and creative talents (or gifts). Attached to this last one is to learn to focus 
on one thing (the favorite pastime or hobby) and pursue it to the exclusion of all 
else. There is magick in doing so, and rebirth and spiritual satisfaction. 


Quirky Phrase to Remember the 3 By 


3 Grey Cats Lick Sauce 


This should help you remember that the number 3 represents G, C, L, and S. 


Number Four (4): Solid Foundations 

Back at the Lone Man camp, there now exists a family. And the one thing most 
families like is a house: a safe, solid, and secure place to call home. Our Lone 
Man is no different. He has been chopping, molding, and clearing space so that 
he may plot the 4 corners of his structure and lay down firm and stable 
foundations upon which to build a house. Therein lay the base elements of the 
foundational 4: form, dependability, routine, safety, laws, proper procedure, 
stability, and durability. 

The conventional number 4 of today is representative of the hard worker: 
someone who is practical, logical, productive, and protective. The pure 4 is 
grounded—it is firm and solid. Think of the 4 winds, the 4 seasons, the 4 
directions, the 4 wheels on a car, the 4 legs of a chair, the 4 corners of a house, 


or even the traditional 4 members of a family. This | vimecrarore IV THE EMPEROR 
EL EMPERADOR 


L'EMPEREUR 
energy, which I think of as male, is down-to-earth, 


responsible, logical, cyclical, repetitive, and 
practical, and usually represents a family-oriented, 
loyal, and patriotic person. An unfortunate side 
effect of this routine steadiness is boredom due to 
the simple repetitiveness of a persistent cycle, 
which is bound to become mundane at some point. 
The 4 needs to guard against becoming 
excessively bored and against procrastinating, for 
this can cause the more argumentative, 
opinionated, humorless, stubborn, and downright 


mean side of the 4 to emerge because of sheer | ==} 4 a 
frustration. CEASA RRN 


=e; pa dse > 


But overall, the 4 is one of the more favorable | DER HERRSCHER DE KEIZER 


number energies, if one likes responsibility, 

honesty, reliability, and dependability. Other qualities that are particular to the 4 
personality are meticulousness, perfectionism, and a seemingly natural dislike of 
some type concerning authority figures or anyone in a supervisory role. This is 
because of the 4’s inherent ability and desire to take control and shoulder 
responsibility; they do not need another to do it for them or to show them how it 
is done. Accordingly, although 4s generally make excellent employees, they are 
more suited to self-employment. Some 4s can also have a case of having-to- 
have-the-last-word syndrome, a by-product of their built-in tendency to 
dominate (4 is connected to the 8, which is a controlling number). The 4 also has 
the strange ability to switch views or take opposing standpoints, similar to a 
debate with the same person arguing for both sides. And doing so convincingly, 
as well. 

As mentioned, the 4 is one of the more consistent energies in the number scale 
simply because of the fact that it is dependable, loyal, genuine, and faithful. 
However, the 4 can also come in another, perhaps less desirable form—their 
lesson may involve learning how to be dependable and personally responsible. 
The difference between the two shouldn’t be too hard to spot. 


The Major Arcana tarot card of the Emperor (4) is the ultimate Father Figure 
and provides and personifies rules, authority, law, routine, reliability, and solid 
advice. In other words, he is a foundational, wise, and grounding energy and is 
not one to be challenged; this man has seen the world and knows its truths. The 
confident, assured, and relaxed attitude of the bearded man who sits upon his 
throne as though it were an extension of himself speaks to his experiences just as 
his armor speaks to his past history of fighting the good fight. The image of the 
Ram that often accompanies him is yet another verification of the strength, 
determination, and leadership the Emperor embodies and serves to confirm the 
energies of the 4 he is ruled by. This man is law and experience combined; he 
knows that the answers to all questions rest upon truth. 

Another Major Arcana tarot card which carries the 4 energies is Death 
(number 13): however, this grounded and foundational energy manifests in a 
slightly different way— it offers fundamental and often permanent changes to 
the elemental parameters of life itself. Its core meaning is of something that has 
been a key part of life coming to an end or changing in a significant way. The 
Death card rarely means actual physical death: it refers to basic issues and the 
shifts that take place within those basic structures. Thus, although its tone is 
disparate, Death grows from the same roots as the Emperor, and both figures are 
equally respected and perhaps even slightly feared because of the ultimate 
authority they both symbolize. However, upon taking a closer look at Death, the 
pure white horse he rides is actually a comment on clear and clean energy. 
Further, the Sun is on the rise in the distant sky. So this is not an ending as we 
think of it, rather, it is a beginning of something else; something that we may not 
be familiar with but which holds the promise of a new day, one that comes after 
experiencing a few dark nights. 

I do want to add here that the tarot deck is composed of 22 Major Arcana 
cards (a Master Number that refers to building something of note, which also 
totals down to 4— the core issues and events that form life itself) and is 
composed of the suits of Pentacles, Wands, Cups, and Swords.These suits 
translate into the 4 prime elements of existence: our physical bodies, money, and 
career (Pentacles); our spirit, ability to create, passion, and intensity (Wands); 
our emotions, their consequences and rewards (Cups); and our thoughts and 


words, what we do with them and how they can affect those around us (Swords). 

The sturdy and grounded number 4 is the very foundation upon which this 
entire spiritual divination system rests—a strong commentary on the 
fundamental essences of this vibration. 


Multi 4 Values avoe X] m 


LA MUERTE 


. ‘ 3 ORT 
Anyone with a preponderance of 4 values in their as 


name analysis will likely have issues with family 
members. This can manifest as wanting to be 
responsible and dependable but finding this a 
somewhat difficult desire to realize (especially if 
the sub number is 13). The 4 is stable and 
functional, so a person who is heavy in this energy 
is going to swing one way or the other. They will 
take the responsibility and pragmatism of this 
grounded vibration too far in daily life, the results 
of which can be excessive meticulousness, 
unbending rules, and even such a potent level of 
“a place for everything and everything in its 


place” that frustrations can lead to abusive 
behaviors. The fanatical 4 can be infuriatingly 
stubborn and immovable—“set in their ways” comes to mind. This can make the 
multi 4 a good business partner, boss, and employee—as long as they do not 
become so caught up in details that they miss the bigger picture. 

As a domestic partner, the 4 can wind up treating the mate in a business-like 
rather than romantic fashion, which can lead to all kinds of problems. 

As just briefly mentioned, the multi 4 can also show an alarming lack of 
awareness as far as the basics of life are concerned. Everything I just said about 
the 4 can be reversed, and this type of 4 will find it hard to commit, to stick to 
one career or relationship or place, and can find themselves constantly moving 
on in order to avoid laying down foundations or getting stuck in one place, with 
one person, or at one job. Ultimately, this type of 4 will have to learn to depend 
on themselves rather than others (in such a case, some form of the 4 will usually 


show up as part of the Lifepath). 
A Chart with No 4 Values 


A personality with no 4 values featured in their read will not find personal 
accountability or duty to be an issue; they will have a naturally developed sense 
of duty and a balanced understanding of the responsibilities of life. Sometimes, 
no 4 values can be indicative of needing to take personal responsibility for the 
mundane responsibilities and details of daily life. 


Traditional Meanings 

A traditional 4 energy can be seen as reliable, hard-working, loyal, patriotic, 
family-oriented, honest, meticulous, 

and methodical. A negative 4 personality can be arrogant, opinionated, 
irresponsible, defensive, evasive, argumentative, uninspired, rebellious, and even 
controlling, cruel, and abusive. 


Words that Total to Number 4 

A few words that illustrate the energy of the 4 are tied to recognized 
fundamentals and include fundamentals, element, basics, regular, domestic, 
authority, reliable, control, sex, bible, and thunder. (An interesting one is 
graphology, which is the study of handwriting. This practice reveals the identity 
or the “state of mind” of a person much like the fingerprint does, although its 
uses are a bit more psychological.) 


Lifepath for the Number 4 

This path is one of work and taking responsibility for the contents of life. This 
number essence points to reliability, accountability, strength, determination, and 
the satisfaction of earning one’s way. Charity is not something the developed 4 
will feel comfortable accepting. Often seen as organized and methodical, the 
number 4 is the number that seeks security and routine and takes great personal 
pleasure in being able to provide for themselves and their family. 

However, this number also can point to someone whose path involves learning 
to take personal responsibility for their life rather than seeking security from 
outside of themselves. This kind of 4 may have a difficult financial life until this 
lesson is learned and incorporated into the psyche, which usually does happen, 


albeit sometimes later in life. 


Challenge for the Number 4 

The challenge for the number 4 is to blend responsibility with fun. This energy 
needs to either loosen up and enjoy life a little bit more, or they need to learn 
how to take and accept responsibility for themselves in foundational ways. The 
number 4 is challenged to work (often with their hands) at a job they truly love, 
but that presents many challenges in and of itself. The key is to lay down the 
plan and to follow through despite any and all detours or potholes. 


Quirky Phrase to Remember the 4 By 


4 Drunk Men Talking 


This should help you remember that the number 4 represents the letter D, M, and 
E. 


Number Five (5): Changes and 
Freedom 
The years have passed and our Lone Man family 


C y l z 


is doing quite well, all things considered. The key 


element that illustrates the influence of the number 


"= 


5 revolves around their child, who is now a 
teenager. Since teens come in both sexes and the zi 
following can be experienced by both, I tend to 


E 


assign both masculine and feminine energies to its 
vibrations. 


Gs 
É 


IDE 


What the average teen experiences involves a 
waking up of sorts; we become aware of our 
senses and of our physical body (think of the five 
points of the starred pentagram as an overlay for 
the figure of man). We also seek the thrill of 
experimentation, of new faces and places and our right to express (and indulge) 


ourselves in whichever manner we see fit. This energy phase introduces the 
realization that we are beings separate from our parents, and as such, we are 
independent and free to do as we please. Or so we think. And so the Lone Man’s 
teenager thinks. So if you can imagine the possible antics of this particular 
teenager, you may have a good idea of the vibrations that surround this 
enigmatic and sometimes baffling number. 

The number 5 is all about freedom and changes and individualism and the 
senses. Even within an established family unit, these urges and titillations can 
and do affect everyone, especially after a time of stability and routine. Five often 
kicks in to counteract boredom, which is one of the things the number 4 needs to 
look out for as well. 

Time to translate the 5 into someone you might know. The 5 energies root to 
the yearning for something more—for change and adventure and freedom. There 
exists a deep restlessness and a corresponding desire for stimulation, particularly 
of the senses. As a person, this energy can translate into someone who is 
fascinating, but very illusive and transitory. 

The 5 is the administrator; the one calling the shots and the one who will do as 
he or she pleases. This energy is also the communicator. They love to vocalize, 
write, draw, paint, or sculpt—anything which sends messages along artistic 
avenues. 

Because of its many meanings, one might think that this number vibration 
holds potential chaos within its structure—and it does. Thankfully, a further 
characteristic of the 5 is that it carries a natural balance point (it sits in the 
middle of the regular number scale of 1 to 10). It is the middle of the road, the 
half empty or full, the naturally positioned set of scales that speak to the normal 
and natural state of neutral. What effect does this have on the strength of the 
need for experimentation? Communication? Freedom? Oddly enough, the high 
frequency charge of the unadulterated 5 is balanced out by its middle-of-the- 
scale placement, so despite changes galore, the 5 always seems to stay on an 
even keel, even when the boat is tipping. Change is, after all, a natural part of 
life and is to be anticipated, expected, and absorbed or adjusted to, and 
thankfully, the 5 is the best at doing so. 

A true 5 personality will be very difficult to get a handle on. They represent all 


of the things I mentioned above. They are true independents, authoritarians, 
freedom and, sometimes, excitement junkies. At its highest vibration—as found 
in a chart with many 5s—the need for thrills, challenges, and stimulation of the 
senses, and yes, I do mean all of the senses, is keen. The number 5 needs 
constant diversity and change or they will stagnate and sink into negative 
attitudes, withdraw into themselves, and entertain destructive habits or 
behaviors. 

Although the 5 is also quite the charmer and can put on a mask of reliability 
for a time, it would be unwise to entirely depend on a 5, as they tend to live in 
the moment and are easily moved and swayed should something take their 
attention and hold it. The 5 is under the influence of freedom: they do not 
respond well to being tied down, controlled, contained, or stuck in a routine of 
any kind. If they are in such a situation, the 5 will adjust, but the truth about 
what they are thinking or planning will be deeply hidden, and change will come 
once more, sometimes, of others. unexpectedly for others involved. As 
mentioned, they are, at all times, the authoritarian: the boss of themselves and, 
sometimes inadvertently, others. This makes the 5 a potentially challenging 
choice in a mate or even in an employee. Although they are thoroughly likable 
and engaging energies, they still will ultimately do things their own way, which 
in turn tends to leave people, places, and things behind, often without warning. 

These brave adventurers are the ones you will find in unusual careers, 
traveling to unusual spots, jumping from airplanes, driving race cars, climbing 
mountains, and experiencing life to the fullest while sometimes even 
(consciously or unconsciously) cheating death. Depending on placement and 
other details, this can also involve courting the fates in less-than-positive ways 
such as experimentation with alcohol, sex, and drugs, as the 5 is also ruled by the 
senses. People with a plethora of 5 values are often mentally high strung and 
hard to “put a finger on.” Because of a connection with Mercury, they can 
display quicksilver moves and moods. Since they prefer to be in charge of 
themselves, the 5 is constantly seeking new opportunities and challenges and can 
switch from one situation or person to another in a heartbeat. The 5 is the most 
potent of sexual attraction vibrations and can, if they so choose, attract the 
opposite (or the same) sex as easily and naturally as the proverbial flame attracts 


the moth. 

The unfettered 5 who is free to do and be as he or she sees fit is the sparkle in 
the champagne, the flash in the pan (meaning the gold found therein), and the 
wings on the bird. Take away their champagne, stomp on their pan, or clip their 
wings and you will have a restless, edgy, and frustrated energy on your hands. 
The best advice I can give for handling the 5 is to give them free reign. Hanging 
on to a 5 is like trying to hang on to a fish: it just wiggles out of your hands, 
jumps back into the ocean, and off it goes, likely never to be seen (or caught) 
again! 

One possibility that may subconsciously lure the 5 (or be a predestined course) 
is to become well known and respected, whether within their own community 
via owning successful businesses or holding high-ranking positions, or, indeed, 
throughout the world for any of a million reasons. It is the only number to hold 
such a possibility, to attract media attention as a result of specific actions or 
talents. This attention can easily result in fame and even infamy; it depends on 
the reason for the attention in the first place. Granted, this is a rare possibility, 
but fame does occur and the more 5s in the chart, the higher the potential. Many 
celebrities of today and yesteryear carry prominent 5s in their analysis charts 
(Oprah, Jay Leno, Angelina Jolie, Nicole Kidman, Katharine Hepburn, and 
Charlton Heston, to name but a few). In the case of multi 5s, to expect a 
domestic, normal type of life may not be even remotely realistic until the 5 is 
well into and perhaps beyond middle age. There is a chance that, with age, the 5 
will mellow, but that would likely only be presented in the type of challenge or 
excitement they engage in. Quite frankly, most 5s like their lives exactly as they 
are, thank you very much. 

I find both of the Major Arcana tarot cards that contain the 5 energy to be very 
interesting in that both serve to provide balance: one of them, the Hierophant (5), 
is usually regarded as a powerful and sometimes religious figure who exerts 
tremendous influence over a large group of people. He can be read as the saving 
grace: the one who provides proper law and tradition in order to maintain and 
sustain control over the various characters and personalities under his domain. 
As mentioned, one of the redeeming factors of this number energy is its natural 
balance point, or the ability to maintain order through chaos, and the Hierophant 


acts as the speaker of the house—he leads the masses and lays down divine order 
to counterbalance chaos. 

The second Major Arcana tarot card that totals to 5 is Temperance (14), which 
refers to the need for balance as well, but while the Hierophant is for the masses, 
Temperance holds a more intimate and personal message: it is aimed at the 
individual and usually points to the need to restore balance in one’s own life. It 
references moderation (especially after sensory overload), healing, and taking 
time out to connect with Spirit. This can be seen as an indication of a spiritual 
awakening that will result in a smoother progression and attitude in general. This 
card is very philosophical and its message is gentle yet firm: it says regroup and 
rethink one’s actions and habits before all balance is lost. 

Both Temperance and the Hierophant offer calm 


LA TEMPERANZA TEMPERANCE 
XIV LA TEMPLANZA 


in the face of potential chaos and firmly support | tA ‘merrance 
the meanings of the number 5, just from different 
angles. 

On a personal note, I have noticed in my 
numerical travels that some combinations of 
numbers share certain qualities, and, 
consequently, those qualities become magnified. 
The numbers 5 and 3 are two such numbers. If you 
should run across someone with these energies as 
totals for their names, or in a variety of placements 


in a chart, you will likely find that you will rarely 


see these people and when you do, it will only be 


yi; ae Wa 
for a short time and will come with no assurances PH j W 
US pi 


of a next occurrence. The combined energy of the 
DIE MÄSSIGKEIT al 


ever-active and somewhat carefree 3 with the 
thrill-seeking and independent 5 can make for unreliable bedfellows (for 
instance, the domestic-loving 6 might not find a 5/3 a good match). However, if 
you are looking for someone to share your free climb up a mountain or to race 
bulls with you in Spain, the 5/3 would make an excellent choice in companions. 
Just make sure you have everything you need (and I do mean everything) to 
survive by yourself if need be. Through no fault of their own, the 5/3 is not one 


of the most dependable energies known to man. Exciting, yes. Boring, no. 
Committed ... well, maybe to making it to the airport on time. 


Multi 5 Values 
Excessive 5 values will produce a confusing energy for anyone who cannot 
relate to an intense desire for freedom, and this freedom will be reflected in all 
areas of life. Multi 5s are notorious for changing jobs or careers, relationships 
(and sexual partners), locations, and interests. These are indeed free spirits who 
all but loathe normal, routine, and predictable situations and circumstances. 
Since the 5 is also ruled by the senses and anything that can alter reality, the risk 
of becoming involved in the use of drugs or alcohol or any number of alternative 
sensory-overload methods is accentuated. The main pull for this vibration is to 
attain freedom in any way possible. 

Obviously, the high-volume 5 is not the best bet for a romantic partner; for if 
you are looking for a solid and reliable presence, the 5 can be there in body but 
be miles away in spirit. Perhaps a better choice would be the 4. 


A Chart with No 5 Values 

A personality without 5 values in their read may find their life and its 
components rather restricting and even boring. Few changes and little 
stimulation can create an underlying dissatisfaction with the quality of life. On 
the other hand, no 5 values can be seen as a relatively calm and peaceful 
existence, but one that lacks in adventure and sensory expression: it really 
depends on the person involved. To someone who prefers tranquility, no 5 
vibrations will be seen as a blessing indeed. 


Traditional Meanings 

An average 5 can be described as charming, sensual, adaptable, social, 
entertaining, compassionate, curious, very artistic, adventurous, thrill-seeking, 
ever-changing, enticing, fascinating, sexy, and dramatic. They can also be 
negatively described as irresponsible, unreliable, inconsiderate, flighty, deceitful, 
disloyal, unfaithful, self-centered, restless, addictive, noncommittal, and 
frustrated. 


Words that Total to Number 5 


A few words that conceptualize and total to the 5 energy and point to the body, 
its abilities, and ultimate freedom are birth, heal, health, body, evolve, 
excitement, crazy, sexy, entice, end, finish, coffin, priest, and God. 


Lifepath for the Number 5 

This Lifepath is one of “expect the unexpected.” The number 5 energy thrives on 
freedom above all else and therefore the life can reflect constant change— 
people, places, and things come in and out of the life on a consistent basis. Since 
it is also, thankfully, one of the most adaptable numbers in the scale, it is able to 
move from one situation to another with relative ease (although it dislikes closed 
or controlled environments). The 5 personality is usually quite attractive to 
others because of its ever-changing circumstances, connections, charm, and 
communication skills. The 5 is best suited to self-employment and its talents lie 
in the area of creativity and any form of artistic communication. However, 
because of its non-conformist tendencies, this vibration can also experience 
periodic financial ups and downs, but these will even out once the talent is found 
and the time dedicated to perfecting it. 


Challenge for the Number 5 

The challenge for the number 5 is to honor their free spirit while avoiding the 
temptations of stimulants such as alcohol and drugs, or anything that feeds the 
senses. The focus of the 5 is on themselves and, as a result, they may need to 
learn to consider the emotional scars left on those who are inadvertently left 
behind because of their transitory nature. Their challenge also involves setting 
down roots and learning to commit, whether that involves a relationship or a 
goal. The 5 can succeed beyond its expectations if it focuses on one thing and 
Sticks to it. 


Quirky Phrase to Remember the 5 By 

5 Nurses X-ray Harry’s Eye 

This should help you remember that the number 5 represents the letters N, X, H, 
and E. 


Number Six (6): Domestic Love 
Let’s surmise that the teenager belonging to our 


Lone Man and Woman has spent a few months | cu amann VI THE LOVERS 
LES AMANTS LOS 


NAMORADOS 


disappearing from the house in the dead of night, 
hanging out with less-than-desirable friends, 
partying until the sun comes up, arguing with 
everyone about everything, wearing strange 
clothes, and sporting green hair. Let’s say that this 
teenager has also fallen in love and has found this 
love to be unrequited. 

What do you think this poor, heartbroken young 
person will do? Where will this person want to be? 
Anyone who is in pain will want to return to the 
place and to the people who make them feel cared 
for and loved—they will want to go home. 

And that is what the 6 is all about—returning to 
the fold, flying back to the nest, seeking a port in 


the storm—it is the vibration of warmth and 
security, and above all, safety. 

The most attractive element for our lovesick and overly stimulated teen is the 
comfort that is offered by the familiar arms of family, especially the mother, 
which is why I feel this number as more feminine than male. This vibration is 
usually only fully appreciated after various outside adventures have prompted 
retreat. Here is where our teen knows that acceptance is not an issue nor is trust, 
or rather, the lack of it. The 6 accommodates and encourages the different 
desires, daring, personalities, and dreams of its family members while also 
providing a consistently calm place to ground and center after losses, failures, or 
traumas. 

The 6 energy has everything to do with love, as it is ruled by Venus and is 
representative of the Nurturer, or the Parent who is often regarded as a solid and 
dependable pillar of the community. Here is the energy of caring, of domesticity, 
and of gentleness. This is the true domain of the 6: it is the protected harbor into 
which one may retreat, it is the safe place to hide. In the dedicated 6, one will 
find the homemaker, protector, nurturer, and peace-keeper, whose main interest 
is in providing a secure and balanced home, one that is based in love. 


This love can and does extend to things of beauty. The 6 truly appreciates the 
brush strokes in a painting, the hours of talent poured into a sculpture, the 
elegant lines of a home or a car, and an almost natural by-product of this 
appreciation of beauty promotes a sense of pride in their own appearance. The 6 
will always try to look their best. 

A person with several 6 values in their chart is usually quite loving and 
lovable, sensitive, kind, humanitarian, and compassionate and requires a calm 
and serene atmosphere, although these intense leanings can easily cross the line 
into interference and over-involvement. The 6 is also artistic, musically inclined, 
and rather conventional, and is the responsible provider or caretaker. If this 
multi-layered harmony is endangered by lies, betrayal, or deceit, the 6 can turn 
on a dime and become withdrawn, self-righteous, and seriously passive- 
aggressive. Worst-case scenarios present clingy, insecure, accusatory, self- 
pitying whiners who, at peak performance, can make you want to toss your 
tacos. In such an event, it may well be advisable to re-establish harmony as soon 
as possible—genuinely, of course. In general, this should be fairly easy, as the 6 
is a truly gentle person who dislikes discord and only reacts negatively when 
they feel used, neglected, or threatened. (Similar to the 2, which is a component 
of the 6.) 

The Major Arcana tarot card of the Lovers (6) speaks for itself. Its number 
pertains to love, sex, trust, family, and happy homes. However, there is another 
level to this card and it is one of choice: do we go home to safety, or do we take 
the hand of the adventurer? This particular image illustrates how strongly body 
language can speak—the woman, who stands beside the Tree of Life (complete 
with a serpent, which she is almost touching—symbolism easily recognizable as 
temptation), reaches out her hand to the man, but he is not receptive; his eyes are 
downcast, one hand pulled back behind his thigh while the other splays open as 
if to say, “wait, I am not quite sure about this.” While they are both naked, they 
are not touching or joining, nor do they look as though they might. However, we 
do not know; the decision has not yet been made. So while this card refers to 
intimate actions and even fruitful procreations, it can also point to illicit affairs 
and emotionally damaging or destructive relationships, intimate or otherwise 
(although the choice will often have an element of love of some kind within its 


structure). The choice belongs to the participants and it boils down to stay in the 
safe zone, or take the hand offered. 


IL DIAVOLO THE DEVIL 
LE DIABLE XV EL DIABLO 


On the other hand, we have the Major Arcana 
tarot card of the Devil (15). He is the actuality, the 
materialization of the temptation I mentioned 
earlier, and portrays the negative side of the 6, 
which is found not in an actual devil, but rather 
within the human body, mind, and soul. This is the 
card of negative desires or forces (1), which 
manifest as thoughts, habits, decisions, and 
actions, like succumbing to the lure of drugs, 
alcohol, extramarital affairs, and of all kinds of 
other sensory-based stimulants (5), and the 
changes that follow, which can include everything à 
from broken trust to the devastation of | Serom A DEDINA 


relationships, homes, marriages, and lives. This 
15/6 speaks to the potential loss of domestic security, tranquility, and safety. The 
thing about this card and its message is that it also concerns choice—have a look 
at the chains around the necks of these two figures. In other illustrations, these 
chains are pictured as easily removable (this deck portrays the couple as more 
bound than others, but their chains are still relatively loose), which suggests that 
with a little bit of work, one or both could escape if they truly wanted to. The 
Devil does not keep them bound: they themselves do. Two alternatives are on 
offer here: remain confined and chained and face the consequences, or break the 
habit (chain) using whichever means necessary to return to a place of safety and 
security. Since the 6 often concerns relationships and love, chances are good that 
any damage done will ultimately core down to something that is loved (a drug, a 
job, or even a hobby—almost anything can fall under this heading) versus 
someone who is loved (a mistress, wife, sibling, or anyone else). Therein lies the 
challenge and the choice. 

So while the 6 is a loving and nourishing essence, it also carries, like all other 


number essences, a dark side. The Lovers and the Devil symbolize this quite 
well. 


Multi 6 Values 

Repetitive-6 values can be an interesting occurrence—this will either be 
someone who would literally give you a kidney or someone who will make you 
regret ever accepting it. The multi 6 is overflowing with good will and good 
intentions, however, this overload of love can easily morph into an overly 
sensitive, moody, and guilt-inducing personality. 

The multi 6 can also manifest as someone who feels the need to control the 
family and all of its inner and outer dealings (especially true if the odd 8 pops up 
as well). This 6 can impose their will and expectations upon others without 
considering what might be best for those within the family structure. This would 
translate into someone who has the genuine interests of the family and 
community at heart, but who only sees their own ideas as viable because they are 
reputedly based on love for all concerned. Understandably, this can and does 
lead to misunderstandings and can even create distance between family 
members. 

In a domestic situation, the multi 6 can point to someone who is overly 
concerned with their family and its inner workings to the point of interference 
and even obsessiveness. The most negative aspects of the multi 6 will show as a 
loss of individual interests and outside connections—the world usually shrinks to 
the world of the home and its members, and emotional suffocation can be 
experienced by all involved. 


A Chart with No 6 Values 

A personality who lacks any 6 values in their chart is rarely overly concerned 
with white picket fences and the traditional family unit. This is not an energy 
that wishes to be tied down in the domestic sense, although there may well be 
strong evidence of community ties and involvement. The opposite type of 
lacking 6 energy often has a block of sorts concerning the traditional family unit 
that usually roots back to childhood. This can cause a disinterest in pursuing 
domestic issues or partnerships. On the other hand, it could well be that 
belonging to a family or even having one is not part of the individual’s intended 


goals and lessons this time around. The other numbers and letters in the chart 
will comment further on this. 


Traditional Meanings 

A positive 6 can be described as the following: loving, kind, gentle, romantic, 
empathic, compassionate, forgiving, home and community oriented, loyal, and 
nurturing. On the flip side, the embattled 6 can become moody, withdrawn, 
passive-aggressive, manipulative, secretive, smothering, needy, and 
temperamental. 


Words that Total to Number 6 

The following words total to a 6 energy and reflect the essence of home, family, 
and community: live, homes, garage, couch, sleep, mom, son, daughters, baby, 
cry, compassion, loyal, summer, artist, society, and church. 


Lifepath of the Number 6 

The Lifepath of the 6 involves nurturing family, friends, and community. As 
such, its primary meaning involves love—of a person or a group, a home or an 
area, an idea or ideal. The 6 is loyal and upstanding and is attracted to things of 
beauty, which means they appreciate the luxuries of life but do not obsess over 
having them. However, they are usually conscious of their appearance and 
present themselves in the best light possible. Proper yet charming, the 6 is 
generally a calm and gentle person who is respected within their social circle and 
much loved in the home. 

Another level of the Lifepath 6 involves removing barriers that present blocks 
to attaining domestic bliss. Sometimes the lesson for the Lifepath 6, like all 
others, can involve becoming the essence of the number, or working on opening 
a path thereto. 


Challenge for the Number 6 

The challenge for the number 6 is to expand their world from one of home to one 
of community. This number energy is one of Universal love and the challenge 
involves the Family of Man rather than one man’s family. The work of the 6 
should reflect this connection. The 6 is also warned against allowing their sense 
of identity to merge with that of their family or job. They need to be personally 


aware of their own power and individuality and work to not disappear into any 
unit, be that family or otherwise. 


Quirky Phrase to Remember the 6 By 


6 Voluptuous Union Workers 


This should help you remember that number 6 is valued by the letters V, U, and 
W. 


IL CARRO yI | THE CHARIOT 


Number Seven (7): The Brain—Logic | wcs VII ecaro 
vs. Spirit TE a Eg 
Upon returning to our Lone Man family a few 


years later, we find our teenager has become a 
young adult who is now somewhat older and, 
hopefully, wiser. The free-for-all experimentation 
of the 5 phase and the regrouping of the 6 phase 
has allowed time for thought and even for some 
level of planning: the number 7 speaks to the 
power of the brain. As our teenager passes into 
adulthood, childish thought patterns are replaced 
by more mature ones. This is the time during 
which our young person will begin to formulate 


ideas and use the power of the intellect and iii Se SS 
DER WAGEN DE ZEGEWAGEN 


intuition to guide future decisions and to define 
future directions. 

Should you find this number in a key spot or two, know that you are ruled by 
your brain: the enigmatic 7 primarily concerns using our thought processes to 
realize true wisdom (or, perfect thoughts), which can traditionally only be 
realized one way and that is through direct and varied life experiences that are 
given deep, intellectual, objective, and, eventually, spiritual thought. This 
number essence is also very intriguing: it is the protected number of the occult 
(that which is not seen and needs to be investigated in order to be understood) 


and holds incredible power and potential, but only if its power is acknowledged, 
honored, respected, and gratefully and graciously used. The number 7 rules the 
consciousness and is composed of two separate and distinct schools of thought: 
the practical logic of the scientist in a lab and the abstract aura of the 
metaphysician in a forest. The idea here is to grow beyond the parameters of 
logic to embrace that which may seem, upon first glance, rather illogical or 
arcane (and includes anything beyond the parameters of normal, like 
numerology, for example), but is actually part of the overall truths upon which 
wisdom is based, and for this reason, I feel this number is both feminine and 
masculine: its logic feels male while its mystique feels feminine. 

Silence can play a large part in the life of the 7, as, for the most part, thoughts 
are inner vibrations and involve plenty of good old-fashioned thinking, 
reminiscing, and rumination. The facts of daily existence are part of this process, 
but so too is the contemplation of what lies beyond the parameters of daily 
existence: some 7s will investigate this question while others will not. Therein 
lies the challenge for the distinguished 7—to think or not to think about the 
world of spirit and what might exist alongside us or await us beyond this 
physical reality. However, while most 7s are either one type or the other, the 
brain-driven, intellectual, and logical 7 is most common, and will often remain 
unenlightened unless an event or highly influential person provokes a 
metamorphosis or an epiphany (or they are born under one of the water signs of 
the zodiac, especially Cancer and Pisces, which would leave them naturally open 
to metaphysical exploration), and as such, they will walk this Earth seeking 
(logical) perfection in the self and in others. This energy can also find it very 
difficult to disassociate itself from the past—to release bygone experiences or 
memories. 

The personality of the 7 is one of striving, of seeking, and of living logical 
perfection. They are industrious students, excellent educators, keen scientists, 
talented computer programmers, respected nurses or doctors, and exceptional 
lawyers, and will usually excel in any position of authority, responsibility, and 
trust. They present themselves as in control, secure, and at ease. The reality 
beneath the act is that the 7 is constantly analyzing, dissecting, judging, re- 
arranging, and fixing, as their brain is in constant motion and, like a computer, 


scientifically and judiciously oriented. It justifies its actions by holding fast to 
the belief that it is truly trying to do the logical, best, and proper thing for all 
concerned in any given situation. However, despite this genuine desire to help, 
emotions are often kept under strict guard, a condition that places restrictions 
upon open displays of affection. Logical 7 energies are not overly tactile, nor are 
they overly emotional. 

The 7 who lives primarily inside its own head may walk a fine, stressful line 
between maintaining their dignity and reserve, while trying to ignore a sense of 
emotional imbalance that results from their reclusive and perfectionist 
tendencies. This can result in what I call a heartblock—a deep, silent 
unhappiness that can become toxic over time and lead to all kinds of physical 
ailments, and fairly serious ones, at that. The undeveloped number 7 can become 
world-weary, jaded, disillusioned, and if there have been significant failures at 
establishing close, personal friendships or relationships, they may well find 
themselves alone in their impeccable home and life. The multi 7 especially can 
find that over time they have built a wall, one which effectively blocks both the 
way in and the way out. As difficult as this may be to understand, many 7s feel 
safe in this self-imposed prison. To them, it represents protection and order, and 
since each person has his or her own path to follow, this is often exactly what the 
reserved 7 is destined to do, and no amount of advice or coaxing will (or should) 
make it otherwise. (Indeed, it is inadvisable to interfere in another’s Lifepath or 
assigned lessons. We all create the situations for the manifestation of 
circumstances required to teach us the very things we are here to learn.) 

The resilience of this type of 7 is actually quite remarkable—it relies on facts 
and tangible evidence to gauge future actions and can become a force to be 
reckoned with, but it will only come into its true potential once the mind opens 
wide enough to allow the entry of spiritual and metaphysical data. 

The magick of the 7 and the dismal outcome of ignoring or misusing its gifts 
are equal in power. Anyone who is under the influence of this vibration and 
accepts and grows into its magickal properties will experience magickal 
occurrences and revelations. Those who choose to ignore and subjugate this 
natural process will likely experience a sense of dissatisfaction, or of having 
missed something, and sometimes this feeling can be quite intense. 


In a nutshell, the lesson or challenge inherent in this energy is for the holder to 
apply their considerable brain power, data processing, and analytical acumen to 
the investigation of the unscientific. It is a challenge many restrained holders of 
the name number 7 will find difficult to meet, yet it is as easy as picking up a 
spiritually based book and opening up to its contents. 

Consequently, there are two types of 7s running around. Type one appears 
very together, yet is also distant. Closer inspection can reveal a level of 
expectation that may come across as critical and even judgmental, yet there is an 
open friendliness, and often many social avenues and connections. This energy 
will be difficult to get close to on a personal level but will be an exceptional 
worker, highly responsible, social, intelligent, and articulate, and will appear in 
control of themselves and their situations. This type of 7 is hard to get a handle 
on; they do not open up emotionally very often. 

Type two will be the antithesis of type one and may even appear very strange 
upon first meeting. This 7 may seem eccentric, different, or “not all there,” 
which is to say that they are, indeed, not all here. This energy is open to other 
dimensions, interests, lifestyles, belief systems, and the many forms of artistic 
expression, but shares the intellect of the rational 7. An open 7 may be involved 
in metaphysical pursuits, healing and alternate spiritual and health quests or 
forms of dramatic or artistic expression, all of which can make for a fascinating 
and appealing personality. 

This number energy has mystical and occult connections and connotations. Its 
metaphysical power is fairly common knowledge, even among those who do not 
know they believe—after all, how many times have you seen folks sitting before 
the one-armed bandits that litter casinos, just praying for those precious 7s to 
drop down to the pay line, one after the other? When the bells whistle and the 
lights flash and the winner walks away, he or she feels touched by luck, even if 
the payout was in pennies. 

The 7 is an odd energy. It can work wonders, or it can work disasters. Its 
darker side can involve scary, weird, downright strange and eerie occurrences. It 
holds a kind of peculiar power, which can swing either way depending upon the 
energies affecting it. Its negative or undeveloped side also has a propensity to be 
connected to unfortunate events. For instance, Norma Jean Baker was a 7, and 


despite a name change (Marilyn Monroe, which totals to Master Number 11 and 
carries the potential for either a very positive or a very negative outcome), she 
did not escape the negative side of the fickle 7. Neither did John Belushi or 
Cleopatra. Extremely negative 7 energies include Adolf Hitler, Theodore Robert 
Bundy, David Berkowitz, and Gary Ridgway. 

Abraham Lincoln and Christopher Columbus are great examples of the 
positive 7 energy and what it is capable of creating or achieving. 

We have all heard the saying “from the mouths of babes” and experienced a 
wry recognition of the often-uncomfortable truths an innocent child will speak. 
Some may also have heard the notion that all information gathered and 
experiences had by a child until the age of 7 will dictate the adult he or she 
becomes. A young child is a clear and open channel and conduit who radiates 
and receives pure truth, intuition, and wisdom and has not yet learned about 
doubt, betrayal, or fear; he or she trusts and believes everyone and everything. In 
the eyes of a child, we can see the beauty of pure wisdom and untroubled 
understanding. (In fact, the word “child” is a number 16/7.) 

The child as I just described is the perfect example of a developed 7: a clean 
and unclouded openness that thirsts for knowledge and receives it just as 
eagerly. We have all seen such children (Mattie Stepanek, a young poet and 
peacemaker, born on the 17th day of the 7th month and whose domestic energy 
was 7) and understand their rarity. Rarer still would be to find such an open 
channel in an adult. 

The wise 7 would honor and investigate the other side of reality. It is 
mysterious, electric, and powerful, and will never truly be understood by man, 
but it can be accepted and respected in a logical way by anyone, and once 
something is truly understood, its gifts come into play and the intuitive and 
spiritual side of the logical 7 awakens. 

Number 7 contains the seeds of both absolute positive and absolute negative, 
much as a child can grow to be one or the other. For the 7, the key is to attempt 
to view the world through the eyes of innocence, without fear, doubt, or ridicule. 

Here are some interesting sayings, or facts, about this number. We are all 
familiar with the idea that God made the world, then rested on the 7th day. We 
gaze in wonder upon the 7 colors of the rainbow, work on balancing the 7 chakra 


centers in our bodies, look forward to certain of the 7 days in a week, and enjoy 
trying to express ourselves using the 7 notes in the scale on a piano. We cross 
the 7 seas and search the skies for that elusive 7th heaven, but are more likely 
feeling the 7-year itch even as we catalog the 7 deadly sins and count how many 
of the 7 virtues we may still have. Or not. And then we break a mirror and 
speculate for just a moment about the 7 years of bad luck often attached to such 
an event. Speaking of luck (good or bad), those familiar with knot magick will 
know that 7 knots are used for spellbinding and that incantations are often 
repeated 7 times. I suppose the hidden perfection of this vibration would be most 
clearly delineated in the pure gold intention of the alchemist—a goal involving 7 
metals. Suffice it to say that this energy is one great-big mystery which holds 
wonders, revelations, puzzles, riddles, tests, and rewards, and this is supported 
by the fact that almost all cultures view it as the number of perfection and as 
having connewctions to higher levels of perception and consciousness. The 7 is 
the total of all there is: the 3 of the heavens (the Holy Trinity) and the 4 of the 
Earth (the 4 directions, seasons, and elements), and as such, anything is possible. 

If you have one or two of these number energies anywhere in your chart, 
please do yourself a huge favor (if you have not already done so) and begin to 
acknowledge and pay some mind to your third eye. There is another world right 
in front of you that you have perhaps seen but not registered. If that concept 
seems rather odd, consider this—the best way to hide something is to do so in 
plain sight. Once pointed out, however, it is impossible to “unsee” and a whole 
new dimension unfolds. 

If you are unsure of how to start, visit your local library, metaphysical store, or 
intuitive reader. In the last two cases, please rely on your intuition to guide you 
to the right place or person. (In layman’s terms, “trust your gut.”) 

While one would not necessarily immediately connect the Major Arcana tarot 
card of the Chariot (7) to logical thought, it is accurately represented. If one 
looks carefully at the sphinxes (one black and the other white, to reflect positive 
and negative forces) who will lead the Chariot, it is clear that instead of facing us 
straight on, each is headed in a slightly outward direction, which means that any 
forward movement will result in a stalemate: neither creature will move. The 
failure of intent goes back to incomplete thinking—the route and vehicle were 


not prepared, which means the brain was not fully engaged. Any action must be 
backed up by rational planning (especially when there is a vehicle involved). So 
this message is asking us to think, to use our brains, literally. 

Another aspect to the Chariot is that it was used in ancient battle situations— 
and a large part of winning was in intuiting the enemy’s next move and planning 
a counter move. Hence, the Chariot points to the combined use of the intuition 
and the intellect (the two sides of the 7) as being the most effective methods 
toward achieving success. Therefore, the Chariot is making a specific request 
and that is to put the brain into gear. 

The Major Arcana tarot card of the Tower (16) can appear somewhat 
intimidating in that it pictures an exploding tower, flames, bodies falling, and 
lightning flashing. Not surprisingly, it indicates that all is not as it appears to be 
and that disruption and upheaval are occurring or imminent. Since the sub 
number 16 indicates the force of love, it is usually reflective of family, close 
connections, and intimate dealings that essentially “blow up.” 

And how does this connect to the brain-ruled 


number 7? The outer circumstances are the result 
of inner thoughts; the presence of misguided or 
wrong thinking has successfully (until now) 
covered the truth of the situation. These thought 
patterns involve lying to the self, explaining away 
that which does not fit, chastising the self for 
doubting, out-talking the intuition, and generally 


SS 
SS 


hi 


avoiding reality (and reality checks). The truth has 
been submersed and ignored for so long that 


f 
[4 
j 
$ 
í 
d 
i 
j 


sudden revelations can cause life-changing 


= 
== 
Dit aA 


explosions and the destruction of what we had 
previously “lived with.” However, there is always 
a positive (even in a negative), and in this case, the 


m 


DER TURM DE TOREN 


Tower allows toxic energies to burn up and blow 


away, leaving a calm, if drained, feeling of peace 
in its wake. From there, a new 
life can be built. So while this card may appear to have nothing to do with the 


brain and everything to do with the devastation of relationships and things and 
people and even places we thought we loved, the reality of this message is “your 
brain knew all of this and tried to tell you—you just wouldn’t listen.” 

Both cards testify to the power of the brain and of its thoughts, and the 
positive and negative repercussions these can carry. 


Multi 7 Values 
In the case of many 7s in a chart, any affront, real or imagined, will force this 
number personality to withdraw in an effort to protect themselves. Although 
highly intelligent, the multi 7 can become so protective and unapproachable that 
close and open relationships can become impossible to instigate or maintain, and 
existing ones can become extremely uncomfortable. It is for this regrettable 
reason that many “set” 7s will find themselves alone in the long run (however, it 
is never too late, as the saying goes, to learn something new). Their emotions are 
often buried under so much logic and so many protective layers that any 
uncontrolled feelings can cause intense confusion, anger, and defensiveness, 
which is a great reason to steer clear of this kind of vibration. 

Plenty of 7 values can also be read as an active prod towards opening the mind 
enough to evaluate the merit of alternative topics. A brilliant mind is one that is 
truly open to all. 


A Chart with No 7 Values 
A person who shows no 7 values in their name read does not usually assign 
major importance to scientific logic; in fact, the absence of this energy can be 
viewed as a good thing, as this number energy can sometimes be quite restrictive 
in terms of spiritual development. The struggle, after all, is mostly about opening 
the psyche enough to allow the possibility of other, more “out there” thoughts to 
enter. 

The lack of the number 7 energy indicates normal thought processes and an 
awareness that is accepting of, but not overly interested in, the world of 
metaphysics and spirituality. 


Traditional Meanings 
Some of the positive descriptives of the 7 include intelligent, dignified, efficient, 
reliable, calm, studious, investigative, discriminating, resilient, conversant, and 


capable. On the flip side, some negatives include distant, aloof, critical, 
judgmental, manipulative, argumentative, proud, angry, and even abusive. 


Words that Total to Number 7 

Here are some interesting words that total to 7 and illustrate both the elements of 
esoteric mystery and the practical art of education: intuition, mystic, child, 
dreams, ghosts, Ouija board, hell, numerology, science, scientific, intelligence, 
supervisor, teacher, and studious. 


Lifepath for the Number 7 

The essence of the number 7 Lifepath can be a difficult one. Like the brain has 
two halves, so too does this Lifepath. The goal is to combine these two halves 
into one happily functioning unit. The logical and pragmatic 7 may find their life 
limited in many ways; they will tend to be somewhat reticent in nature although 
there can be a disguised interest in the other half of existence that is often not 
pursued. This would fit in with maintaining a dignified, reserved, logical, and 
pragmatic front—rarely do others truly understand the hows and whys of this 
person’s thoughts or emotions. The other 7 Lifepath involves active 
investigation of the unseen, the mysterious, and the unconventional, and often 
takes the form of someone others may view as slightly eccentric or different. For 
both types of 7, the goal is the same: the logical 7 must embrace the 
metaphysical half while the metaphysical 7 must embrace the logical half—this 
will result in the creation of a whole being. This number’s goal is to seek the 
knowledge and truth behind everything; therefore there can be no exceptions. 
The bigger picture contains all aspects (whether seen or not seen), and true 
understanding of who or what forms this bigger picture can only be 
accomplished once the two halves have merged only then does “perfection” of 
thought manifest. 


Challenge for the Number 7 

Although the typical 7 is deeply thoughtful and contemplative, they often lack 
the openness that allows emotional and physical intimacy with others. This is the 
key lesson: to be open enough to allow others into their emotional space and to 
show genuine affection in both actions and words. The 7 must remove their coat 
of armor and risk being vulnerable—a challenge some will find almost 


impossible to meet. 


Quirky Phrase to Remember the 7 By 
7 (the land of) OZ 
This should help you remember that the number 7 represents the letters O and Z. 


The Number Eight (8): Balance—Matter | vio Vill Aiea 


vs. Spirit 
We have now advanced even further along the 
path of the Lone Man family: pursuant to the 


thought-intensive phase of the 7, information, 
lessons, and conclusions have accumulated and 
growth has occurred. Life experiences have 
rounded out their individual and collective worlds, 
and one of the realizations along the way becomes 
common to the entire family. That realization 
concerns the limits of our reality, for beyond it lies 
the unknown, the unseen, and death itself. 
Contemplation of these and other mysteries leads 


to a new understanding—a confusing one at times, 


= GET tess. = == | 
DIE STARKE DE KRACHT 


but now they see that the material world upon 
which they had based their entire existence is only a fraction of the truth. They 
understand that there is more to this world than the eye can see and, as a result, 
their physical surroundings take on a unique new light. The material world and 
their place in it is now of as equal import as the spiritual world and their place in 
it. What they cannot see or touch becomes as real to them as what they can see 
and touch. One has become as real as the other. They are now poised to attain 
perfect existential balance, which is the final form a developed 8 will take. 
Anyone walking around carrying the 8 energy has at their disposal a vast 
amount of incredible power; although it can materialize in differing forms One 
person may run their domestic abode with a strict hand and prefer that his or her 
surroundings and the people in it are always impeccable, understated, and 
perfectly presentable. Breakfast, lunch, and dinner are at the same time every 


day, and bedtime is at the same time every evening (no one would even think to 
argue). The family is run similar to a classroom or, in severe cases, a military 
academy, and there is no doubt in anyone’s mind who is in charge. 

Another 8 may manifest as the president and owner of his own company who 
may be rich and successful but lacks respect and affection from and for his 
employees: in fact, they may actively dislike him and go out of their way to 
avoid him. This type of 8 is dedicated to controlling every aspect of his business 
life and those in it, and will not tolerate anything less than perfection and respect 
from those around him. He is not emotional, does not offer praises or raises, 
rarely smiles, does not want to hear complaints (even if they are valid) and is, in 
general, a pain-in-the-you-know-what kind of boss. This man lacks compassion 
and understanding for others, and his only concern is the bottom line: how much 
money he is making and how he can make more. 

Either personality exists and each reflects the 8 in its own way, but the main 
issue around these types of energies is control, which is why I tend to assign this 
powerful and dominant number masculine energies, although in a perfect world, 
every number would be both. 

The 8 is formed by two zeros, or ciphers, one atop the other, and represents the 
lemniscate, or symbol of perfect balance (imagine the 8 tipped onto its side and 
you will see this symbol), which is echoed in the elementals of yin and yang, 
masculine/feminine, and “as above, so below.” Its symbol is found on several 
tarot cards, such as the Magician, Strength, and the World. (I often connect the 
lemniscate to the pattern described in the air by the wand of an orchestra 
conductor as he leads his musicians; they create perfect pitch, perfect timing, and 
perfect harmony. If the music is hypnotic in nature, he also creates perfect 
balance in the souls or spirits of the listeners.) 

If both circles are of the same size, it indicates equality: the developed 8 holds 
the same intensity of regard for the material Earth plane as for the spiritual, 
unseen plane. (An interesting note: if you look in an old book, the 8 is 
represented with a larger “O” on the bottom and a smaller “o” on the top. This 
would be symbolic of the tendency of most 8 energies to focus on the material 
world: money, control, power, gain, and success here on this Earth, as 


(73 


represented by the lower “o.” The spiritual aspect of existence is of less 


significance: the smaller “o” on the top is reflective of this.) 

As with the 7, the 8 is rarely found as fully developed. Often, the draw of 
materialism can trap this vibration into being interested only in that which they 
can see and touch and own: security comes in the form of cold hard cash, 
possessions, and positions of authority and respect, which would explain why 
many executives, presidents, lawyers, judges, and other authority figures carry 8 
energies. 

These individuals are generally rational, resourceful, organized, ambitious, 
unemotional, publicly undemonstrative, and not overtly interested in the spiritual 
or metaphysical side of life. This is not to say that all 8s are atheistic or agnostic; 
some will attend church regularly or donate to charities; but the undeveloped 8 
does often lacks true humanitarian emotion and wears a façade complete with 
overcoat, sunshades, and hat. 

The true nature of the power 8 is rarely revealed: it is as good as the 
(undeveloped) 7 at cover-ups. The lessons of the 7 play a large role here: if the 
brain has not been enlightened by Spirit, the 8 will starve from a lack of 
philosophic food. 

Here is a seemingly contradictory fact about the 8—beneath its camouflage 
and bravado, the 8 is actually very shy. It prefers to control its surroundings and 
the content of its life because it is afraid of failure or the loss of control; one of 
the greatest fears of the average 8 is suffering through the loss of prestige and 
power. This will manifest as deep feelings of insecurity, which will most 
definitely not show. The heart of the 8 often feels misunderstood, alone, and 
lonely and has historically been called upon to suffer great tragedies, losses, 
sorrows, and sometimes humiliations. The reason for this is simple: the 8 
vibration must learn to use the power inherent in this energy to benefit humanity, 
and said power must be used in simple, honest, and spiritual ways. The 
following gives you an idea of why I call the 8 highly complex. 

The symbol of the cipher (circle) holds all. In the case of the 8, two ciphers are 
connected, which will naturally intensify the power of the following description. 
The 0, or zero, is the alpha and the omega. Its shape can be seen in the form of 
the double DNA helix and in the interlocking serpents of the symbol of 
medicine. It is the ouroboros—the snake eating its tail. It is the inside and the 


outside. Its symbols form the circles inside the Flower of Life. It is the “in utero” 
and the pregnant woman. It is the beginning and the end: life and death. It is both 
ends of the magickally revealing telescope. It is the shape of a coin and the string 
of zeros that increase its value. It is the roundness of the moon that reflects the 
life-giving and glowing circle of the sun. 

If this multifaceted and downright exhilarating power is used for personal gain 
(especially at the expense of others), without the balance of spiritual awareness, 
it will provide one hell of a karmic kickback. The power of the ego is massive, 
and as the old adage says: the bigger they are, the harder they fall. The 8 may 
well suffer repeated professional and personal downfalls until they get the 
message, the core of which revolves around the ability to feel compassion for 
others, an emotion the 8 will only ever truly know after they themselves have 
undergone considerable hardship and heartache. 

In business, it may be fine and good, even desirable, to have one or two of 
these powerhouse energies in your comer as an ally. However, if you dislike the 
tiniest hint of a materialistic, power-oriented controller in your mate, you may 
want to keep looking. And counting. 

If, by some stroke of lovely fortune, you have attracted into your life (or even 
have developed into) a positive, fully developed 8, you are one blessed person, 
indeed. The true 8 is an advertisement for positivity: spiritually awake and 
aware, loving and balanced, fair in all its dealings, wealthy yet humble, generous 
to a fault (without expecting anything in return), unassuming yet highly 
intelligent, a creative genius, an attentive and devoted and unselfish lover, 
friend, son, brother, or father, and a person we would all love to have as a 
political leader. Enough said? 

As a matter of interest, here are but a few examples of the pure power held in 
an 8 name: John F. Kennedy, Martin Luther King, Paul Allen (Microsoft co- 
founder), and President Barack Obama. Barack totals to an 11, which suggests 
an imaginative, sensitive, intuitive, and sympathetic personality, while Obama 
totals to a 15/6, or the loving, caring, nurturing aspect of a parent, or a safe 
haven with community overtones. The “O” of Obama further suggests an 
openness, a potential leap forward in progress, and when his entire name is 
combined, he reads as a 17/8: a leader who is tuned in to the people around him 


and also to himself but who may also struggle against both arcane powers and 
his own mental directions (7). Remember that the 8, while being one of the most 
powerful numbers in terms of achievements and so on, is also susceptible to 
complete and utter loss of balance. The combination of the 11 and the 6 do, 
however, point to a President who can and truly does imagine a perfect and 
loving world. The question is whether he will be able to attain the world-wide 
balance this would require. There is little doubt that he leans towards the positive 
8—one who is spiritually and materialistically balanced—however, the Master 
11 in his name energies can also forecast a certain dreamlike quality to his 
visions, which is in conflict with the control and authority of the 8. 

The sheer power of this number energy is loaded into the Major Arcana tarot 
card of Strength (8). At the core, its meanings center around authority and 
control; however, Strength talks about having the courage and resolve to 
acknowledge and calm one’s own inner beasts, thereby gaining control over 
personal emotions and reactions. So while this image shows a lady ostensibly 
calming the lion, this message actually refers to controlling the self: both 
through attaining high levels of self-acceptance, faith, peace, and compassion 
within the soul, and by being able to calm others as a result. This is why the 
young lady pictured here is able to place her hand near the mouth of the lion and 
not have it removed for her. She is balanced in body, mind, and spirit and knows 
no fear, which is shown in the lemniscate floating above her head. This lack of 
fear and her inner serenity is sensed by the lion she strokes and affects him 
accordingly. 

On another level of strength stands the Major Arcana Tarot card of the Star 
(17), and its message is similar to Strength: to achieve ideal balance and the gift 
of serenity and acceptance. However, there is another level to this vibration. The 
old chant from childhood might help explain it: “star light, star bright, first star 
that I’ve seen tonight, I wish I may I wish I might have this wish I wish tonight.” 
The sub message of this card is that once complete symmetry between the 
spiritual and material worlds is reached, thoughts and dreams can become real. 
In a way, this card connects to the Law of Attraction in that how thoughts are 
formed and projected can dictate your circumstances, surroundings, and even the 
events of your life. This card is representative of the actuality of reaching a place 


of acceptance and perfect balance, which is shown in the woman’s stance—one 
knee is firmly planted on the grass, while the other foot rests in the water. 
Further, she carries two jugs of equal size and is pouring water both onto the 
land and into the water ... poetry in motion. The perfect balance between matter 
(the earth) and purity of spirit (the water) has been reached and is being tended 
by the woman. Realizing that the worlds of spirit and materialism are equal in 
strength often ushers in a time of dreams coming true; the focus of the “force of 
the brain” (17) points this out quite clearly. 


The two examples of 8 energies are quite 
different, as you can see. However, both refer to | «seors XVII  wtsrea 
personal strength and how it can affect and 
improve life. 


Multi 8 Values 

In the event of multiple 8 values in a read, chances 
are good that power and control will be important 
factors in the life of the holder. Material 
possessions, career success, respect, and authority 
will be strong motivators, but consideration of the 


meaning of life is not often found in the top ten of 


arp RAK 
rana 


(Be 


the priority list. One of the aforementioned pitfalls 
that this type of 8 energy can encounter is failure 


; : Pe iF wa W = 
on a recurring basis. Hence, the realization that RK BO = a 
DER STERN DE STER 


there is another reality beyond this material one is 


almost necessary before the 8 will find lasting 

success. However, this observation is not cast in stone: there are positively 
developed 8 energies (those who truly feel compassion for others and also regard 
the spiritual side of life as intrinsic to existence on the material plane), and those 
people will find lasting and meaningful success in their lives in which 
materialism has a place, but one which is not considered the be-all and end-all of 
life. Rather, these kinds of 8 energies will use their success and status to assist 
others in meaningful and ongoing ways. 


A Chart with No 8 Values 


A personality who shows no 8 values in their read is normally a soul who is not 
concerned with amassing power or material wealth, nor in holding positions of 
authority for the personal purpose of satisfying the ego. Someone who lacks the 
8 energy is often fairly easy-going and takes great pleasure in the surprises and 
gifts life offers, but can also find themselves drifting without a definitive 
purpose or direction. 


Traditional Meanings 

The usual terms used to describe the average 8 include determined, tenacious, 
focused, intelligent, powerful, inventive, organized, successful, adaptable, 
generous, charming, and inspiring. A few negatives for the 8 are almost 
predictable and they are controlling, unemotional, egomaniacal, judgmental, 
critical, condescending, secretive, materialistic, and sometimes abusive. 


Words that Total to an 8 

These words all total to 8 and refer to success or the different aspects of balance: 
dictator, oath, logic, tenacious, success, organized, freedom, life, community, 
planet, earth, airplane, abstain, guilt, psychotic, and grave. 


Lifepath for the Number 8 

The average 8 will be attracted to power, money, and success and will often find 
themselves in positions of authority and influence. This number energy is willing 
to do the work required to achieve status and respect. Focused on progress and 
responsibility, the 8 can experience success in various areas and generally is 
very self-confident and goal-oriented. If the 8 learns its lessons regarding 
compassion and sharing, the sky is the limit in terms of power amassed and 
material gain accumulated. 


Challenge for the Number 8 

This powerful number is challenged to accept the existence of another realm that 
cannot be seen yet holds supreme power and control over life. Simply put, they 
must come to understand that they are not, after all, the ultimate “boss.” The 8 is 
challenged to develop compassion and to maintain humility so that it may come 
into perfect balance and thereby realize lasting success, both spiritually and 
materially. If the spiritual side of life is ignored, the 8 can find themselves in 


repetitive cycles that involve dramatic gains and losses. 


Quirky Phrase to Remember the 8 By 


8 Fair Politicians 


This should help you to remember that the number 8 represents the letters F and 
P. 


The Number Nine (9): Endings and UERMNE |X eveemiiano 

Beginnings ooo | 
Have you ever met an old lady or man (I am 
referring to someone who is over 90) who just 
seems so kind, gentle, sweet, wise, and lovable 
that you want to take them home and place them 
in a rocking chair in front of your fireplace? I 
have. Maybe once or twice. These are the 
relatively rare folks who have learned the lessons 
of their lives, accepted and integrated them, and 
who are now ready to move on. They radiate an 
inner peace and tolerance, which is the energy we 
respond to as it reflects the peace we all wish for 
ourselves. This number’s nature is magickal and 
its power revered by the ancients. The 9 is 
considered sacred, as it is the highest level of 
spiritual awareness attainable before reaching Master Numbers and is the end of 
one set of lessons and the beginning of another. These rare people seem to 


DER EREMIT DE KLUIZENAAR 


understand this cycle and are in the process of both releasing and anticipating— 
they will finally discover what lies beyond for themselves. 

Let us now visit with our Lone Man family once again. The original structure 
of the family unit has ended. The young parents are now old and their child has 
become an adult and has begun a family as well: one family form is ending 
while another has already begun. On another level lies the understanding of the 


parents that one phase of life is ending and another has yet to begin: they will 
shortly leave the confines of their physical bodies and embark on a new and 
unique adventure which, as yet, remains a mystery, but one which does not 
frighten them. Once the parents have passed, their child will begin yet another 
phase of existence—one that no longer includes his parents. 

Again, the number 9 is all about endings and beginnings and is considered a 
hallowed number, similar to the 7, but for different reasons. The 9 encompasses 
all of the lessons held in the prior number energies of 1 through 8 and is also the 
embodiment of purity in creation (9 is the triple 3, Triad, or 3x3—in fact, any 
multiplication of this digit will always begin and end with the number 9). This is 
the completion that leads to the doorway of the number 10. 

Ideally, the 9 is highly developed, compassionate, spiritual, creative, empathic, 
unselfish, intuitive, and motivated by brotherly love. These qualities can be 
illustrated with the use of one name and whether one is religious or not is beside 
the point—it is the simple calculation of the name in question that is 
significantly illuminating. Jesus totals to a (18) 9. Christ totals to a (18) 9. The 
two names together total to a (36) 9. Again, religion aside, this person is 
purported to have been gentle, kind, forgiving, and benevolent while 
demonstrating unconditional compassion and offering lessons in truth and love. 
Further, this man seemed to be connected to a Higher Power. He knew what 
would befall him (intuitively and psychically), seemed to possess mystical 
powers (turning water into wine and one loaf of bread into enough to feed 
hundreds, and even walking on water—all carry an element of magick) and lived 
by divine laws. The two 18s speak to the “force of control and balance in all 
things,” while the 36 speaks to the “activity and thought of nurturing and love.” 
Both fit the overall description, or energy, of the man. Jesus also has a distinct 
beginning, despite already being an adult, and a distinct ending. (Two other 
examples of the 9 energy are John Wayne [18/9 x 2] and Elvis Presley [18/9 and 
27/9]: both were regarded as soulful and benevolent men.) 

The truly developed 9 has indeed incorporated all of the difficult lessons 
inherent in the experiences of 1 through 8 and understands that there is a higher 
power at work and that this knowledge is to be shared without reservation. It is 
for these reasons that the number 9 is assigned no letters and thus presents 


another of the major differences between the simplified Pythagorean method of 
numerology and the Chaldean (or original) method of numerology. 

The number 9 personality has likely survived some harsh life lessons, which 
can range from abuse to poverty to all points in between. This makes sense when 
one considers that the tougher the lessons (moving through “grades” 1 through 
8), the harder the homework. These are sympathetic, sensitive, and romantic 
people who have often endured great hardship and pain; if they assimilate and 
learn the lessons held within such negativity, they can become great artists, 
healers, counselors, spiritual leaders, writers, speakers, teachers—and many 
other positions that are aimed at assisting, inspiring, or motivating others. This 
number energy feels both feminine and masculine to me, as pain and hardship 
and the desire to assist knows no sex. 

Unfortunately, the 9 is prone to depression if unenlightened, misunderstood, 
ridiculed, abused, or betrayed, which can, in turn, lead to escapist tendencies 
such as those offered by the use of drugs and alcohol. While the 9 is liable to 
sudden, unexpected outbursts of temper, these are rare, as they are normally 
extremely patient or simply passive. This passivity can also lead to financial 
instability, as the 9 is not generally overly concerned with the materialistic side 
of life, and therefore money is not a prime concern. It is almost as if the 9 knows 
through its faith that all will be there as needed, which by definition means 
exactly that, what is needed will be there, but extra may not be. It is a 
complicated energy but one that is compelling and sometimes even slightly 
hypnotic. 

The 9 will do well working on their own in some form of artistic, spiritual, 
intuitive, or healing/helping field and makes a loving (if slightly perplexing) 
romantic partner. To the developed 9, the search for spiritual truth will be 
paramount and can result in shifts in interests, focus, and growth in general, 
which can create rifts between partners, especially if one is not on the same path 
as the other. Remember, the 9 heralds completion followed by new beginnings. 

The 9 finds trust the most difficult issue to come to terms with, as this has 
usually been violated regularly during formative years. The 9 may be open and 
loving and all of those wonderful things and yet still be stuck when it comes to 
trusting someone or something implicitly; often actions and time are involved in 


order to gain that trust. However, once it has been earned, the 9 will return that 
trust unerringly and their loyalty will be unwavering. 

The mystical energy of this number essence is represented by the Major 
Arcana tarot card of the Hermit (9), which revolves around beginnings and 
endings and the roads taken or not taken. The Hermit is a loner: by choice, he 
removes himself from (or ends) his involvement with the normal trappings of 
life and society and withdraws to begin consideration of his own spirit and how 
it connects to universal energies. In this image, he is depicted as traversing a 
rather barren landscape while holding a lantern to illuminate his path (which is a 
metaphor for his soul’s journey), while in others, he is shown as living in a tall 
tower on a distant hill, where he devotes himself to introspection and the search 
for metaphysical and spiritual knowledge. No matter where the Hermit is found, 
he is the ideal example of ending one connection (with the material and with 
society) and beginning another (with himself and Universe). 

Another Major Arcana tarot card that carries the 9 energy is the Moon (18). 
This card also illustrates the theme of beginnings and endings: the moon itself 
appears and disappears with regularity but is never really gone, as it is tied to the 
Sun for life. Further, as it is illustrative of our journey from point A to point B 
(or life and death), it also shows the various distractions (beginnings and 
endings) we must deal with along the way: in this illustration, the dogs seem 
poised to provide at least some of these distractions and even obstacles (it 
depends how friendly they are). The Moon is illuminating and shadow-casting at 
the same time; therefore its connections to the intuition and psychic impressions 
is emphasized—another main aspect to the sensitive 9 energy. This card clearly 
shows the start of the long road that passes through two columns (positive and 
negative experiences and reality versus illusion) that we all have to travel if we 
wish to find out what lies at its end. 

Both of these card energies highlight the mysterious and spiritual tones of the 
empathic and compassionate 9 energy; even the symbols of a solitary robed 
figure and a round, luminescent moon (which looks suspiciously like the Sun, 
the Moon’s “mother”) speak to these energies with understated eloquence. 


Multi 9 Values 


A personality who shows many 9 values in their | wwna XVII] TEMON 

$ i LA LUNE LA LUNA 
names may find the theme of starting and on 
stopping, ending and beginning, trying and failing, 
and having and losing quite tedious and can, 


indeed, become prone to giving up. However, the 
nature of the 9 forces new beginnings, so despite 


var Lr 
L 


4 
= 
Sar. 
ZZ 


setbacks, this vibration will eventually try again. 


= I = aE: 
JA 


LA 


Many 9 values also point to a strong possibility 
that abuse or difficult and trying life experiences 


i : 
i Misan.. 
EN 


have formed and shaped their expectations as 
adults, but the compassion that is part and parcel 
of this essence allows progress to continue, even 
after considerable and repetitive delays. 


A Chart with No 9 Values 

A personality who shows no 9 values in their chart 
is often rather closed to certain esoteric or spiritual ideas (such as the possibility 
of life after death) and might even believe that this life is all there is; that once 
it’s over, it’s over. No rebirth, no second chances, no reincarnation, no judgment. 


DE MAAN 


In such cases, spiritual, metaphysical, and mystical investigations are not usually 
considered worthy of pursuit. Of course, this is a general observation; much 
depends on the other energies in the chart. 


Traditional Meanings 

The number 9 is very easy-going and is often described as intuitive, empathic, 
helpful, imaginative, thoughtful, creative/artistic, intriguing, inquisitive, gentle, 
romantic, sensitive, and spiritual. On the other hand, a negative 9 (one who seeks 
escape) can be lacking in self-esteem and confidence, unfocused, aimless, 
addictive, and wasteful—and is one of those unfortunate number essences that 
might even consider “ending it all,” one of the more permanent methods of 
escape, but not one recommended, for the door of reincarnation awaits. 


Words that Total to Number 9 
Think of the following words, which all total to the number 9, involve a 
beginning or an ending or both: night, dark, war, scream, trauma, rain, 


education, family, heaven, and kiss. 


Lifepath for the Number 9 

The Lifepath of a 9 is perhaps one of the most difficult. Their depth of feeling, 
empathy, imagination, and inner musings can make functioning in a regular job 
something of a challenge. Since the content of a 9 life is subject to a theme of 
ongoing endings and beginnings, changing jobs, locations, relationships, and 
interests (among other things), the 9 can be quite puzzling to others. To make 
matters even more complicated, the Lifepath of the 9 typically involves 
committing to explorations of the other side of life—the unknown and 
mysterious. Overall, this energy is illusive and private and will withdraw rather 
than have to explain or justify itself. The best bet for a 9 Lifepath is to honor 
their calling (the direction their intuition is telling them to go), which will more 
often than not be found in areas that concern assisting others or expressing 
themselves, whether artistically or verbally. Number 9 is highly creative and 
talented; they make exceptional artists or thespians, for example. One of the 
challenges for the 9 is to take the time to try out painting or singing or writing 
for anything they are drawn to will provide the most rewarding results. 

If you are a number 9 Lifepath, do not expect your life to be like others. You 
are a unique entity with unique talents: you are challenged to overcome feelings 
of doubt; understand that everything happened as it was intended and to just do 
it, whatever “‘it” might be for you. 


Challenge for the Number 9 

The challenge for the 9 is to relax into their knowledge and path as spiritual 
students and teachers, and above all, to live as much as possible by the divine 
laws. It is to accept difficult personal and often formative experiences as pivotal 
and necessary to spiritual growth and that pursuit of material possessions and 
positions of supreme authority are actually toxic to their spiritual progress. This 
does not mean a 9 cannot have and enjoy material and financial success, just that 
becoming too attached to the images connected thereto can be damaging to their 
psyche. “Fame is fleeting even as life itself” would likely be one saying readily 
understood by a successful 9. 


Quirky Phrase to Remember the 9 By 


There are no letters for 9. 


This is the end of the regular 1 through 9 number scale; however, there are a few 
more numbers that are worthy of mention because of their intrinsic power or 
unusual histories. 


Number Ten (10): The Turning Point 


The number 10 is not part of the Chaldean chart; however, like the zero, I 
wanted to include it, as it sits in a class by itself and is deserving of special 
mention. This energy is a combination of the Original Force of the number 1 and 
the infinite and potent possibilities inherent in the 0. Put the two together, and 
you have a brand new start. This indicates a returning to the beginning, but in a 
different way, on a different level. 

This is the number of completion (of the scale 1-9), perfection (10 is used to 
illustrate the perfect woman), and a turning point (1 to 10 now becomes 11 to 20, 
21 to 30, 31 to 40, and so on). 

Rebirth, second chances, rising to the challenge, and new purposes are all 
highlighted with the appearance of a 10. In a person’s name or as their date of 
birth, 10 indicates that at some point in the holder’s life, they will undergo a 
transformation or rebirth, and will often have the ability to create or do 
something unique that will become noticed by others and may well serve to 
assist humanity on either a large or a small scale. The potential is there to be 
used or ignored. That will be up to the holder. 

The 10 is a unique vibration that gives the 0, or cipher, a point of focus 
(number 1), and this point will be an original, creative, and singular one. Since 
the 1 is already a force to be reckoned with, imagine the power the 0 adds to it. 

Along with new beginnings, the 10 also brings endings that must be 
experienced and accepted (despite sometimes being quite negative and difficult) 
before the new phase kicks in. The number 10 is also tied to the number 10 card 
of the Tarot, the Wheel of Fortune, which points to coming change. One 
situation will end and another will begin; the endings involved in this process 
can be negative, but the beginnings are usually positive in tone. 


Number Twelve (12): Completion of a Cycle 


The number 12 is found in so many places and demonstrates so many complete 
collections that it deserves mention here as well. Its theme of a complete unit can 
be seen in the 12 apostles, 12 signs of the zodiac, 12 hours in a day and night, 12 
inches in a foot, 12 months in a year, and 12 grades in school. Interestingly, a 
child is considered a teenager (and by definition, no longer a child) once the 12th 
year has passed. The sense of fullness, of having come full circle, and of 
culmination is held in the feeling of this number energy—and that another level 
lies beyond it (which is another interesting number all on its own: number 13). 
This is also the aim of the 12th tarot card of the Hanged Man: the young man has 
actually deliberately hung himself upside down so that he may have both time 
and an altered vantage point from which to consider something—to slow down 
enough to contemplate what has been done and to decide upon his next step, 
which intimates that one phase has ended and another will begin. Once he gets 
down, that is. 

Should you have a few such numbers in your chart, and specifically in your 
Lifepath, chances are good that you are here to act as a finisher of some kind. 
You might be the one who is destined to tie up loose ends (whether they be real 
or imagined), to complete something begun long ago, or to provide mankind 
with answers to questions long standing. The 12 suggests unification and groups; 
its energy can manifest in so many ways, it would be impossible to define all of 
them. Overall, this number is considered a positive one and seems to imply that a 
next level is to come. (Ronald Reagan began and completed his film career and 
began his political step-up all the way to the presidency. He then went on to 
create a new level for Germany as one united country. Mary Magdalene, on the 
other hand, saw the completion of one phase of life for her leader and the 
beginning of the faith that his death birthed. Both were 12 energies, experienced 
in different ways and different times.) 

And there is also the chance that something will occur in this lifetime that is 
necessary to balance out actions or deeds that were either carried out in this 
incarnation or a past one. Look out for that karmic 13! 


Number Thirteen (13): 
Lucky or Not? (The Karmic Debt Club) 


So what does happen to the completion of the 12 if something is added? 
Apparently, it tips the scales. The reputation of the 13 is tied into the balance of 
the 12 and what occurs when that extra 1 is added (and I’m sure the 13th card in 
the tarot—Death—doesn’t help matters). 

Do you see a number 13 anywhere in your chart? If so, you are a card-carrying 
member of what I call the Karmic Debt Club. Do not panic. I, for one, consider 
the number 13 to be a lucky number, despite the theme of negative karma that is 
commonly associated with its essence. Unless you were an exceedingly frightful 
youngster during your formative years, chances are good that debt incurred in 
this life will become due and payable in the next. Consequently, the majority of 
payback in this life was likely incurred in the last. 

Having said that, a perfect example of payment exacted in this lifetime 
appears to be fairly straightforward when one considers the trial of O. J. 
Simpson (whose name, oddly enough, totals to sub number 12) for armed 
robbery and kidnapping, which stemmed from an incident on September 13, 
2007, in Las Vegas. To make a long story short, Simpson was convicted of all 12 
charges on October 3, 2008 (10 + 3 =13), exactly 13 years to the day after he had 
been found not guilty in the deaths of his wife, Nicole Brown Simpson, and her 
friend Ronald Goldman. However, I still believe the number 13 to be a lucky 
number in that it holds the possibility of a fresh start. A new beginning. A clean 
slate and the chance to start over. This is even true for Mr. Simpson. 
Transformations can occur anywhere, even in jail. 

Traditionally, the number 13 has been associated with bad luck. Superstitions 
and hocus-pocus. Witches flying around on broomsticks and stirring their 
cauldrons, urban legends, and dark and stormy Friday nights. A fairly typical 
(“black”) witch’s coven consists of 13 members. The 13th member, by the way, 
is purported to be the Devil himself. (No, I do not believe in the Devil: however, 
I certainly recognize the existence of destructive energy, which can also be 
called evil. Did you ever notice that the word Devil is composed of a Doorway 
to “evil”? And that “evil” reversed is “live’”?) 

While number 13 in and of itself is not unlucky, as its energies translate into 
the “force” (1) of “activity” (3), and total to the firm and foundational 4 that 
provides a secure base from which to operate, it is still subject to instability if the 


base is built on sand or if the energies are used for destructive purposes. 

The history and legend of the number 13 certainly does manifest itself in an 
assortment of weird and illogical ways. We have all noticed various and sundry 
buildings with no room, level, floor, or door number 13, which is also nowhere 
to be found in some offices, airport gates, hotels, parking lots, letter slots, and 
street addresses. My favorite absurdity is the absence of an elevator button for 
the 13th floor. I once lived on the 13th floor of a high-rise and it irked me every 
time I pushed the 14th floor button. You can call it 12 or you can call it 14, but it 
is still the 13th floor. It is impossible to count from 12 to 14. Trust me—I’m a 
numerologist. It cannot be done. It’s as if by erasing the number, the architect 
expects us to accept the absence of part of a physical structure ... a rather funny 
response by society to the superstition with which this number is regarded. 

The most infamous shadow ever cast over the number 13 came in the form of 
Judas as he joined the Last Supper and followed up by not only betraying Jesus, 
but by losing his own life in the process. He was the addition to the 
completeness of the number 12, who swung the energy into the negative. 

King Philip of France (total name and term: 13/4) is also responsible for the 
suspicion with which 13 is viewed. On Friday, October 13, 1307, the king 
ordered the arrest and torture of the then-revered Knights Templar. His charges 
of heresy were apparently primarily based in greed (the king needed to pay off 
his considerable debts, and the knights were not only wealthy, they were also in 
tight with the papacy and popular with the people). After this massive arrest, the 
knights were so heinously tortured that some confessed to sins they had not 
committed. Later, when some Templars recanted, they were burned at the stake. 
Jacques De Molay was the last known Grand Master to have been so tortured. It 
is said that as he burned, he issued an invitation to both Philip and Pope Clement 
V to join him within a year. Accordingly, both men died within one year (this, 
and the 13th member of the Last Supper probably combined somewhere along 
the line to form yet another superstition, which says that the 13th guest at a 
dinner party will die within a year). All of this resulted in Friday the 13th being 
declared an evil day, one to be mindful of, and even now, millions of people 
actually stay home on Friday the 13th. 

Friday’s association with the 13th and negativity in general was cemented by a 


variety of links. Public hangings were usually conducted on Fridays and carried 
out at structures consisting of (reportedly) 13 stairs. Eve’s offer of an apple to 
Adam, the Great Flood, and the crucifixion of Jesus are all purported to have 
occurred on a Friday. 

In marked contrast, the ancient Egyptians revered and respected the number 
13. To them, this number was holy and referred to eternity. The Egyptians 
believed that ascension involved a ladder to Heaven that consisted of 13 rungs; 
this being the final step taken in order to reach immortality, which, of course, 
was much desired and therefore worth the work required to get there. This last 
view is the most reflective of my own feelings about the essence of the number 
13: its presence indicates the need to settle one’s dues, no matter how difficult, 
before that final step up the ladder can be taken. This is an almost-perfect 
example of finding the positive in the negative. By clearing old debt, we are able 
to move on and up and into spiritual cleanliness, rebirth, and enlightenment. 

This karma is a welcome explanation for those age-old questions asked by 
millions of people on a daily basis: “Why is this happening to me?” or “What 
did I do to deserve this?” Knowing that you are clearing your slate and preparing 
for a fresh start somehow makes it easier to bear. And keep in mind that all 
things pass; this should make the repayment or atonement period easier to get 
through—not much, perhaps, but a little. It’s like being in a long, dark tunnel for 
a long, dark time and suddenly seeing a light in the distance. The light is hope 
and an indication that there is an end to any bleak situation you may find 
yourself in. It is also the motivation to keep you moving, for it is a given that by 
placing one foot in front of the other, you will reach the light. It’s inevitable. Just 
keep going. 

It was hard for me to accept the reality of my own karmic debt when I 
recognized and accepted that my Daily and Domestic Names, Lifepath sub 
number, and Extended Connection numbers had more than a few 13s strewn 
about (Heather A. Lagan is composed of 13 letters, my first two names are 
composed of 13 letters, my social security number totals to 13, and my 
childhood address of 4405 totals to 13), but this realization also began to shed 
light on the possible answers as to why my life was the way it was—and what I 
could do to fix it, but it was a slow process. 


Over the years, I had found myself repeatedly stuck in very destructive 
situations and relationships until I slowly began to isolate and recognize patterns, 
or cycles. And I do mean slowly, but once I opened the door, the light of 
understanding gradually illuminated my spirit. I have fairly recently passed the 
half-century mark, and it is only now, after many years of reading, researching, 
and listening to others and just being quiet within myself, that I can say I am 
beginning to truly understand the infinite connections between all things: actions 
and reactions, causes and effects, and the Law of the Universe that binds all 
things and people together and counts all of its infinitesimal parts as 
indispensable to the whole. A section of this law decrees that whatever ye sow, 
ye shall reap, and that is what karma is all about. 

The term karma (which totals to 10/1, or Original Force) comes from Sanskrit 
and means “to do.” To me, karma feels like seeds that are planted and almost 
forgotten until some time later, when they seem to grow overnight. Depending 
on what is planted, the results will be positive or negative, as in what you plant 
will grow, what you plan is known (the idea is as bad as the deed ... even 
seriously considering having an affair creates almost the same karma as having 
one), and everything you do or say comes back to you eventually—except the 
really bad things come back quicker, even in this lifetime. Look at O. J.: his deed 
was done in this lifetime and karma bit him almost instantly. 

Buddhists believe that karma is continual and is carried over from past lives 
and simultaneously created in current ones and comes in positive and negative 
forms. While we obviously have no control over debt already accrued, we most 
certainly do have control over karma that we create in this lifetime, at least as 
adults. Since all experiences originate in a Cosmic classroom of sorts and we are 
all students, we will experience failure, but that does not mean we quit school: 
we simply repeat the course (or experience) and pay attention this time. All 
anyone really needs to do, whether in class or trying to create good karma, is to 
make the effort, to at least try to be as honest as one can be at any given moment 
and to try to do whatever is at hand the right way. That is the key ... to try. 
Being successful is not as important as making a genuine effort. Acknowledging 
and accepting that all experiences are but lessons seems to relieve some of the 
tension we may feel when stuck hanging upside down on the metaphorical roller 


coaster of life—especially when it is temporarily stalled. 

As a matter of interest, here are a few name energies carrying the negative 13 
vibe: Lizzie Borden, Napoleon Bonaparte, Andrew Cunanan (responsible for the 
deaths of 5 people, most notably Gianni Versace on July 15 [7+6=13], 1997), 
and Phil Spector, the once-great songwriter who was indicted (on November 20, 
2003: add the 11th month to the 2 and you have 13) in the murder of actress 
Lana Clarkson. Twice tried, he was finally found guilty of second-degree 
murder. 

On the other hand, Thomas Edison must have amassed some pretty good 
karma; he brought light to our darkness. Franklin Delano Roosevelt must have as 
well—not only did he bring hope back to his people, he is also responsible for 
the oft-repeated phrase “the only thing we have to fear is fear itself” (First 
Inaugural Address, March 4, 1933). 


Master Numbers 

Master Numbers are the only combination of digits that are not added together. 
If the numbers 1 through 9 theoretically represent grade and high school, then 
Master Numbers represent college and university. Master Numbers that carry the 
most weight will appear as Whole, Total, Daily, or Lifepath numbers, and the 
more in one name, the stronger the potential for accessing and using this 
elevated energy. Lesser Masters can also be found sitting side by side in the 
content of a name, an address, or a phone number, in which case they should 
also be taken into account when analyzing the energy. For example, any name 
that holds double C, G, S, or L values will show double 3 values and can 
indicate subtle connections to the Master 33 energy. For example, my sister 
Claudia has CL in her main name, and she does indeed illustrate the qualities of 
Master Sacrifice—she will place others’ interests and concerns over her own, 
has a great big heart, and is giving and forgiving, nurturing, and nonjudgmental. 
This rule of thumb will hold true for any numbers that repeat themselves this 
way—their character will reflect a lesser version of the Master Number 
represented. 

Master Numbers are unique. The numbers 11, 22, 33, 44, and so on offer to 
take us to a much higher place of learning and participation, or to a much lower 


place of destruction and malfeasance: such is the power held within. 

These double-digit, double-energy numbers are highly developed vibrations 
that carry extraordinary potential for achievement and legacy (which is only 
overshadowed by the knowledge that the flip side of the Master Numbers is also 
extraordinary, but in an extremely negative way). To fully develop, or “come 
into,” the full power of a Master, a person would generally require time, 
experience, and maturity before being equipped to handle such high voltage in a 
productive and positive way (most step into their power as middle-aged adults, 
and some never do). Students of the Masters are grown people who have 
experienced much of what life has to offer, or has thrown at them, including 
pain, loss, and sorrow; it is only after having direct knowledge of the negatives 
that the positives are truly appreciated and respected. Masters will be prone to 
meditating, practicing divination, investigating metaphysical subjects, attending 
spiritual meetings, and/or altering their lifestyles in accordance with their 
spiritual awakenings and pursuits. 

Of course, mortal beings cannot consistently operate at such high-vibration 
levels for too long, and sometimes, this energy is completely denied and 
submerged by the name holder (which is often the time this energy will turn, like 
sour milk, and become the exact opposite energy from that which was intended). 
In either case, the 11 can and will revert to the softer 2, the 22 will revert to the 
grounded 4, and the 33 will mellow into the loving 6. Although Masters run 
from 11 to 99, their occurrence is practically non-existent above the number 44 
(as in a Whole or Total Name Number). I have only come across a few 44s and 
55s in all my years of calculating names, and if I ever see anything higher, I 
would probably spend the next few hours trying to find a mistake in addition that 
doesn’t exist. In other words, chances are slim to none that you will ever come 
across, for example, a 77 as a final sub or as a Total, Daily, or Whole Name 
Number. 


Master Number 11: Intuitive Imager 

The positive 11 radiates a silent and introspective magnetism that tends to attract 
others. Ruled by a highly developed intuitive mind and psychic introspection, 
the Master 11 is very aware and sensitive, and is as prone to daydreaming as 


they are to actualizing. Known as the visionary, the 11 has within the power to 
manifest, that is, to focus upon that which they desire until it becomes reality, 
often without realizing they have done so. In fact, the 11 lives in theory—they 
are not overly concerned with materialism or worldly gain, which can be a bit of 
a hindrance in this goal-oriented society. They are highly artistic and imaginative 
and can use these talents to create impressive works of art that can involve paint, 
words, musical notes, or even illusive and fascinating sleight-of-hand displays. 

All of these qualities are perfectly illustrated in the name of Harry Houdini. He 
was a double 11, which means Harry and Houdini both add up individually to 11 
and combine to form the Master Architect 22, an energy that, essentially, takes 
the visionary magick of the Master Psychic 11 and makes it real, in a manner of 
speaking. In fact, Houdini’s real name was Weisz, which also totals to Master 
22. Despite a name adaptation, he still carried the same energy he was born with. 
(Fittingly enough, Harry died on Halloween, 1926, the night when the “veils” 
between the living and the dead are rumored to be their thinnest. He did promise 
his wife that he would, if he could, get a message to her from the other side, 
which never happened, or perhaps Mrs. Houdini chose to keep it to herself.) 
Harry created something out of nothing; he tricked the mind and the eye and did 
it with grace and mystery. Perhaps his energies and story may give you an idea 
of the keys the Master 11 holds and some of the secret places those keys may 
unlock. 

The talents of the Master 11 are not limited to creation in the artistic sense: 
here also is the inventor, the scientist, the original thinker in any field of 
endeavor. Hence, the Master 11 is the one who thinks or images in an unusual or 
unique way, and this can take the form of the scholar, the scientist and the 
philosopher, the teacher, the lawyer, the judge, the priest, the doctor, the spiritual 
motivator, or just the daydreamer. These traits can become so developed that the 
Master 11 can almost inadvertently attract global attention, which is to say some 
will, and have, become venerated leaders upon the worldly stage. 

To offer a more succinct profile of an 11 you may well recognize as someone 
you know, here are some of an illuminated 11’s main characteristics. Master 11, 
when in high operation, will be very approachable, friendly, warm, genuine, and 
welcoming, although one may sense a bit of mystery around them (and if they 


are pursuing an odd or unusual subject or lifestyle, they can be downright 
mesmerizing). Master 11 adapts well to any situation they are dropped into and 
are able to adjust their behavior to match the behavior of others. A true 11 is 
always creative in some form or another: they will be painters, writers, actors, 
inventors, singers, and often leaders in some form within their community. 
Sensitive and romantic, the 11 longs for love, not only for themselves, but also 
for the world. They are often employed in a healing or counseling field, and a 
great many of them are involved in the fields, of paranormal, holistic, and 
metaphysical arts. 

The number 11 Major Arcana card is Justice, which is all about fair play and 
doing the right thing, both on the Earth plane and on the spiritual plane. It is 
balance achieved through mediation and meditation, and its premise is based on 
the lack of illusion or that which is hidden. It is the exposition of truth, and that 
is what a genuine 11 is all about—justice and truth. (It is also what Harry 
Houdini wished to accomplish: belief in the truth of what the eye sees.) 

When the 11 is low on energy, it will function as a 2, which is gentle, loving, 
domestic, and kind. As the 2, it will be surrounded by loyal friends and maintain 
a variety of interests and connections through business or art. 

The drawback to the highly charged, activated, or special numbers are their 
negative sides. If I have managed to convey the strength of the number 11, it 
should come as no surprise that such power, used without respect or 
understanding or even with deliberate maliciousness, can produce atrocious and 
malevolent results. Here is the charming psychopath who masks his intent with 
smooth grace and hideous pretense. The beauty and purity of the positive 11 is 
the scale by which the ugliness and impurity of the negative 11 is weighed. 
Unfortunately, although this is true for all numbers, it is most especially true for 
the stronger Masters. Since everything has an equal and opposite side and the 
measure of that power is reflected by its original, the intensity of the positive 
energies will be equal to the intensity of the negative energies. 

If you are involved in any way with an 11 and are picking up very wrong 
vibes, red flags are waving furiously, and your intuition is screaming at you, in 
all seriousness, run—don’t walk—to the nearest exit. These energies are bad 
news and, depending on how advanced, can range from just plain weird to 


downright dangerous. To tie this up with a not-so-pretty bow, here are but a few 
name energies that total to a negative 11: Genghis Khan, Aileen Wuornos (the 
first female serial killer as documented in the film Monster), Jack the Ripper, 
Karla Homolka, and Charles Manson. 

The 11 can also manifest in a variety of eerie, connective ways. Sometimes the 
energy carries an untimely end (Marilyn Monroe, James Dean, Marvin Gaye) or 
creates an atmosphere of surreal mystery (Alfred Hitchcock) or startling 
discovery (Einstein). It is the number of celluloid magick and knowledge as 
reflected in the names Michael Moore, Sharon Stone, and George Clooney, to 
name but a few. 

It is also the number of combined forces. Imagine the physical form or body 
aligning with an unseen but powerful belief or desire. All of the following 11 
Masters “joined” with their beliefs in such strong ways that they actually became 
part of our history: George Washington was the first President of the United 
States; Florence Nightingale became the first nurse to actually tend to the 
wounded British soldiers during the Crimean War (1854-56); Mother Teresa 
gave her life to Love (or God as some people preferred to call it), opened the 
first Home for the Dying (Hospice) in Calcutta, and was awarded the Nobel 
Peace Prize in 1979; Margaret Hilda Thatcher became the first woman Prime 
Minister of the United Kingdom; Martin Luther King Jr. became the youngest 
man to ever receive the Nobel Peace Prize (1964) and became the figurehead of 
all those who “have a dream” and often conversed with John Fitzgerald 
Kennedy, who became the first Catholic president and the youngest (at the time) 
president ever elected to office. He is also the author of a famous saying: “Ask 
not what your country can do for you, ask what you can do for your country.” As 
mentioned, there is a certain mystique and myth attached to the 11 energy, and 
these people illustrate and honor it quite well. 


Multi 11 Values 

Anyone who boasts a number of Master 11 values in their name often has a 
splendid imagination, can be viewed as a visionary, and is often involved in 
spiritual or metaphysical pursuits. However, the presence of numerous 11s can 
also point to someone who needs to acknowledge and incorporate the unusual 
leanings of the 11 into their daily lives. Experimentation in artistic expression, 


dramatic writings, or paranormal topics is strongly suggested as a method 
helpful in focusing the “third eye,” which is part and parcel of learning to use the 
gifts of the 11. 

On the other hand, if the multi 11 in question is overly involved with the 
esoteric world, it could be that basic functions and responsibilities are ignored 
and more attention needs to be paid to the realities of living. 


Lifepath for the Number 11 

(also see Lifepath Number 2) 

As the first Master Number, this Lifepath is all about honoring the intuition 
and seeking and absorbing all manner of esoteric knowledge as required to 
function at a higher level of spirituality. Ever the enthusiast, especially about the 
mysteries of life, this number energy is very empathic, idealistic, romantic, and 
nurturing, and is perfectly suited to teaching and inspiring others. This is, in fact, 
its direction—to leave some manner of an imprint on the psyche of man, even in 
a small way. The Master 11 who chooses to follow their intuitive leanings will 
lead anything but a normal life, as indicated in the examples given above. 
Although their contributions may not be quite as large, they will be valued, 
noticed, and treasured nonetheless. 


Challenges for the Number 11 

This vibration is very susceptible to the world of the imagination and the 
arcane and can easily become withdrawn and separated from society, family, and 
friends. Although its natural propensity is to lead and educate, its deep thoughts 
can leave it vulnerable to anything that offers sensory stimulation or a temporary 
escape from the heaviness of this reality. The 11 must learn to accept (and 
release) their often negative experiences of youth as necessary developments to 
the inner self and to step into their roles as spiritual beings and leaders in order 
to successfully complete their work on this earth plane. 


Master Number 22: The Builder 

This Master is the elder sibling to the 11; however, where the 11 is the prophetic 
dreamer and idealistic sensitive who uses their gift of words to inspire and lead, 
the 22 has the motivation to take the dreams, visions, and words of the 11 and 
transpose them into objects that one can touch, see, and relate to as material 


objects. This energy not only lives by the divine laws, they are able to work 
within those laws to create material legacies and amass incredible wealth and 
possessions here on this Earth plane. While the 11 is content to work from their 
head (read imagination) and heart (read emotions, psychic impressions, and 
intuition), the 22 works with their intellect, communication, and building skills. 
Their need to produce tangible results is the strongest motivator for this electric 
force, and it will reach out to the people in a large way—seeking to touch as 
many as possible with its undertakings. 

The positive 22 will create homes for the less fortunate, build centers for the 
elderly and fashion extensions for hospitals, begin charities, and so on. The 
desire to aid is genuine, as is the hope of connecting with humanity at a core 
level. While I may be focusing on actual buildings to illustrate the central feeling 
of the 22, they can also accomplish the expansion of mass awareness through 
song, the written word, dramatic presentations, films, and a myriad of other 
outlets. The doctor who pioneers the latest medical breakthrough, the lawyer 
who fights for the underdog, and the volunteer who collects donations for the 
less fortunate or homeless are all likely to be under the influence of the 22. 
Whether the 22 is found running around in a business suit, riding shotgun in a 
beat-up pickup, or clutching a battered briefcase to their ripped sweatshirt, make 
no mistake, the developed and dedicated 22 is not generally concerned with how 
it gets done, just that it gets done. If they do find themselves wearing an 
expensive get-up, driving a Lexus, and sprouting a variety of technical gadgets 
from their various body parts, rest assured, those things mean exactly nothing to 
the 22. They are a means to an end. At home, a 22 might wear jeans and a T- 
shirt and meditate by the fireplace or the open window (as with all Masters, the 
22 has downtimes and functions as a grounded and responsible 4 when not 
“on”). After meditation, the 22/4 is very likely to go pull some weeds, take out 
the garbage, do the laundry, scrub the toilet, and vacuum the hairballs from 
under the couch. 

The character of the positive 22 is cheerful, progressive, outgoing, and open- 
minded. This energy is willing to try anything if the outcome looks at all helpful 
to others. Charming, intelligent, and spiritually cultured, the 22 is highly social 
and adept at connecting with “higher ups,” yet in an unobtrusive and humble 


way. As mentioned, the 22 will likely become wealthy if they stay on the straight 
and narrow, but risks losing it all should they it allow themselves to be 
sidetracked down a dark and twisting alley. 

There is one very important warning attached to the 22. As they hold the 
power to gain and collect massive amounts of money, power, prestige, and 
material possessions, it is fairly obvious that a very real possibility is the threat 
for slip-sliding down the slope of ego and greed and losing their grip on the 
divine laws and light they are living by. In this worst case scenario, the wealth 
and power that has been attained can lead to intense boredom and inspire a 
craving, a search for more. More excitement, more something. When one has 
everything or can buy anything (or anyone) the heart desires, one becomes 
susceptible to the “I am untouchable” syndrome. The laws are forgotten and the 
light goes out. Moral and ethical misbehavior or lack of judgment is the principal 
caveat attached to the errant 22. Essentially, whatever the reason might be, the 
22 can lose their way or balance and, sometimes, their life. 

One major example of such an apparent loss of balance is characterized by the 
unfortunate case of Michael Jackson. Prior to his untimely death in 2009 (which 
totals to an 11, by the way), Jackson experienced the results of intense Master 22 
energies when allegations were made (but never proven) that fit in with the 
above warning. 

Mr. Jackson came into this life on the 11th day of August, 1958, carrying a 
golden gift (or some would say heavy load) from Universe: his Total Name 
Number is a Master 55, which refers to Fairness and Judgment. His Daily Name 
is a double 22, which totals to a Master 44; it carries the theme and responsibility 
of being or becoming a Master Healer, which he most definitely had the ability 
to do through his music. However, the flip sides of all of these Master Numbers 
can create massive meltdowns and very negative consequences. 

One cannot dismiss history or the presence of these powerful numerical 
repetitions and their messages, positive or not. The numbers are incapable of 
lying. And the fact of the matter is that Michael Jackson’s life and career were 
negatively impacted by allegations of immoral conduct, which is an 
unambiguous example of the exact warnings attached to the powerful 22. His 
untimely passing also fits in with the earth-shaking vibrations of the flip side of 


the Master 44—two side-by-side foundational 4 values can and will create 
massive earthquakes that are capable of destroying careers, reputations, and even 
lives. 

While there are obviously darker shades to all Master Numbers, the number 22 
can be the light shining in the darkness as well: Moses and Buddha both total to 
Master 22. 

An interesting conclusion to the Tarot connection is that the cards depicting 
major life events (Major Arcana) common to mankind number 22, which is 
reduced to the number 4—the base or foundation for all of mankind to build 
upon. So while the message of the 22 Major Arcana is to build and create, it also 
points out the need to anchor yourself very securely on the way up and to never 
forget to check the quality of your foundations. 


Multi 22 Values 

A read that shows several Master 22 values is screaming for the realization of 
a dream—it points to a potent level of achievement that is perhaps dormant in 
the name holder. Master 22 has the ability to create large legacies, to build 
empires, to make a big difference. The message of multiple 22 energies is to go 
after the dream—it can become reality. 

On the negative side, the presence of multi 22 values can also be indicative of 
the potential breach of ethics that was mentioned earlier—this person may need 
to come down off their pedestal (or be knocked off) before they will understand 
that power does not excuse bad behavior. 


Lifepath for the Master Number 22 

(also see Lifepath Number 4) 

The Master Number 22 Lifepath points to all roads of manifestation: this 
number can move the world of imagination into the tangible world of reality. 
Focus will fall on large projects or important advancements that will tend to 
benefit larger groups of people or even the Earth itself. The 22 is capable of 
amassing material wealth and of rising to almost meteoric heights and should 
pursue its dreams with complete devotion and even controlled abandon. 


Challenges for the Master Number 22 
This Master is called to be aware of excesses. Having too much of everything 


can lead to boredom and, thus, a need for stimulation. Moral and ethical 
guideposts are to be observed and obeyed. If they are ignored, the 22 will crash 
from the heights of that which it has built, often with catastrophic results. 


Master Number 33: The Leader 

While you will come across the occasional 33, they are relatively atypical and 
are often undeveloped. A positive 33 is completely concerned with activities that 
connect in some way to love. It is the highest level of the love vibration and 
joins the spiritualist, the monk, and the priest: one who serves many. It is the 
“teacher of teachers” and is connected to the 6, which is ruled by Venus, the 
planet of love. The two 3s combined refer to the activity and thoughts of one that 
influences the activity and thoughts of many. Here we have one voice, one 
person, who is the faith-filled leader of a flock, in whatever form this may take. 
This leader must make the required sacrifices of the traditional home and family: 
the people are their focus, their love, their family, and their world. They are 
private, yes, but their main reason for being is to help others stand in the light of 
love. They live for God and spirit and to spread the word of faith and positive 
action and thought. Should you be fortunate enough to know a positive 33, you 
will find they are selfless and giving, honest to a fault, and display the courage 
of the lion, yet without the roar and scary teeth. The 33 will be difficult to know 
on a casual, personal level (unless they are functioning as their sub energy of 
nurturing 6), as there is absolutely nothing casual about them and they are for the 
masses, not for the mundane or meaningless or trivial. These are energies that 
will be honored and respected: genuine revolutionaries who speak an age-old 
truth. 

Some negative possibilities for the 33 include taking on too much worldly 
responsibility and therefore feeling burdened to the point of becoming depressed 
and ineffective. The 33’s goal is to deliver their gift to humanity, and their 
greatest fear is the inability to either carry this weight or to complete the delivery 
of said gifts. 

Another negative attached to the 33 is obviously manifested in spiritual 
leaders who are not what or who they appear to be, or those who become 
insufferable martyrs for their cause. At the other end of the scale, here follows a 


perfect example of the inherent sacrifice present in the mission of a true Master 
33: religion aside, Jesus was a teacher and messenger of pure love and faith who 
was put to death, or sacrificed for and by the people, at the age of 33. 

As a force alone, the 33 is impressive. Take the scope of the World Wide 
Web, which totals to Master 33 (Master 22+7+4=33): this computer grid does 
indeed deliver a gift to the world, to the masses. That said, it also shows the 
potential for intensely negative energies that are particular to Master Numbers. 
Its damaging, dangerous, and ugly side is separating people from their money, 
children from their parents, and social contact from many lives (consider that its 
Cornerstone energies are WWW or 666). It is as though this gift holds within a 
sacrifice of ethics, safety, and basic goodness, but it is the hand of the user that 
defines the path of the knife. 


Lifepath of the Master Number 33 

(also See Lifepath Number 6) 

Here we are getting into a more direct manifestation of the spiritual Lifepath— 
someone with this energy will often find themselves feeling apart from others in 
that they are on a different level of development. They can feel alone, 
segregated, and misunderstood. Often seen as a Master Teacher, the fully 
developed 33 will usually be called upon to sacrifice a personal life (spouse, 
children, home of their own) in order to fulfill their destiny as a teacher of 
spiritual truths and of unconditional love, although they will likely travel in 
order to share their knowledge; they will also be quite alone. Someone who does 
not know a 33 personally may mistakenly label them as distant and even 
arrogant. 


Challenges for the Master Number 33 

The challenge for the Master 33 involves a deep insecurity that is never shared 
with others. As they are often placed in positions of reverence or supreme 
respect, any perceived personal failings will be kept to themselves. These inner 
emotions can easily lead to a sense of despondency and reliance on substances 
that can become addictive. The pure 33 must learn to transcend their own 
personal desires and lifestyles in order to learn and teach their lesson of 
unconditional love. 


Multi 33 Values 


Anything above Master 33 is relatively rare, and several in one chart is rarer 
still. If this is the case, the name holder is likely to be fairly lonely in that the 
frequency of the Master Numbers is elevated above the regular, or normal, 
number scale. Anyone under its influence can find interacting with others in an 
intimate and personal way quite challenging. After all, the 33 is more concerned 
with the bigger picture than with the individual components. If several 33 
Masters are indicated and the bearer is a developed spirit, then the potentialities 
here are limitless; this is someone who could easily impact the world in some 
way. 


Master Number 44: The Healer 

This Master could be compared to the Giant Doctor in the Sky. It is the Master 
Healer/Therapist, the one who, ideally, rights all the wrongs within the human 
race, or the spirit body of mankind. This energy would have the ability to affect 
the mental and psychological states of massive amounts of people. The manner 
in which this would be accomplished would vary—it could be through words, 
medicine, actions—the list is endless and open to the imagination. The point 
here is that the positive 44 would be able to reach out on a fundamental, base 
level to the emotional core of society and effect positive change—a Healer who 
offers therapy to the masses. As we all know, such a leader is a rare find, indeed. 
Hopefully, we won’t destroy such energy when the positive 44 does make an 
appearance. (Or it won’t destroy itself.) 

Along the same vein, a negative 44 would not be an energy anyone would 
enjoy being associated with. The shaking of the foundations of the two 4s would 
create chaos—a treacherous and destructive energy that would undermine a 
basic belief system and result in a collapse of hope. The negative 44 would 
inevitably stumble and fall, which, of course, would feel like an earthquake in 
the world of the 44 in question and in the worlds of those who admire him or 
her. The fall of a potential Leader and Healer would obviously cause 
considerable disillusionment among the people, as well. (See Master 22, Michael 
Jackson: his double 22s total to Master 44.) 


Master 55: The Genius 
This energy is beyond intelligent. It is the perfect blend of fair judgment and 


authority. Justice and genius. Intellectus perfectus. This energy rides along the 
crest of changes and fame, but it is also the balanced and neutral number 5 
doubled, which suggests a world of ideas and intellect that are transformed into 
their most positive and beneficial forms for mankind. Ideally, of course. One of 
the very few Master 55 energies I have come across is Queen Elizabeth 
(22+33=55). Another is Michael Joseph Jackson. 


Master 66: Crazy Love 

Fecund and fertile, this Master unites all aspects of creation into one pure 
energy. It is like a laser beam of creativity—under its rays sprout pregnant 
women, trees heavy with fruit, growth and greenery, and massive brainstorms 
and epiphanies. This feels like true love and creation gone wild but in an 
organized, focused manner. 


Master 77: Cosmic Consciousness 

Perfect union of logic and metaphysical truths is the realm of the Master 77 and 
results in complete balance in the brain and in the consciousness. In fact, some 
would call this essence the Divine consciousness: pure and clean thought and 
pure and clean manifestation of those thoughts. This is the brain of all things 
operating in perfect harmony. 


Master 88: Success 

This is the absolutely unpolluted blend of true humility with pure, raw power. 
This is the lemniscate (see number 8), the yin/yang, the infinity symbol; it is the 
2 circles of the 8 matching one another to 0 degrees of difference. Master 88 is 
absolute universal understanding and perfect balance in all things. 


Master 99: Fulfillment 

I am convinced that this one would only be encountered upon reaching the other 
side. This number is the only one of the Masters that reduces back to its form 
number (9+9=18=9) and carries energies and knowledge that I believe we can 
only access once we have left this Earth plane. Fulfillment, then, only comes 
when one leaves, or is about to leave, this plane of existence. One would have to 
be dead, or close enough to knock on its door, to truly be able to say, but I have 
heard and seen enough to know that folks who know and accept that they are 


dying are somehow at peace and even eager to get going. Funny, but there you 
have it. What waits for you and me, to my way of thinking, is complete truth, 
unlimited knowledge, and clarity so fine, so delicate that it feels as though it 
could shatter with a whisper. It is something that you, dear reader, may have 
already experienced, albeit perhaps only occasionally. 

Everyone has moments of sudden understanding, sudden epiphanies; weird 
moments of clear knowledge. Remember an instant when something clicked into 
place, when you suddenly “got it”? Can you remember that feeling? That sheer 
understanding, that split-second flash of recognition is the element of which I 
speak: the Truth. In the case of the Master 99 it is ongoing and perpetual. The 
truth revealed, one degree at a time, yet simultaneously. Each truth immediately 
becomes part of your spirit, which absorbs and expands until all facets of truth 
are exposed and assimilated. 


... originality exists in every individual because each of us differs from the 
others. We are all primary numbers divisible only by ourselves ... 
—Jean Guitton (1901-1999) 


[contents] 


four 


The Letters 


= ach letter of our twenty-six-letter alphabet, in its uppercase form, is a 
character unto itself. Each reveals something about itself simply by its 
appearance, or the way it stands and its shape. If you think of the letters as made 
up of individual stick figures or symbolic shapes and look at each letter with an 
open eye, you will uncover another layer in the mystery, another layer to the 
onion. The letter H, for example, always looked like a ladder (minus a few 
rungs) to me. But if you stack a few of these on top of each other ... there it is! 
And, indeed, its primary meaning is exactly that: a ladder that one can choose to 
climb up or down, and up is preferable. 

Much like reading the symbols on tarot cards, whichever way you choose to 
relate to a letter or number is the right way for you and will stick in your mind, 
which will, in turn, assist you in memorizing meanings. So if the O reminds you 
of the Sun, so be it. All that matters is that it works for you. 

The following section contains the meanings of the letters and discusses the 
specific characteristics of each symbol. Special attention should be paid to the 
letters that come up as your Cornerstone(s), for they will carry stronger 
meanings for each particular name. So if your name is Sharon, the S will be a 
strong influence over the entire name. If, on the other hand, your name is Sasha, 
the S will double in intensity due to the Cornerstone and an additional S energy. 
If your name is Sharon Sasha Samson, the S will coil around your energy like a 
snake. Which is not necessarily a bad thing; it depends on how you choose to use 
this overload of S energy. It is always a personal decision. 

Also, like anything else, everything has a light and a dark side, which I do not 
shy away from describing. You will know which meanings are yours and which 
are not. 


Words are alive. Cut them and they bleed... 
—Ralph Waldo Emerson (1803—1882) 


A (Value of 1): The Alone Survivor 


Obviously, A is the first letter of the alphabet and shares much of the same 
qualities as the number 1, which is also its value. Traditional meanings of the 
letter A point to beginners, go-getters, loners, and the pioneering, “Original 
Force” from which all else emanates. It represents the first breath, the first 
action, the first word. The A is very much about the self, or ego, and it is also 
very much Alone. 

In ancient symbolism, the A represents the pointed phallus: it is creation and 
self-survival in its purest form. Sometimes the A personality will come across as 
arrogant, self-absorbed, aggressive, ostentatious, and egocentric, yet their 
primary function is to survive and prevail, which can, in turn, create a short 
temper and ignorance on many levels. This limitation can manifest as frustration 
or anger, a lack of social skills and tact, and a variety of projects begun and left 
unfinished. The A is generally an energy that expects and looks for immediate 
results. Their emotional level is not well developed, as they do not focus on 
feelings, but rather on activities, investigations, accomplishments, and success. 
This does not mean that the A does not feel, simply that they are very self- 
contained and controlled. Emotions are given very little consideration in their 
pursuit for advancement; the A is, after all, at the starter’s gate, so to speak (A 
and number 1 both hold first place in their respective energy fields). Neither of 
these starter energies are familiar with (theoretically) mingling and blending 
with other energies in a productive and positive way, so the consequent lack of 
social and interactive ability is almost to be expected. However, it is easy 
enough to remedy the situation for those of us who sport a few A energies—all it 
takes is a little bit of focus and a moment of thought before opening the mouth or 
taking action. 

This is a strong vibration and holds a deep reservoir of endurance, 
perseverance, and tenacity; the A is the most likely of all letters to keep on 
keeping on. They are also very instinctual; they listen to that voice from inside 
as it guides the survival, but open acknowledgement of the mystery of the 
intuition is not likely to be made. 

In worst case scenarios, the A can also be read as sheer force, as in an abuse of 
power or control. Since the A is such a strong force on its own, people who have 
high levels of this energy in their names can be found at either end of the 


spectrum: as the giver or the receiver. In other words, someone with a few As in 
their name could just as easily be the Abused as the Abuser. No other letter in 
the alphabet has this potential, and it is simply due to the A forming the initial 
entry point for all the energy to follow: the A blasts open the path, therefore its 
potential for over-the-top force is emphasized. 

In best case scenarios, the A will represent someone who is driven, focused, 
even-natured, progressive both materially and spiritually, open to new ideas, and 
admirable in their desire to succeed. 


Traditional Descriptions 

Typical descriptions of an average A energy include original, ambitious, 
determined, focused, driven, creative, progressive, energetic, and curious. 
Extreme 1 energy can create personalities who are self-absorbed, unfeeling, 
tactless, vain, aggressive, abusive, cruel, critical, and proud. 


Cornerstones 
The following words all hold an Original Force in their first letter: Alphabet, 


Astrology, Air, Alive, Anger, Ancestor, Ambition, Aggression, Actor, Artist, 
and Atomic. 


As a Current Energy Phase 

This 1-year period involves new starts. These can manifest as winning a 
promotion, getting that job, starting a new and exciting project, going back to 
school or simply coming into a strong sense of identity and knowledge of what is 
wanted or required in life. This is not an emotional beginning; rather it is a 
logical, practical, or educational one. This may also be a year to be very aware of 
whom or what one becomes involved with as these connections may have 
negative kickbacks, especially if the intuition is ignored. 


B (Value of 2): Blending and Bonding 

B refers to the place of birth, or of a hidden place where unseen energies bubble 
—unspoken words, thoughts, ideas, plans. It is a place of germination and 
gestation and, ultimately, expulsion. A perfect example of this would be the 
brain. An idea materializes, solidifies into a plan and manifests as action. 
(Someone decides to build a new home. The idea solidifies into a drawing on 
paper, which in turn is handed to the architect and, finally, the builder. A thought 
has led to the construction of something we can touch and perceive as real.) The 
B also points to balance: as above, so below. (The house has to be balanced and 
its numbers correct; if the degrees or angles are off by just the slightest amount, 
it could very easily collapse.) Like the façade of a house, Bs tend to present a 
particular front—one is not quite sure what is really going on within the 
building, or in the pregnant lady’s belly (again a process where numbers form 
the essence of creation as cells split and multiply again and again until there are 
billions of them that bond and blossom until a baby is fully formed). 

The B appears calm, peaceful, domestic, gentle, and warm. It is, appropriately, 
ruled by the number 2, which is duality: two sides or features to one object or 
subject. In this case, the inner versus the outer or the one versus the other. Since 
the average B’s tender and often frustrating emotions are held inside and require 
a tremendous amount of trust to share, regular outbursts can be expected, not 
necessarily of anger, although that would certainly occur should the B feel 
unappreciated, taken for granted or used. The B seeks blissful and blessed 
relationships, which can lead the blind B into extremely intense and even 


obsessive relationships. Impulsiveness can intervene or interfere in an otherwise 
serene lifestyle. In other words, the B is somewhat reticent by nature, so the 
chances of the dam breaking or being breeched is not inconceivable. 

Anyone who carries the B as a Comerstone must learn to express emotional 
truths and to voice opinions, a difficult lesson because the B is primarily the 
peacemaker and will therefore hesitate to introduce elements that can result in 
conflict or tension. The B will often put up with things just to avoid 
confrontation, which will come anyway. Once the patience of the B has been 
tested to the limit, be prepared to run because an explosive B is not a pretty 
sight. But because the B is primarily about balance and bonding, these 
explosions pass quickly. Once the emotions are expressed and the anger is out, 
the B will settle back down into the role of the peacemaker. 


Traditional Descriptions 
Typical descriptions of the B include domestic, even-natured, soft-spoken, 


helpful, concerned, faithful, loyal, and loving. Less positive traits appear as 
being secretive, withholding, uncommunicative, impulsive, explosive, and 


overly emotional/needy. 


Cornerstones 
The following words all show an inner or hidden quality: Baby, Body, Belief, 
Biology, and Bubble, or an explosion outward like Birth, Boom, Bang, Bomb, 


and Burp. 


As a Current Energy Phase 

The realm of relationships is highlighted during this two-year period, although 
the B energy can refer to both unions and separations. The main point is the 
duality; the B either is no longer alone or is once again alone. This can manifest 
as marriage, divorce, forming business partnerships, joining clubs—anything 
that has to do with more than one person and is new to the Lifepath. 


C (Value of 3): Communication in All Its Forms 

Ah, the open mouth! Among many other qualities or characteristics, the prime 
traditional meaning for the C is communication in all its forms, the most obvious 
and readily available being the mouth. The C is a great big open mouth and is 
the creator of all forms of communication, be that words issuing forth, or 
creation issuing forth in the form of painting, song, sculpture, or dance— 
anything that expresses what lies within. The C is a giant conduit—for magick, 
entertainment, and activity and, since it is ruled by the ever-active number 3, the 
C tends to say what is on their mind (or tongue) without too much hesitation; 
therefore the C is known for its honesty or blunt manner of speaking. This 
character trait can easily offend others, which is puzzling to the C, as they truly 
believe that they are speaking the truth for the good of others. The brain and the 
mouth seem to be directly linked and sometimes operate without a filter—what 
is thought can be spoken almost as quickly. As the C is also highly creative, 
success may come through the pursuit of the combination of words and art. The 
C also responds instantly and naturally to anything of beauty and prefers to 
present themselves in the best light possible and to surround themselves with 
articles or energies containing and reflecting beauty and creativity as well. The 
beauty of cash and the power it holds is also among the C’s attractors, as it is the 
call to travel and to see (C) as much beauty as possible. 

The conversational C creates great teachers, parents, and community-oriented 
individuals. Some are memorable in that they take the art of communication, 
which can be translated via music, art, magick, drama, or entertainment of any 
kind to a whole new level: Criss Angel (illusionist), Edgar Cayce (prophet), John 
Cleese (actor), Julia Child (chef), and Confucius (Chinese philosopher) are but a 


few examples. 

The C untethered brings to mind the saying “loose lips sink ships,” which is 
my delicate way of saying that while the C is nothing if not brutally honest, they 
can also be prone to gossip. The C is like the child of the alphabet: they speak 
their truth and then run away to play. The C is innocent; they respond to 
gentleness, truth, and creativity, and they love all things that reflect this 
innocence and beauty. 

The C also likes to eat. It is, after all, an open mouth. 


Traditional Descriptions 
Typical descriptions attached to the C include communicative, creative, honest, 


even-natured, adaptable, active, and charming. More negative traits include the 
potential to be authoritarian, argumentative, blunt or rude, scattered, stubborn, 


and insensitive. 


Cornerstones 
The following words all follow the lines of Communication: Call, Chat, Cry, 
Chant, Choir, Criticism, Confess, Camera, and Computer. 


As a Current Energy Phase 

This will translate into a three-year period of creativity and communication and 
can take the shape of bringing new life into existence (a child, for example) or 
beginning a creative/intellectual project. Vocal sharing is highlighted; sometimes 
this is a warning against giving away too much of the self or talking too much. 
Some might join a choir, go back to school, begin journaling, or take painting 
lessons. This period is one of activity, creativity, community, and open 
communication. 


D (Value of 4): The Open or Closed Door 


The D is probably the most unyielding energy in the alphabet, springing from the 
fact that it is representative of a closed door. Its challenge is knowledge versus 
ignorance, and its dilemma is whether to open the door or leave it closed. The D 
needs to see to believe, but because it is ruled by the very firm and foundational 
number 4, it is also against the nature of the D to open up and thereby risk 
exposure to the unknown or uninvited. The desire does exist to see what lies on 
the other side, but it is difficult for the D to release itself from the essence of its 
being so the door often remains closed. It is not too hard to imagine a dim room 
beyond that door that would be gloomy, limited, and dull. The D needs to open 
its door, let the sunshine in, and break with routine. The D is intelligent but 
scientifically inclined, which would explain why they need to see, touch, and 
experience anything out of the norm before they will believe, and even then, the 
D will have countless reasonable explanations as to why this thing (whatever it 
may be) is not possible, or is not what it appears to be. Frustrating? Oh yes, the 
D certainly can be that. At the same time, the D has an admirable (if annoying) 
ability to discern the truths of opposing points of view; they are able to debate 
issues from different angles at the same time. The D’s keen sense of logic, 
honesty, methodical thought processes, and firm grip on reality gives them the 
honor of being able to see both sides at once and each as clearly. These qualities 
make the D, understandably, an excellent employee or manager/owner and the 
influence of the reliable, dependable, and hard-working 4 cements the deal. 

Due to its resistance to change in general, the D may also find it difficult to 


consult a Doctor when physical symptoms arise and may therefore suffer 
Disease, or niggling, ongoing heath issues, which are usually the result of 
unaddressed emotional issues (which is true for all people who suffer dis-ease; 
something in the life, past or present, has remained unchallenged for too long 
and has become physically toxic). 

The main message concerning the D is that its chief adversary is boredom. It 
must question its boundaries and explore outside its normally closed door and 
extricate itself, at least periodically, from the ho-hum routine and repetitiveness 
of a rather limited lifestyle and belief system. 

The D holds so many keys and yet rarely investigates which key opens which 
portal. The D’s very deep sense of limitation often keeps them stuck in one place 
—theoretically, physically, or both. Two or more Ds in a name reveals a strong 
element of immobility, which can keep the D from investigating anything other 
than their own interests, which is a great pity, as the only thing they are “closed” 
to is knowledge. As mentioned, the average D needs to see before they believe, 
but if they could see, they would believe. This is the challenge for the D: to 
remain ignorant of sights unseen, or to open up to significant revelations held in 
different “rooms,” or even in the expanse of the world lying right outside their 
own front doors. 

I must add here that some D people are perfectly happy living within a small 
and unchallenged world—they feel quite secure there. Any attempt to widen 
their horizons or drag them out of their safe place will meet with a resistance the 
likes of which you have never seen. Stubbornness is one of the D energy’s finest 
attributes, which, depending on the circumstances, can be a good thing or a bad 
thing. 


Traditional Descriptions 
Some traits of the D include being sensible, faithful, tenacious, practical, hard- 


working, dedicated, methodical, and honest. Negative sides of the D include 
being dishonest, stubborn, mean-spirited, obsessive, uninspired, inactive, 


pessimistic, restless, and bored. 


Cornerstones 

All of these words relate to the Doorways that separate one place or state from 
another and encompass two different sides or elements: Death, Divorce, Disease, 
Dream, Dungeon, Deep, Distant, Divide, Double, Devil, and Dumb. 


As a Current Energy Phase 

This four-year period holds the key to advancement and growth. Opportunities 
are presented, secrets are revealed, mysteries are afoot, and the norm is being 
challenged. During this time, the D has the opportunity to gain knowledge, try 
new things, and spread their wings. Alternately, the stubborn streak will 
intensify as the D digs in their heels and dogmatically resists and resents 
anything new, unique and/or spiritually oriented. This can also be, more 
mundanely, a period of hard work, a nose-to-the-grindstone type of energy that 
is laying the foundations for a business, a home, or even a relationship. 


E (Value of 5): Energy in All Its Forms 
While the D is one of the most immovable energies, the E is the most energetic. 
It is traditionally ruled by enthusiasm, and holds within a pure energy that is 


open to expansion. Its connection to energy is evident in the ratio of E=mc2; 


which is Einstein’s theory that matter and energy are really the same thing. It is 
also the mathematical basis for the first atomic bomb. The E’s ruler is number 5, 
which relates to freedom, communication, independence, authority, the senses, 
and change. If one looks at the actual construction of the E, it reaches forward 
with three limbs: the top arm represents the brain; the middle, the soul/heart; and 
the bottom, physical action. It is the most forward letter in the alphabet, meaning 
its energy centers on the future. The E personality is also impulsiveness at its 
finest, and they will often commit themselves completely and entirely to various 
(and perhaps questionable) causes, sometimes without sufficient forethought or 
consideration. They are receptive to all and, as such, the E is governed by their 
open mouth, heart, and mind, which brings up the next point. 

The E is susceptible to excessive behaviors when it comes to their sensory 
sensitivity, and therein lies a warning concerning the potential for 
overindulgence in anything that feeds those senses—be it food, alcohol, drugs, 
too many sexual partners, and/or taking unnecessary risks in order to satisfy 
possible cravings for excitement and stimulation. Everything is contained in the 
E: good, bad, and in between. One example of this concept of the E holding 
everything is to be found in the word and idea of our Mother Earth. She is 


everything. Without her, we are nothing; we cease to exist. 

The average E would make a fantastic singer, orator, teacher, student (who is 
often interested in the occult or unusual), leader, politician, or actor, and is 
extraordinarily progressive and curious. The more 5 values and/or E energies in 
a name, the more likely it is that the holder will be drawn to unusual elements 
and attracted to extremes, adventures, and sensual, or “of the senses,” 
stimulation. The unrestrained and multiple E can easily become overwhelmed by 
their own search for excitement, which can translate into nervous or scattered 
energies, explosions of temper, restlessness, and lack of focus on basic issues, 
such as relationships. An unadulterated E can become both trying and tiring. 
This type of extreme energy is hard to turn off: they are the chatterbox, the 
nervous fiddler, the bouncing-off-the-walls personality. On occasion, especially 
when excited, the E is an energy that can be difficult to be around for extended 
periods of time. Fortunately, the E is usually softened or toned down by letters 
surrounding it. Usually. If not, get ready for an exceptionally eager extrovert 
who might drain you like water from a bathtub. 

The normal manifestation of the E is someone who is nonjudgmental, 
supportive of others, easy to be around, and usually very sensitive to the deeper 
dimensions of the senses—as in hearing the individual instruments in the band, 
seeing the face in an abstract painting, feeling each thread in the silken cloth, 
smelling the sea in the wind, and tasting the essence of the only bay leaf in the 
spaghetti sauce, and is also naturally receptive to the sixth sense, or intuition. 
The average E is generally happy, for this energy is aware of the possibilities of 
life and knows that opportunities abound, just waiting to be discovered. 

Last, but not certainly not least, the E is very affectionate, whimsical, loving, 
and sensually oriented. The E is also a potentially exciting intimate partner; the 
E puts the exotic and erotic into sEx. 


Traditional Descriptions 

Typical descriptions attached to the E include energetic, eager, positive, curious, 
open-minded, social, active, sensual, and adventurous. On the flip side, the E can 
also become careless, addicted, overbearing, unfocused, temperamental, restless, 


and self-absorbed. 


Cornerstones 

These are a great set of Cornerstone examples ... the E is Effortless in its 
Expression: Energy, Eager, Enthusiasm, Extend, Electricity, Excite, Exotic, 
Excess, Euphoria, Explode, Evil, Eon, Era ... the list is almost Endless. 


As a Current Energy Phase 

The five-year reign of the E offers many options. It can become a time of 
indulging the senses (perhaps negatively, as in addictions) or of seeking 
independence and freedom. When under this influence, the E/5 person can often 
find themselves swept along in a sequence of events, chosen or otherwise. It can 
represent an unstable and ever-changing time in relationships, jobs, homes, and 
life in general. If, however, the E follows an A, for example, this can be 
indicative of a new project, job, relationship, or “start,” and the enthusiasm 
generated by same. The E holds excitement, travel, new endeavors, success, and 
new faces and places, and its energy is anything but boring. 


F (Value of 8): Family and Cerebral Power 
The F holds similar energy to the E, minus the progressive action of the feet, or 
lower extension. Without its feet, the F tends to fall flat on its face should it go 
against its grounded and foundational nature and try to flee, for example. It is 
dependable and forward thinking but is fairly fixed. 

Cerebrally driven, the F personality is ruled by their logical brain waves and 
their mouth (like the E, this energy is open in head area). To say the F is 
governed by intellectually superior thought processes would be to say that ducks 
like water. The F is a composed and authoritative letter, which is fitting, as it is 
ruled by the usually controlling 8. It is a reclusive energy, not an active one and, 
as a result, needs a calm, quiet ambiance in which to think and rest. While the 
F’s choice is to express or not express, the F will not readily reveal their deepest 
thoughts; but when they are motivated to speak, they will invariably share 
something of value and will express it eloquently and sometimes, forcefully. 
Their opinions are fixed and when angered, their choice of words will be fierce 
and fine-tuned, come fast and furious, and run the gamut from frank to final. The 
F’s supportive numerical value of 8 lends the F its strict, often inflexible aspect, 
which they use to maintain their odd penchant for periods of silence while 
considering all points of view or information available on any given subject or 
situation. Since it is, as mentioned, influenced by the leftover energies of the E, 
the F can occasionally explode vocally with such velocity that walls and knees 


may shake, but their bark is worse than their bite. While more in control of 
themselves than the E, the F is also a fast-moving, flowing, and forward- 
reaching vocal letter energy, and can often be quite funny. 

The F makes a solid parent, good teacher, lawyer, doctor, researcher, scientist, 
or anything related to the necessary use of the intellect to form conclusions and 
then to share those conclusions with others. They also provide well for their 
family as responsibility, fidelity, and fortitude are amongst their guiding 
Traditionals; therefore, the F would make a good spouse or parent figure. 


Traditional Descriptions 
Typical descriptions for the F include the following: intellectual, responsible, 


loyal, dependable, humorous, expressive, faithful, domestic, controlled, and 
calm. Some more negative qualities include impersonal, impulsive, opinionated, 
critical, judgmental, inflexible, argumentative, and temperamental. 


Cornerstones 

The following words all point to open and flowing thought processes and the 
firmer aspects of established energy patterns: Fast, Fantastic, Furious, Fierce, 
Faith, Fertile, Friendship, Family, Father, and Federation. 


As a Current Energy Phase 

The F covers an eight-year period during which time one may find oneself under 
the control of a father, parental, boss, or authority figure or may be that father, 
parental, boss, or authority figure. It may also appear as a phase of learning, 
studying, and/or carrying familial or business responsibility. This is a rather rigid 
energy that can be relieved by vocal expression, but that is a choice only the F 
can make. As a result, the F is usually silent or talkative and morose or funny, or 
can alternate between the two. 


G (Value of 3): Guardian of Secrets 

The G is similar to the C, except the open communication of the C now has a 
“hand” covering its mouth, which effectively blocks the expression of inner 
thoughts and emotions; it is a protective, secretive, and silent energy. Because of 
the energy of the active number 3 value that supports the G, this person may 
appear to be extremely physically and/or mentally active, involved, outgoing, 
and social, when in reality, they are rather quiet and shy. The G is known to flee 
from sticky situations (which can be core to self-confidence and self-esteem 
issues), ignore problems, react impulsively, and attempt to avoid involvement in 
situations that may require vulnerability or honest revelation. However, not to 
paint a bleak picture, the G turns in on themselves; they are engaged in an inner 
search, a balance between body, mind, and spirit. They are spiritual, self- 
searching, analytical, self-critical, deeply thoughtful, and reflective. The 
presence of a G in a name, especially as the Cornerstone, often indicates a past 
or present negative situation, such as some form of abuse or even a secret that 
can cause the G to pull away, to withdraw or withhold. (Any word ending in a G 
holds the essence of the word, e.g., “holding.”) The inwardness of the G, their 
withholding and protectiveness, can and does lead to emotional toxicity and dis- 
ease that often sources back to the wounds that caused withdrawal in the first 
place. The G fears exposure and will go out of its way to avoid being found out. 
Their secret can involve anything—from just being genuinely shy to deliberately 
hiding something that makes them feel different (being gay, or feeling “geeky” 
perhaps), which they may have carried since formative years. 


The G is sensitive, has good intentions, is very introspective, and is generally 
calm and gentle in nature. It is hard to get to know a true G, as they can be 
superficial in some ways, which is to say that there is much more going on 
within than is reflected without. 

Another possibility for the G is not so pleasant. This can refer to an energy 
that is just plain untrustworthy. The secretiveness becomes deceit, the 
guardedness becomes deviousness, and the gentleness becomes disingenuous. 
This type of obviously negative G energy will hide their true selves and motives, 
will lie easily and be focused only on their own gain and progress. There are 
plenty of these types of G energies around, but the majority, thankfully, are more 
of the former description than the latter. 

One way of telling them apart, aside from surrounding letters, numeric 
influences, and your own intuitive sense, is that the positive G will often offer 
you spontaneous hugs or share something personal with you when you least 
expect it. 


Traditional Descriptions 

Typical descriptions of the average G include gentle, social, calm, nurturing, 
spiritual, seeking, active, reflective, charming, and helpful. More negative 
manifestations of the G essence include being suspicious, overly-idealistic, 
antisocial, moody, irrational, and manipulative. 


Cornerstones 
The following words all illustrate hidden or inner types of energies: God, Ghost, 
Gone, Gravity, Grudge, Gut, Giggle, Glutton, Gambler, Greed, and Gas. 


As a Current Energy Phase 

The three-year cycle of the G may manifest as a time to keep secrets—whether 
by choice or by necessity. It can also be a time of secrets revealed, again, by 
choice or by necessity, although a third party could also play a part here. A 
clandestine relationship or an event or a habit (addiction or abuse) could fall into 
both categories. Alternately, the G energy could present a time of soul searching, 
spiritual awakening, or a time of healing after surgery, a divorce, a death, or any 
other type of trauma. 


H (Value of 5): Ladder of Hope 


While the letter H is sometimes imaged as an open or closed window, I prefer 
the alternate symbol of the ladder—one that will take you up to Heaven or down 
to Hell. It is a potent letter, or ladder, offering a choice to reach up for the stars 
and success, or to sink into the underground of negativity, gloominess, toxic 
behaviors, and harmful habits or beliefs. A worst-case scenario for the 
downstairs H is addiction and self-destructive tendencies. Valued by the 5, 
which seeks freedom, independence, change, and sensory stimulation, the H is 
susceptible to curiosity about the world of the senses and often takes a trip, 
sometimes in the hopes of escape, down the ladder where they remain, or hide, 
until they choose to attempt to rise up from the depths. The choice for the H is 
obviously not a difficult one to make. It is to reach up. To climb and keep 
climbing until there is as much distance between the base of the ladder and 
themselves as possible. 

I know a lot about this particular letter, as my first name is Heather. I did go 
down the ladder; I know the cold, hard floors of the basement; however, I have 
two H values in my name and one of my trips through its energy phase finally 
took me up the rungs. I will not say the trip was without slippage, but ultimately, 
I have reached the upper rungs of my ladder and am still climbing. I can almost 
see Heaven from here. 

The H/5 is all about success and failure. It is about the ups and the downs of 
life and how well the H is able to hold on during the ride. As a cornerstone, the 
H will either reflect someone who will give up or someone who will, repeatedly 


if required, fight back and struggle for purchase. If progress is made up the 
ladder, the H can eventually become spiritually enlightened, wise, respected, 
loved, and successful. 

What is available to the H is achievement, success, and status. What is also 
available to the H is failure, addiction, and loss. 

It truly is a choice between Heaven and Hell, which all of Humanity faces. 

The balanced H is friendly, fun to be around, quite intelligent, and values 
freedom and independence while assimilating change and experiences with 
relative ease. An H who is passionate about something and overcomes the 
temptations residing at the base of the ladder is perfectly capable of going up the 
ladder and acquiring spiritual and material wealth. The H also has a splendid 
sense of humor, is nurturing and empathic, and is partial to good music, food, 
drink, and art in any form. The heart of the H is not easily reached. However, 
when the H does fall (down the ladder?) in love, it is heavily and heartily—and 
often hopelessly. The H is the type who will carry a torch for years, long after 
the person loved is no longer in the picture. 

The H is ruled by the senses and is susceptible to hurt feelings, insecurities, 
and strong emotions. If someone should shake the ladder until the H loses its 
grip, so to speak, the risk of depression, backsliding, and reversal of gained 
ground is always possible. Possible but likely not lasting, for the H builds and 
maintains solid friendships and is rarely without support and encouragement. 

One of the original meanings for the symbol H is that of the “cultivator of the 
field of spiritual growth,” and their instinct is to construct a firm foundation for 
the base of their ladder to rest upon. The H will, almost unknowingly, do just 
that during the course of their lifetime, particularly if the H is a Cornerstone, the 
result being that once the H has embarked upon their journey, they are rarely 
down for long. The trick is to get going, keep climbing, and not succumb to 
inertia brought on by disillusionment and disappointment. 


Traditional Descriptions 
Typical descriptions of the H are independent, private, helpful, compassionate, 


intuitive, spiritual, gregarious, and humorous. The darker aspects of the H can 
include depression, lack of motivation, aimlessness, addictive tendencies, 
irresponsibility, arrogance, and stubbornness. 


Cornerstones 

This letter energy speaks its essences quite clearly—it’s either up or down or 
two opposite elements, as the following words depict: High, Height, Heaven, 
Hope, Helicopter, Hemisphere, Harmony, Happy, Hazard, Hate, Hysteria, Heat, 
Harm, Hurt, and Hell. 


As a Current Energy Phase 

The five-year phase of the H involves several major life choices, and these 
choices impact all areas of the life of the name holder. The essential choice is 
simple, yet is a difficult one to make. It is mainly concerned with the spiritual, 
and centers around questions involving personal values and belief systems— 
there is potentially serious emotional chaos here, and the challenge is to find the 
strength to overcome and to reach up. Hope over humiliation, heal over hurt. It is 
to choose the positive over the negative: it is “going for it” versus settling; 
having faith versus having another drink, or donut, or pill. It is accepting or 
turning down the challenge. It means hanging in there when your arms are so 
tired they feel like overcooked pasta strings. This is the time to take the risk on 
the positive side. Take a deep breath, plant your feet, and try one rung at a time. 
If you are afraid of heights, have faith. You will not fall, and even if you do, God 
will catch you. 


| (Value of 1): Intuition or God’s Gift 
This is the symbol of the human being in original, ancient pictorials. It is the 
way we refer to ourselves as beings, but its specific reference is to the 
connective communication (Intuition) between God and Man, but is also the 
separation between the two: it speaks of man’s ego as in “I want” and “I need.” 
Its energy is at once personal and collective, as in Include. 

I have the highest respect for this particular letter, as it represents the genuine 
unification of all to a higher power. The I represents the gift of intuition, which 
speaks as that “gut feeling” or the phrase “I knew that was going to happen.” 
Generally, the subject would have had a bad feeling about something or 
someone but repeatedly ignored their intuition. I think of it as a telephone. A 
little, tiny red one that sits in the middle of my stomach and from which a thin, 
red cord climbs inexorably, endlessly, up into the skies. At the other end of my 
phone is my Creator. Or, my Universal “Dad.” He is my protector and advisor 
and calls me when something is amiss. My phone rings and produces a “funny 
feeling.” This sensation can be experienced other ways as well, but whatever 
way it comes, it rings your bell to communicate important information to you. I 


think of the intuition primarily as a warning system, although it can guide you to 
incredibly positive things, too. 

Ruled by the unstoppable number 1, this is a letter that equals very strong 
intuitive energy (even the word that defines this energy has three Is within its 
form, one of which is a Comerstone) and is open to new ideas, progressive in 
thought and deed, intelligent, spiritual, and objective. Those with several of 
these letter energies in their name could make talented artists, musicians, 
lyricists, spiritual guides, priests, social workers, or therapists. (Did you happen 
to notice all of the I values in the occupations I just listed?) 

Where the number 1 is focused on itself and its own survival and gain, the 
letter I is a world apart in that it speaks of spirituality. It is tied to reproduction, 
creation, God, and man, and its ultimate purpose is to reignite the spark of the 
candle that leads us home—think of the candle in the window, guiding all to 
safety, and the safety is to be found in spiritual awareness. The I/1 is 
representative of the awakening; the understanding that there is much more to 
the existence of mankind than mankind realizes. This realization is underscored 
by the Original Force energy of the number 1. 


Traditional Descriptions 

Typical descriptives that are attached to the I include original, open-minded, 
approachable, creative, intellectual, selfless, and intuitive, while the more 
negative side can appear as impatient, egocentric, selfish, close-minded, and a 


my-way-or-the-highway kind of mentality. 


Cornerstones 
The following words all picture something that starts or originates from the 


inside: Imagination, Instinct, Intuition, Illusion, Insight, Immune, Ignite, 


Intelligence, and Intellect. 


As a Current Energy Phase 

The one-year period of the letter I is a highly charged period of increased 
intuitive activity. This is the time and opportunity to listen to your own gut 
feelings. Dreams may become stronger and the sense of déja vu may occur more 
frequently. There may be something of importance, a message of sorts that is 
trying to make itself known to you, but most definitely, this is a wake-up call, 
which is designed to awaken you to your own inner knowing or sixth sense. 


J (Value of 1): Judgment 

Here is one of the more straightforward and occasionally rather harsh letters in 
our alphabet. It is fairly direct in its message; it holds on to the past as a 
reference point for its future, which one can readily see from its aesthetic 
structure: its bottom leg reaches back into the past. For this reason, it is often 
found that the J (especially when found as a Comerstone) will have experienced 
something rather destructive or, at the very least, quite negative at some point in 
their early lives and spend a lot of thought and energy either remembering the 
event or occurrence in question or trying to suppress it. The J tends to live in the 
past, or at least, they have a difficult time living fully in the present. Slights, 
snide words, or real or imagined critiques are not soon let go—the J is not one to 
forgive and forget so easily. It may say it does, but the inner truth is a different 
story. 

The J is the jury of your peers, the judge from your nastiest dream, and the 
jailer from your worst nightmare. The extremely negative J is capable of holding 
on to inner anger and justifying it for quite some time. On the other hand, they 
can also be fair and balanced as they weigh actions versus reactions and causes 
versus effects, as the J learns from its past experiences. The J then tries to protect 
itself from any undesirable situations repeating themselves. 

The J is valued by the number 1, hence they are very self-reliant, able to 
survive on their own, ego centered, and will rarely ask for or accept help, even 
when they might need it. Not naturally demonstrative, the J appears non- 
emotional (although they will indicate affections through their actions) and in 
control of themselves and circumstances. This combination helps J energies 


become natural leaders, authority figures, and persons in positions of control— 
the J energy does indeed create good judges, jury members, lawyers, or any 
other member within the justice system. They are also excellent teachers, 
doctors, politicians, bankers, or power brokers. The J likes to be in control of 
themselves at all times and they are almost incapable of letting their true feelings 
and insecurities show, especially in social situations. They are outstanding actors 
who seldom play themselves. The lesson of the J is to marry the past with the 
present, or to learn the lessons and then let the past go. 

Of course, the intensity of the J is affected by the energies, or letters, around it 
and is often tendered by surrounding energies. These ambient energies often give 
the J a chance to be objective about its experiences, and hopefully a sense of 
humor has a chance to develop. Although there are certainly some J energies 
whose sense of identity is tempered by softer energies, they will still hold true on 
some level to the above-mentioned characteristics, but may reflect a joyous, 
jubilant, jocular disposition, which is sometimes a juxtaposition of their true self. 


Traditional Descriptions 

The J is usually focused, determined, efficient, meticulous, disciplined, logical, 
and self-reliant. The negative side of the J can produce someone who is tense, 
reserved, superior, critical, judgmental, severe, unforgiving, unemotional, and 


even cruel. 


Cornerstones 
The following words all hold a link to history (or a point of origin) within their 
framework: Justice, Jealous, Judge, Jettison, Jump, Jail, Join, Jackknife, Jet, and 


Javelin. 


As a Current Energy Phase 

The J covers a 1-year period that involves something from the past becoming an 
issue in the present. This can be a person from the past returning with some 
unfinished business in their briefcase, memories resurfacing, or an old pattern 
rearing its ugly head. This can manifest as problems in a relationship or job, or 
can involve the legal system, lawyers, and contracts. This is not generally a 
loving time; rather, it may involve anger, frustration, sorrow, or battles. It is also, 
obviously, a great opportunity for self-growth through self-knowledge. Although 
dealing with a past issue can be uncomfortable, it also brings with it the 
opportunity to adjust or correct previous errors in judgment or actions. 


K (Value of 2): Kaleidoscopic Knowledge 

Unlike the J, the K has little or nothing to do with the past. It is open to anything 
and will try everything at least once since it is reaching forward to gain new 
experiences and new knowledge. That is one of the strongest traditional 
meanings attached to the K: the endless drive for knowledge of anything 
spiritual, intuitive, or progressive in nature. The structure of the K shows an arm 
reaching up with an open palm, which is connected to both the offering and the 
receiving of gifts. If you think about a kaleidoscope and visualize the brilliant 
shards of vibrant colors endlessly clicking from one pattern to the next, you 
might have a vague idea of the inside energy of the positively developed K. It is 
a special letter—one that holds its own, almost-mystical element, which, if 
accessed and used, is quite beautiful and esoteric. 

Since it is ruled by the number 2, the K is easy to be with, kind, full of 
interesting ideas, and curious about almost everything. The K looks only to the 
future; they have no ties to the past other than what they learned there, which 
means the K is not one to hold grudges or remain angry for extended periods. In 
fact, the K will release the past with admirable ease. They love good music as 
music calms the soul; they are compassionate and interesting to observe in that 
the K is not a typical everyday energy. It may even be an unusual experience to 
kiss a K! In a good way, I mean. 

The K steps into its power with its palm up—it is at once holding 


opportunities and gifts out for others and accepting them from Universe. The K 
is the Spiritual Seeker, the one who thirsts for knowledge such as that held in the 
awakened Kundalini (which in Sanskrit refers to the coiled serpent or snake at 
the base of the human spine—its awakening is thought to represent a higher state 
of consciousness). The developed K follows their natural path, much as a King 
assumes the throne. I have to add here that Kings have been known for their 
extravagance, which illustrates the warning attached to the K/2: beware of 
squandering unexpected windfalls, or anticipating a windfall that hasn’t blown in 
yet and spending it anyway. Could be a bit of a downer when the windfall bites 
the dust and the K is left holding the bills. 

Aside from that, the K is a good friend, who will often come up with unique 
solutions to problems, present offbeat ideas, enjoy attending rather unusual 
social events, and motivate others to try something new. The K can have many 
paramours for they will seek until they find the “right one.” This may take 
awhile, for the K will not settle—they will keep searching until they have found 
the perfect “other” to complete the number 2 they are ruled by. 


Traditional Descriptions 
The K can be described as experimental, progressive, curious, outgoing, social, 


generous, unique, forgiving, adaptable, and kind. More negative manifestations 
include inconsiderate, hard, moody, sneaky, manipulative, overbearing, 


unpredictable, and selfish. 


Cornerstones 

The following words all point to new levels reached or unusual elements: 
Karma, Knowledge, Key, Kinetic, Kevlar, Kilowatt, Kinky, King, Kangaroo, 
Kidnap, and Kill. 


As a Current Energy Phase 

The 2-year period of the K brings with it originality and sparkles with new 
concepts, ideas, actions, relationships, jobs, and a myriad of other potentialities. 
The spiritual aspect of the K can result in the awakening of the Kundalini, which 
in turn results in a new spiritual outlook, new attention to the health of the 
physical body, and new hobbies or interests being undertaken. The K phase 
brings with it refreshment, a sense of renewal, and a resurgence of curiosity and 
ideas. 


L (Value of 3): Loving Hand 


The L represents an outstretched arm, one reaching out to help, to assist, to 
motivate, to guide, and to guard. It is connected to lamed in Hebrew (which 
connects to a “prod” that gently moved oxen forward, rather like a “tail lift”) and 
refers to the Life Force and, in particular, the procreation of the species. 
Therefore, it also rules sensual and sexual expression and, when combined with 
its numerical influence of 3, the activity inherent in the L/3 could lead the 
innocent aspect of the L, or its “seeking love” aspect, into situations more to do 
with lust, impulsiveness, or obsession than love. 

The L is also an upside-down 7, which explains the L’s overall interest in the 
metaphysical and openness to the psychic world. The L carries a strong belief or 
sense that there is something more to this world than our eyes see and is also 
very idealistic, positive, romantic, sensitive, compassionate, motivated, and 
cheerful. The Lusty Lungs of the L can even translate into song: more than the 
occasional L is a closet, shower, or car singer, and some have even made it their 
career (LeAnn Rimes, Lenny Kravitz, Lena Horne, and Linda Ronstadt, to name 
but a few). 

The positively developed L is an upbeat energy, likes to help, falls in love 
wholeheartedly (often repeatedly and helplessly), and is a loyal and true friend. 
However, cross an L and watch out. Any breach in trust or moral or ethical 
guidelines is almost unforgivable and you will watch the serene L disappear in 
front of your eyes. Silence will descend, the air will chill, and frost will appear in 
the L’s eyes as thick as frost on your windshield. You will be out in the cold. For 


how long depends on the seriousness of the transgression. Luckily, the L cannot 
hold a grudge terribly long. 


Traditional Descriptions 
The L can be described as spiritual, loving, peaceful, compassionate, receptive, 


motivational, eloquent, empathic, passionate, and helpful. A negative L energy 
can produce someone who is obsessive, intrusive, interfering, frustrated, 


insecure, depressed, and addictive. 


Cornerstones 
The following words all illustrate a forward, helpful, or loving aspect: Leader, 
Lawyer, Laser, Learn, Lend, Lasting, Light, Laudable, Laugh, Lust, Live, and 


Love. 


As a Current Energy Phase 

The 3-year period of the L is one of emotional fulfillment or emotional pain, 
depending on the letter before it and energies surrounding it. The L can refer to 
becoming involved romantically, socially, or in self-improvement regimes such 
as yoga, diet, and exercise. The L also offers the opportunity for spiritual growth 
and personal education, be this in the form of scholastic or artistic pursuits, 
volunteering time to those less fortunate, or aiding and assisting in some way. 
This time is spent on the self, another, others, or all three. It is a time of love in 
all its forms. 


M (Value of 4): Mute Cover 


Spread the legs of this character and double it and one has what resembles a 
Mountain range. The M shows ups and downs, heights and valleys. It is above 
and below; the surface and the depths. 

Curiously, the M is the only letter in the alphabet that is pronounced with the 
lips together or mouth closed. It represents that which is mute, unspoken, deep, 
or unseen. Its closest tie is to water (it is an upside-down W); many M energies 
love scuba diving, swimming, and fishing, or are otherwise enamored of H320. 


Picture a marine robotic engineer living alone on a houseboat and you will have 
a good idea of the M energies. Those connections to water, which rule emotions, 
and its inherent muteness make emotional openness a difficult, if not impossible, 
task for the strong M. In other words, the M has a hard time expressing honest 
and intimate emotions. However, since the governing of emotions ties in with 
the responsible, dependable, reliable, and logical number 4, this energy is a 
natural in terms of running a business or a home (marriage), for that matter. 
Although the M sometimes forgets the nature of the two is completely different 
and, as a result, can succeed at one and fail repeatedly at the other. The challenge 
for the M is similar to the D (both are ruled by 4), which is to open up. In the 
M’s case, it would mean emotionally. If the M is not able or willing to disclose 
inner thoughts and feelings occasionally, these unexpressed emotions will 
naturally build up, pressurize, and eventually erupt, surprising anyone around 
into silence themselves. 


The M is closely connected to the W in that they are similar, although 
reversed, images of each other. The difference between the two is that the M 
energy is centered in the valley at its base and middle of the M, while the W’s 
point of view is from the top, or peak of the mountain in its center. One is most 
certainly a brighter place to be sitting than the other. 

The M is appears to be a rock, from the outside, at least. It is in control, solid 
and dependable and is attractive from the point of view of a potential partner, in 
business or otherwise. There is much hidden under the veneer of the M. 
Consider that a volcano could sit inside any mountain you should care to look at; 
one may not be able to see it, but that does not mean it is not there. There are 
deep emotions kept under wraps: the M is very intense and profoundly 
vulnerable, which explains why it hides—fear of rejection, humiliation, and 
pain. It is actually a tender energy that is, due to past circumstances, used to 
shielding and protecting itself. This urge also extends to those the M loves ... 
this energy is one of the strongest in the familial-protection department. 


Traditional Descriptions 
The M is usually seen as in control, administrative, authoritarian, intelligent, 


efficient, determined, loyal, domestic, and factual. Negative characteristics can 
include judgmental, condemning, defensive, uncommunicative, uncooperative, 
withdrawn, arrogant, tactless, and critical. 


Cornerstones 
The following words all connect to a concealed activity: Marine, Marsh, 
Mountain, Marriage, Mind, Magick, Mystic, Mask, and Mystery. 


As a Current Energy Phase 

The 4-year period of the M is an odd one. There is a silence in the air, an 
immobility. Yet it is also a safe time—a time ruled by proper logic and 
responsibility. This could be a marriage, the formation of a family, or the 
acquisition of a steady (boring?) job, but one that pays the bills. It is a time of 
unspoken thoughts and feelings. I read this period as one of stillness and 
practicality. Not a bad place to be, but one that would demand release after 4 
years. 


N (Value of 5): Natural Energy Filter 

I find the N a curious letter. I am not sure exactly why, but I do. Maybe it is the 
normal, naturally balanced energy which emanates from it which seems at odds 
with its numeric value of 5 that represents constant change, keen awareness of 
the senses, freedom, and open communication. The neutrality and balance of the 
N is further diversified when one considers that it contains two joined 7s lying 
sideways (which makes it inordinately intuitive and open to mysteries) and that 
it retains its exact shape when turned upside down. The N is like an electrical 
charge—it comes from somewhere and is going somewhere. The energy of the 
N travels up the left limb, down the corridor, and up into space, so to speak. 
Imagine the two legs gripped and pulled apart into a shape like a bolt of 
lightning, similar to the Z. There is constant energy flowing straight through the 
letter, almost a direct connection to the next movement or occurrence or event; 
yet it somehow remains on an even keel. One thing flows into another and the N 
adapts. 

One of the challenges for this letter also sits within the world of the senses, 
and the understanding and incorporation of the intuition, the additional sense. 
Since acceptance of this sixth sense has the potential to turn the world of 
perceived senses on its ear, the main goal of the N involves keeping everything 
balanced, or normal. The N spreads a soothing balm over unexpected or 
disruptive vibrations. 

The N person is generally a happy character. They are calm, rational, and 
neutral. They are open to new experiences and enjoy unique people and places. 


Being under the influence of the 5 makes the holder prone to seeking excitement 
and experiencing changes, which would translate into someone who loves to 
travel rather than live an entire life in one place. The N changes jobs, partners, 
and interests with regularity, but does it all smoothly and with a certain grace. 
When they do settle down for a bit, they prefer to be in a position of authority 
(whether in a job, home, or relationship) that affords plenty of room to move. 
The N does well in almost any career, as they are highly adaptable and can 
adjust to new situations quite easily; however, they must learn to accept day-to- 
day routines in order to experience complete success. 

In relationships, again, the N is adaptable and will attract many potential 
suitors and has a good chance of marrying an almost-perfect mate. The N is 
nothing if not balanced and will instinctively recognize their match. 


Traditional Descriptions 
Typical descriptives that are attached to the N are calm, balanced, candid, 


receptive, accepting, adventurous, diplomatic, charming, and attractive. The 
negative side of the N can create someone who is self-indulgent, irresponsible, 


addictive, materialistic, and shallow. 


Cornerstones 
The following words all connect to a flow of energy that alters one state of being 
or place to another: Noose, Nirvana, Neutral, Naked, Nourish, Nuclear, Nurture, 


Numb, and Nervous. 


As a Current Energy Phase 

Going with the flow would describe the 5-year span of the N. Changes abound, 
travel is probable, the senses are peaked, communication is highlighted, and 
freedom is necessary; it all requires maintaining an inner calm through possibly 
chaotic circumstances. This is a time of activity, yet, paradoxically, it is also a 
time of quiet adjustment. Marriages, divorces, public recognition, relocations, 
births of babies and businesses, deals made or lost, deaths and other endings all 
tie into the elements of change. The N phase seems to carry its very own 
guardian angel as a sense of peace accompanies its presence throughout this 
phase, chaotic or otherwise. 


O (Value of 7): Open to All 


The O is so vast in its potential meanings that it is almost impossible to express 
its breadth with mere words. It represents the All-Seeing Eye, which sounds like 
a rather omnipotent energy, and alludes to the intuitive and spiritual quality of 
this obscure letter energy. 

The O also refers to the actual eyeballs in our heads: how and what we see and 
how that is interpreted. Further, it relates to infinity as it is a cipher, and it adds 
strength to that which comes before it (for example, 3 people versus 3,000 
people). It holds all and yet is empty. The O is also the open mouth and rules 
that which comes out of it. Hence, it also relates to verbal flow as in talking, 
whispering, yelling—any form of oration and all things utterable—or 
unutterable, for that matter. 

The O is ruled by the magickal number 7, which is brain-focused and involves 
a choice of science (materialism and reality) versus metaphysical (spirituality 
and esoteric) study. The O is of a seeking origin and can represent an opening, 
portal, or door to another dimension or realm of understanding. 

This energy can fall victim to frustration and outbursts of anger as a result of 
not understanding the vastness of its interests and potential. This is, truly, the all- 
or-nothing letter. The scope of the values and possibilities in the O make it one 
of those letters that is rarely fully developed—partially perhaps, but not quite all 
the way. Should you run into someone who has a few Os in their name and, 


assuming these are even marginally developed O energies, you will find some of 
the following characteristics: charming, adaptable, conversant, intelligent, 
confident, social, intuitive, investigative, curious, and fun to be around. The 
more common form of this energy, however, is more focused on the struggle 
between frustration/anger and objectivity: think of it as being either trapped 
inside the O, or being on the outside, free. Open book: closed book. Open 
shutter: closed shutter (as in camera lens or window covers). That’s the O. The 
energy can either get through or it can’t—a condition quite similar to the D 
(door) energy, yet so very, very different. 

A further aspect of the O is that it has a choice we have already seen in other 
letters: sensual versus spiritual growth, and intellectual versus metaphysical 
pursuits. The only way for the O to come into their own is to understand that 
objectivity and wisdom are their most valuable tools. Should this happen, the 
magickal will combine with the almost Omnipotent to unleash Power Supreme. 
For one symbol to hold so very many meanings and potentialities is somewhat 
difficult to grasp. The O is just such a fascinating energy; it seems to hold the 
beginning and the ending of everything in its form. Like Alpha and Omega. 

An O energy will be engaging, open, entertaining, opulent, and mysterious. 
Their interests will range from the sublime to the ridiculous, the intellectual to 
the mundane, the intangible to the concrete. This character may be difficult to 
keep up with at times, as their curiosity and desire to know is sometimes all- 
encompassing and can leave others feeling rather left out or on the “outside” 
looking in. 

By contrast, an O can live on the inside of the circle and live a life of sheer 
frustration due to feeling trapped by boundaries, which they have chosen 
themselves. This type of O energy will be ornery, opposing, oppressive, obtuse, 
oblivious, odd, opinionated, or just plain obnoxious. 

Some O energies that illustrate the vast potentialities of this letter energy 
include Obama, Oprah, the Osmonds, the Osbournes, and the (Wizard of) Oz. 


Traditional Descriptions 
Typical descriptives attached to the O include articulate, adaptable, friendly, 


honorable, intellectual, curious, open-minded, intuitive, powerful, and creative. 
A trapped or frustrated O energy can come across as arrogant, opinionated, 
stagnant, stubborn, conceited, irritable, overbearing, angry, secretive, and bossy. 


Cornerstones 
The following words all suggest the power and breadth the O covers: Origin, 


Omnipotent, Ocean, Orbit, Olympic, Opposites, Occult, Ominous, Obese, 
Ordeal, Obituary, and Old. 


As a Current Energy Phase 

The 7-year span of the O can be an eye-opener. Since the 7 rules the brain and 
will involve either logic or spirit and often both, it can contain an abundance of 
almost anything you can imagine. The O will either free or imprison; it will offer 
a variety of paths. Openings appear and it is up to the individual whether these 
openings are viewed as obstacles or opportunities. It is a time of expansion, of 
looking at things from a different point of view, of investigating foreign ideas 
and ideals and of integrating this knowledge with that which is already known. 
Habits, beliefs, routines, emotions, and spiritual bases are all up for possible 
review and revision. 


P (Value of 8): Pensive Intellect 

Similar to the F, the P is highly intelligent, intellectual, and analytical. However, 
there is a major difference between the two. While the F is open to 
communication, the P is closed. Much of the constant brainstorming is done in 
silence and is an ongoing process during which the P analyzes, weighs, and 
finally forms a decision or verdict, which is only occasionally expressed or 
pronounced. This expression will often take the form of explosive yet controlled 
criticism or anger. 

Valued by the 8, the P is the one in control of itself and others, the ultimate 
authoritarian, the leader—consider the term “president.” The P will do all in its 
power to persevere under pressure. Their personal goal is to present a perfect and 
pleasing performance and persona. 

However, while they are so busy creating and sustaining a picture of 
perfection, the P is likely to entirely miss the lesson of its numerical teacher, 
which is to learn to balance Earth power with spiritual knowledge. The P needs 
to learn to think (ironically) before they speak, for the words that come, 
unchecked, from their mouth tend to be blunt even if intended to help. But more 
than that, they need to learn to use their thoughts in a less structured and 
disciplined manner, thus allowing spirit to enter the mind and heart. 

It is a curiosity that while the P’s world is one of thoughts, words, and 
contemplation of information processed through the brain, their main weakness 
is ineffectiveness when communicating. The P can sometimes suffer from a 


superiority complex, which is a direct influence from the controlling 8, and thus 
often finds it difficult to express themselves without passing judgment or 
offering what they see as constructive criticism. Another lesson for the P: to 
expand their insatiable appetite for data to include compassion for the less 
fortunate and acceptance of differing lifestyles and opinions. While the P 
demands perfection of themselves, their expectations of others is often 
excessive, unrealistic, and demanding, and too often results in separations of all 
kinds. The P needs to soften itself, find the liberating balance in the positive 8 
they are ruled by, and look more to faith than to fact. 

Romantically, the P must learn also to differentiate possessiveness from love 
and marriage from partnerships (as in business partners), for never the twain 
shall meet. Until this is accomplished, the P will find perplexity to be a constant 
companion in their search for love. 


Traditional Descriptions 
The P is often described as intellectual, focused, moral, controlled, goal- 


oriented, reliable, honest, and loyal. In negative form, the P can be opinionated, 
stubborn, uncommunicative, possessive, dictatorial, curt, and in extreme cases, 


psychotic. 


Cornerstones 
The following words all illustrate the closed or deep source of the P and include 
Philosophy, Pregnant, Pause, Pensive, Portal, Power, Panic, and Paralyze. 


As a Current Energy Phase 

The 8-year reign of the P is not usually a particularly liberating time. Its energy 
is one of being confined, either by being locked in thought patterns, lacking 
emotional release or being caught in a situation from which there is seemingly 
no escape. Prison, if you will. This prison can be one of one’s own making, or it 
can transpire through marriage to an inappropriate partner, or by being under 
contract to something or someone that one discovers too late is not working out 
as hoped or planned. There is a need for emotional release—to free the psyche 
from pain and paralysis. The key to releasing this pressure is in the holder’s 
hand, and it is up to them to use it. 


Q (Value of 1): Quirky Energy 


Here is yet another highly curious letter. Its pictorial history includes images of a 
monkey with a “tail,” a head with a “neck,” and an O with a “leg,” although its 
main reference is to the base of the brain. One connection is the French “queue,” 
which originates with the Latin for “tail” (which is exactly what a group of 
people in a line look like). It holds many of the positive potentials of the O, but 
is now balanced by the tail which primarily results in its ability to laugh at itself 
as the tail “tickles” the base of the brain. Some sources suggest the tail of the Q 
represents O x 2, which refers to the sign of infinity, the lemniscate. 

While the O is ruled by the thought-filled 7, the Q carries a value of 1, which 
gives it focus, ambition, and energy. It also represents an eye, as in the Third 
Eye or vision on a more psychic level. The Q personality is very outgoing; they 
see things differently, have an incredibly vast imagination, are original, quick 
thinkers, and are open to all, which means the Q may just as easily become 
enthralled by the nonsensical as the conventional. 

Another curious, however purely mechanical aspect to this energy is that the 
letter u follows most words beginning with Q. There is seemingly no real reason 
for this anomaly other than the sound is fairly guttural (ancients wrote the sound 
of the Q as “Cw’”), and it lends itself to few other vibrations. Alphabetical 
evolution now allows us to visit the “Queen” instead of the “Cwen.” Upon 
further introspection, perhaps therein lies the closest to the truth about the Q: 


Queen. I believe that most Queens were or are, indeed, slightly eccentric and 
their lifestyles definitely differ from those of the average citizen. Their 
traditional role in life almost guarantees that they will view daily existence from 
a particular vantage point. They will see life differently, experience life 
differently, and live each day in a unique and unusual way. This description 
seems to illustrate the overall essence of the Q ... even if one is not a Queen. 

Most Qs are found to be quirky in one way or another. They are original 
energies and deeper than they might first appear. Kind of like quicksand: make 
sure you do not prejudge the unconventional Q. You might find yourself stuck in 
a nasty situation with a sinking feeling in the pit of your stomach. 


Traditional Descriptions 
Common character traits for the Q include objective, curious, original, creative, 


humorous, imaginative, intuitive, and sometimes, eccentric. A negative Q can be 
egocentric, aimless, sarcastic, unreasonable, arrogant, and just plain odd. 


Cornerstones 
The following words all have to do with a base or particular origin: Quagmire, 
Quake, Quest, Question, Quote, Quick, and Quench. 


As a Current Energy Phase 

It is perhaps a good thing that the reign of the Q lasts only 1 year or one may 
have to be quarantined! This is an odd letter and its affects can be just as odd. 
There is humor present as well as bizarre occurrences, out-of-the-ordinary 
situations, revelations, and questions. This will most likely be one of the 
queerest energies to pass through in the entire alphabet, but it is not negative— 
merely uniquely quirky. 


R (Value of 2): Reaching for a Higher Level 
Here we have the pent-up energy of the P, combined with progress as the foot 
moves forward (lower right extension). The R is restrained, yet forward moving. 
It reconciles caution with optimism and may indicate travels along a rough road 
requiring resilience and faith. 

The R is quite mysterious and reticent, and its energy seems to be one of 
challenge and gain after several losses: this energy centers around testing and 
repeating. The experience of the R phase is a period of time during which either 
all hell breaks loose in one form or another or past experiences with the R phase 
now present rewards and riches. The R is all about tests given and lessons 
learned, but its core subject is really quite simple. It is the test of right and wrong 
(notice the R sound to both words) and the voice of intuition that provides the 
answers, whether listened to or not. If said lessons have been absorbed and truly 
learned, then the R will present a rare chance at rebirth, complete with the ability 
to rewrite (or at least edit) personal history. Generally speaking, though, 
passages through the R must be taken a number of times before redemption is 
possible. During the testing times, the R is often fortunate enough, with its value 
of 2, to find solace and support from many friends, yet the road of the R can be a 
very lonely place: the lessons are often quite personal and private and involve, 
primarily, intimate or family relationships. The truth about the R character is that 
they must honestly answer questions about their conduct and contributions in 
regard to intimate and social relationships. This can be a painful run, lesson- 
wise, but the sooner the truth, the sooner the reward. 

The R represents the Pineal gland, which is about the size of a pea and sits 


right in the center of the brain, between and behind the eyes. Even scientists 
have reluctantly agreed that there is a certain mystery surrounding the Pineal 
gland and it has been carefully acknowledged for its intuitive potentialities. 

The R represents resurrection, rebirth, and regeneration; therefore, a new start, 
or a new way of “seeing” this world and Universe. Drastic measures are 
sometimes required to accomplish a deed of such major significance and 
magnitude. This energy needs to reach ahead, to resort to alternate methods, to 
Strive, to try again. It has a moving-forward feeling to it. To illustrate, read the 
following words and notice the forward motion held within the words: rush, run, 
race, relay, reckless, rescue, rapid, ready, and raise. Another interesting 
indication of this forward energy is apparent in words with “re” as prefixes. The 
intimation in these words is that of receiving a second chance at something, the 
opportunity to do it again. For example: reactivate, renew, recreate, rehearse, 
reclaim, relive, resurrect, and reform. 

The seeking and spiritual R experiences their tests, sees things in a new way, 
hears with new ears, and adjusts their existence and perceptions accordingly. 
Prominent Rs hold second chances and, most importantly, renewal. Upon 
completing a name rotation containing one or two Rs successfully, the R would 
revel in revival and radiant rejoicing, for the rewards and riches I mentioned 
earlier would be theirs to enjoy. This type of developed R, usually into their 
middle years, would make exceptional teachers, leaders, motivators, or writers 
whose humanitarianism and compassion could herald much success. If single, 
this is the most likely time a “ready” R will find its mate. Romantic soul mate, 
that is. It is also the time that the direction, the niche, regarding careers can 
finally be found. 

On the other hand, the R is also known for its negative responses to repetitive 
tests. The R can become rebellious, rude, and filled with rage. They are reactive 
and unrepentant. Roar, terror, and horror are good examples of negative R 
energy. 

Happily, these periods do pass, so don’t panic, but I must add that anyone with 
several Rs in their name might want to consider spelling it differently, if possible 
(by dropping a double R, for instance). The energy of the R, while progressive, 
often entails seriously trying times: the R is designed for those who are willing 


and able to grasp the higher level of knowledge held within its structure. Major 
spiritual transformation is possible in the presence of the redeeming R because 
the holder sees themselves as they truly are, and a certain humbleness comes 
along with this new point of view. 


Traditional Descriptions 
Character traits of the R energy include progressive, tenacious, thoughtful, 


accepting, loyal, compassionate, forgiving, loving, and understanding. The 
darker side of the R can manifest as being unmotivated, passive, self-pitying, 
self-destructive, impatient, angry, and even abusive. 


Cornerstones 
The following words all hold a fresh start or show a reaching-forward type of 
energy: Rebirth, Reconcile, Relieve, Resurrect, Run, Race, Release, and Risk. 


As a Current Energy Phase 

The 2-year period of the R holds one of two distinct possibilities. Both are 
deeply personal and are related to the hidden truths of right and wrong actions, 
words, and treatments. 

The first is to revisit lessons not learned and trials not completed in an effort to 
understand the reasons for the presence of an R in a name energy, which is, quite 
simply, to learn the difference between right action and wrong action, 
specifically around relationships. If this is the case, this 2-year transit can prove 
to be trying to say the least, and if it happens to be followed by an E, well, that 
will just emphasize this phase. 

The second possibility is one of having successfully learned the differences 
between right and wrong action and having applied them to one’s own life, 
specifically in relation to intimate connections. Relationships improve, as does 
the outlook and reaction to life in general. This phase can be extremely positive, 
fortunes can improve, and the future can hold many pleasant surprises; if an E 
follows here, blessings may be counted. 


S (Value of 3): Senses of Man 

Strictly ruled by the senses and valued by the activity of the 3, the S can be 
sensitive, stimulating, smart, silly, sly, sneaky, and seductive. The activity of the 
3 it is ruled by takes the power of adaptability up into the brain, where the S 
analyzes, then down into the physical body, where the S actualizes. A strong 
connector here is that the senses represent the actual physical body and what it is 
capable of doing in this physical world. They can also point to the actual 
functions that occur within the body itself, and again, the idea of adaptability 
comes up. One of the main strengths of the S is the ability to go with the flow 
and to adapt to different situations, which is likely why the S is perfectly capable 
of telling you what you want or need to hear and then heading off to do exactly 
what they see fit to do for themselves. The S is overly grounded—they rely on 
their senses and how to use them to get ahead in a material world. 

The S puts the snake it is symbolically connected to in the grass, the sex in 
sexy, and the secret in secretive. The S is charming and deceptive, although not 


always on purpose, this just seems to be their nature. Like the snake, the power 
of the S is insidious; they can be swift and stealthy and can slide right under your 
nose and disappear silently into the soft shadows of the sunset before you have 
even clued in to their presence. This energy can adapt to circumstances or 
change their approach, manner, timing, or entry point to line up with their 
intentions, which is to say that the S usually gets what they want (look at the 
structure of the S and you will see that it is open in the upper curve and open in 
the lower curve; this leaves it exposed and even vulnerable to all influences, both 
positive and negative). Extremely attractive to the opposite sex, this essence can 
easily become involved in several affairs, often with disastrous results. 

While the S is pursuing their objective—be it romance, work, or anything else 
—the power of their natural seductiveness, grace, and charm allows the S to 
realize their aspirations. The S is a self-starter, a philanthropist, very active, 
exceptionally talented and artistic (which is sometimes ignored or undervalued), 
and has tremendous potential as an actor or entertainer of some type. The true S 
seems to sing and dance to their own tune. They do exactly as they please, when 
they please, and how they please. Independence is important to the S, and since 
they value their freedom above all and dislike orders of any kind, they are best 
left to work alone. The S sees what needs to be done and is capable of doing it, if 
they so choose. 

The S/3 energy, which is a combination of charming and seductive and slick 
and secretive, can present an energy that is almost hypnotic—this is, without a 
doubt, the smooth operator of the letter energies. Again, the potency of this 
description will depend upon the other energies present in the name, but, 
generally speaking, if there is an abundance of S energies in the name of your 
paramour, for example, you will likely find yourself under an alluring spell or 
witness to the results thereof at some point. If you sport an abundance of the S 
energy, be aware of your potentials and charms and use them wisely. 

Since the S relies on the senses to get what they want, their lesson should not 
be hard to grasp. The S (perhaps more so than any other letter energy) needs to 
learn that there is an additional sense to the five they use so regularly, which is, 
of course, the intuition, or the sixth sense. Once this is absorbed, the next step 
would be to acknowledge that there is more to the picture than the eye can see. 


The senses sex versus spirit meta physics. This pretty much sums up the 
situation for the S and anyone involved with someone with an S or two in their 
name. 

One more tiny detail: the S is the “Symbol of $uccess.” However, the S will 
only experience true and lasting success once they move away from the instant 
gratification found in the world of earthbound senses. This energy, like many 
others, needs to look beyond the physical body in order to view their true nature 
or soul. 


Traditional Descriptions 
The S person is usually energetic, social, charming, enticing, eloquent, 


sensual/sexual, artistic, persuasive, adaptable, imaginative, mysterious, and 
confident. More negative descriptives of the S can include devious, sneaky, 
nefarious, unfaithful, manipulative, flighty, shallow, and untrustworthy. 


Cornerstones 
The following words all reflect the connection to the senses: Sing, Scream, 
Shudder, Shriek, Scent, Sex, Sad, Shaking, Shock, Schizophrenia, and Slumber. 


As a Current Energy Phase 

There is a challenge present in the 3-year span of the S and it can come in the 
form of using every possible manner of approach in order to get something or 
somewhere, whether that be a person, place, or thing. There may be moral and 
ethical dilemmas as well since this energy is often sensual, sexual, and self- 
gratifying in nature and can experience temptations or lures that can be 
overwheming in intensity. It can also refer to a time of awakening, again, of the 
additional sense, and thus can refer to the opening of the “inner ear.” The 
challenge presented is one of mind over matter: mind in this case pertaining to 
spirituality and matter pertaining to the base instincts of man. This phase often 
presents a choice between the two. 


T (Value of 4): The Plus Sign (+) 


The T holds a number of important characteristics, not the least of which is its tie 
to the cross, and thereby religious and spiritual beliefs. Its essence is explained 
quite well by the plus sign (which has no connection to the Chaldean Letter T, 
rather it refers to the common symbol for mathematical addition as well as to 
obvious religious or spiritual connections): it takes that which comes before and 
intensifies it—the nature of the plus sign is to “add to.” 

The T is curious about everything. It wants to see more, know more, have 
more, and experience more. If it is the Cornerstone of a word, it generally hits 
the ground running. Think about a triathlon or a moving train. Because the T 
holds the energy of addition, it must have a focus, or a base from which to begin, 
and is fortunate to be valued by the firm and foundational number 4—a 
welcome, supportive element to potentially unfocused or excessive T energy. 
For example, if two Ts appear side by side, it is usually indicative of too much 
going on at the same time, of inner emotions building up, and of pressure 
mounting. This would translate into someone with too much going on in their 
life and no method or desire to release stress or simplify circumstances. The 
double T character will often find themselves feeling “bottled up” and frustrated 
for whatever reasons. If the T won’t talk, they will become toxic and uneven, 
resulting, almost inevitably, in a toxic meltdown (not an explosion normally— 


the T is too quiet). A sub meaning attached to the T is the image of an umbrella: 
this character is quite protective of themselves and of those they love, but it can 
be difficult for the T to open up and reveal their thoughts and feelings. It would 
be a wise move for a multiple T to talk, to share, and to reveal their inner 
tumultuousness in regular “decompression sessions” designed to relieve stress (a 
word that holds the S of the senses, the “adder” of the T, the testing energy of 
the R, the emphasizing energy of the E, and a double dose of more senses ... the 
end result would read as an overload of the senses, which is pretty much what 
stress amounts to). 

Names that begin with T should be aware that they will need to pick attention 
points and stick to them, or they will literally bounce from one subject to 
another, one place to another, or one person to another. Or all three. 

On a more positive note, being grounded by the solid and responsible number 
4 keeps the T battling the odds, keeps it going, and provides a firm foundation 
from which to operate. Taking this square foundation one step further, imagine 
that square foundation in the shape of a box, unfolded on its sides and lying flat 
on the surface. What do you see? The cross (or plus sign) is one of the ancient 
symbolic connections to the cross of Jesus and the weight of his burden. This 
secret letter within the foundations of the 4 is representative of the potential for 
higher learning, or access to spiritual truths. The T takes their responsibilities 
very seriously and can often feel weighed down—the opened cross box speaks to 
the need to unburden the self. To this end, the T really needs a partner with 
whom the load can be shared and spirituality explored. 

If left alone for too long, this energy can become susceptible to feeling 
frustrated, oppressed, and incomplete. Some extremely negative behavior can be 
expected from a frustrated and toxic T, and the key for the T, quite simply, is to 
lay down the weight they carry. Atlas might be able to bear the world upon his 
shoulders—mere mortals cannot. The main challenge for the T is to lighten up 
by discarding grudges, guilts, and imagined or assumed responsibilities, which 
can be difficult because of the inherent stubbornness of the 4. 


Traditional Descriptions 
Typical descriptives include curious, investigative, protective, helpful, active, 


intellectual, and progressive. Negative T energies can be unfocused, unreliable, 
high-strung, illogical, unpredictable, scattered, and emotionally unstable. 


Cornerstones 
The following words all show the “additional” nature of the T quite clearly: Tall, 
Time, Tip, Tension, Tax, Tide, Temper, Terrible, Terror, Tornado, and 


Temptation. 


As a Current Energy Phase 

The transit of the T will depend upon whether it stands by itself, or if a letter 
stands before it. In the latter case, the T will intensify the energy of the letter that 
comes before, like it did in “stress”; alternately, it can add to the energy of the E 
in Eternity, and so on. The run of the T/4 will center around responsibility and 
routine, however, depending upon its placement, it could indicate a time of many 
interests; if an E follows a T, this is pretty much guaranteed. Alternately, if the T 
stands as a Cornerstone (Time, Total, Tax), this indicates an energy of extension, 
of multiplication, of “adding to.” The T is the unknown element: it may go this 
way, or that, it may come in or go out, it has so many potentialities that it can 
often be a time of unfocused energies, restlessness, and varied interests. 
However, the nature of this energy can also reveal unexpected surprises, which 
can be a good thing. Or a bad thing. Or both. 


U (Value of 6): The Cup 


And here we have yet another fascinating energy. Simple, yet convoluted. It is at 
once the cup of receptivity and the cup of limitations. Ruled by the loving 
number 6 and highly influenced by the “water” of emotions, this cup with its 
rounded base is very prone to tipping; its overall state of being relies on a 
delicate balance—one element that swings the wrong way can cause catastrophic 
emotional upset. If the U phase is encountered early in life, events during that 
phase will form the root for later levels of emotional equilibrium, so it may take 
a lot or a little into its “cup” before succumbing—it is the mess it makes 
afterwards that is worthy of note. 

The cup is dual in nature: it is extremely sensitive and desires closeness, yet it 
is ill equipped to handle serious sentiment. Pictured with its two beseeching 
arms reaching upwards, the U will try to defend itself, building walls and 
defenses against its perceived weakness. This often manifests as dual 
personalities: two distinctly different sides to the character. One will be warm, 
cheerful, and loving; the other chilly, critical, and untouchable. Two sides of a 
coin, or, in this case, extremes of emotion. Anyone involved with a dominant 
and negative U may become used to feeling both loved and labeled 


simultaneously. An unpleasant, uncomfortable, and unhappy feeling, to be sure. 

The U is also representative of a conduit or a plug. It holds the potential to 
change or alter energy that passes through its reaching antennae, or arms. Like 
the Universe, it is a series of energies coursing through channels, which have the 
ability to unplug and undo, or to jump start and ignite. It is a change in direction 
and flow. To put it simply, it is the U-turn: like turns into lust, metal into rust, 
and dreams into dust. It also turns winds into hurricanes, dry spells into 
droughts, tremors into quakes, and calm waters into tsunamis. It is the verdict of 
the judge, the sentence of the jury, and the finality of the undertaker. The dual 
nature of the U may also be depicted by an excellent public speaker who is 
unable to communicate on a personal level, or the individuality of the baby 
inside the mother who is still connected to her by virtue of the uterus and 
umbilical cord. There are always two sides to the U, some shown, some not. The 
uncommunicative U will often have an alternate outlet for their emotions like 
painting, yoga, tai chi, singing in a choir, or jumping out of planes. 

Obviously, it is also representative of horseshoes, which are used for 
protection, deflection, and plain good luck. We throw them at poles in a game of 
the same name, and a horse is not properly attired without them. 

The entry energy of the U is maintaining careful balance—it can be unsteady, 
uneasy, unsure, uneven, plus an unnervingly long list of other “un” words. “Un” 
essentially means “not.” Not ready, not willing, not able. It is an unsettled 
vibration, resting on a precariously balanced base. However, the saving grace of 
this energy is its numeric ruler: the love force of the domestic 6. I suppose the 
luck of the horseshoe doesn’t hurt, either. Together, they may offer enough 
positivity to the U to allow a relatively sustainable balance. However, betrayal or 
broken trust causes the most pain to the U energy and is the main cause of 
tippage—if hurt or maligned in this way, the U will topple and flow like a dam 
released, and the resulting flood of emotional pain could drown even an Olympic 
swimmer. Once emptied, however, the U regains their balance and carries on. 
But they do not forget. 

In a nutshell, the U will show the world calm control even while masking an 
emotional turmoil. This turmoil will peek through the mask as spots of 
jumpiness, tension, and a sense of things not being as they seem. 


The negative side to the U is rooted to its emotional issues—if left 
unexpressed for long periods, the U can seek outlets in inappropriate ways. 
Some ways will be relatively harmless, like going “underground” for a while. 
The seriously unstable and upset U can become unhinged, which is where these 
words come in: cruel and unusual, abusive, ugly, hurt, and murder. 


Traditional Descriptions 
Typical descriptives for the U include warm, calm, friendly, social, helpful, 


efficient, loyal, patient, and domestic. A negative U can be evasive, judgmental, 
duplicitous, sarcastic, distant, and secretive. I suppose it goes without saying that 
the U can also be emotionally unstable. 


Cornerstones 
The following words all show a channeling and focusing of energy: Union, 


University, Understanding, Universe, Umbilical, and Urban. Any words with 
“un” as a prefix confirm the shifting or opposing (will or won’t, yes or no, left or 


right) energy of the U. 


As a Current Energy Phase 

The 6-year phase of the U is one of emotional intensity, potential instability, 
changes in direction, and possibly negative formative experiences. It is a time of 
falling in and out of love, and finding or being separated from people, places, or 
things that are loved. It is also a time of luck which, when combined with 
emotional issues, could make for a rather confusing but hopefully entertaining 
phase. 


V (Value of 6): Victory 


The V is the sign of peace and the victory salute and is connected to Venus. It is 
the mate to the A in that ancient symbolism regarded the A as a male, phallic 
energy and the V as the virginal female. As such, it also refers to the vessel that 
carries life. 

Appropriately, it is the only letter to refer to marriage and the search for the 
perfect mate. Look at the V as two separate lines that have been pulled together 
at the base. These two lines illustrate the coming together of two people, places, 
or things. It is a “coming together, working together, and succeeding together” 
type of vibration. Similar to the U, the V is valued by the love number 6 and, 
because of its pointed base, it also struggles to maintain balance in emotional 
affairs. The difference between the U and the V is in the arms. While the U 
reaches up to protect, defend, and ask for help, the V reaches up in a determined 
and focused search for spiritual truth. (Remember the rabbit ears that used to sit 
atop your television? That vertical image is an ideal representation of the V 
seeking information, data, and messages on an ongoing basis.) This reaching up 
with love as its root motivator represents a desire for unity, for togetherness, and 
for victorious connections—something that goes beyond the connections 
between two people: it is larger than that. This connection, or desire for one, is 
what keeps the V on balance and able to connect to its emotions in a way that the 
U is unable. It is lifting itself up from the Earth plane in an attempt to reach 
higher and, as a result, the weight on its base is very light. V/6 will feel the need, 
if open and developed, to heed an inner voice that calls to create, or build, 
something of value to the people. The V will strive to achieve on an ongoing 


basis and will generally succeed at whatever goals they have set for themselves. 
The V is strongly tied to the belief that all life is sacred and, therefore, that one 
shalt not kill—anything or anyone for any reason. These folks are the type you 
will find trapping large, hairy spiders or other creepy crawlers in jars and 
releasing them back into the garden rather than killing them. They are truly 
gentle souls to whom killing is abhorrent. If their charts include power numbers 
that allow emotional distancing concerning matters of life and death or pain and 
suffering, they will make fantastic doctors, veterinarians, nurses, health-care 
workers, vicars, and holistic healers. 

In a person, the prominent V will reflect a tireless worker, a highly 
intellectual, inventive, and intuitive soul with a good heart and the genuine 
desire to please. This energy generally mixes well with others and is usually a 
delight to work for or with. When the V finds its true mate, there will be no other 
energy that will work harder at making a marriage (or friendship) last. They are 
loyal, straightforward, honest, loving, forgiving, and consistent. 

Of course, there is always the negative side. If the V’s true calling or nature is 
suppressed, they will obviously feel frustrated and depressed. The V will lash 
out at those closest to them and voila! The peaceful V can become verbose, 
vulgar, vile, vain, and even violent. They also play the victim quite well. But, 
overall, the V will overcome and prevail. They will emerge victorious. 


Traditional Descriptions 
Typical descriptives include ethical, conscientious, ambitious, fair, loyal, 


determined, nurturing, dedicated, and trustworthy. When undeveloped, the V can 
be materialistic, egocentric, selfish, vain, agnostic, unsympathetic, and 


unprincipled. 


Cornerstones 
The following words all indicate either victory or the loss of it: Verify, Validate, 


Veteran, Vaccine, Valor, Value, Vote, Vagrant, Vilify, Vulgar, Vigilante, and 
Vice. 


As a Current Energy Phase 
The 6-year run of the V is also one of emotional value because of the love 
connection of its ruler: the V/6 feels and expresses its love valiantly and visually. 
The V demonstrates its ruler of Venus through its values and viewpoints and its 
vibration is one of vigilance and victory. This is a time of sweet success, 
marriage, and peace. 

Of course, the V can also swing the other way and become a vain, vodka- 
swigging vigilante who spews venom. But that’s another story. 


W (Value of 6): Waterworks 


The W is the third and final letter energy with the numeric value of 6, or love. 
As with all of the 6 letters, its primary influence is water. Water is a profound 
symbol for emotions: we “cry us a river,” dismiss disagreements as “water under 
the bridge,” and find ourselves in “hot water” or dying to “get our feet wet.” We 
“wait for our ship to come in” and “hold our water” until it happens. The long 
and the short of the W is to be found in the small mountain in its center, 
bracketed by a pair of arms reaching up towards the heavens for help and 
guidance. As its value of 6 suggests, the W pertains to the emotional highs and 
lows, the peaks and valleys and waxing and waning of love, hate, and every 
emotion in between. It is pictured beautifully in the image of a child floating 
peacefully in the womb. All is undisturbed and protected until Mommy’s water 
breaks. 

Because of its ups and downs and strong connections to emotions, the W can 
also promote a desire to escape, which can and does take the shape of addiction. 
The W will most likely undergo a welcome awakening at some time because of 
its beseeching “arms”: after all, the divine power of Universe will not ignore a 
constant and unfailing request for assistance. 

The typical W energy is very likable. They make lifelong friends, are 
upstanding employees and neighbors, and are loyal and true to their mates. The 
W’s emotional aspect leaves them as susceptible to periods of happiness and 
wonder as they are to bouts of deep depression and worry. Their lesson is to find 
the small mountain in the center of the W’s energy and make that home base. 


Day trips can be made down into the valleys and up to the peaks, but since the 
valleys are dark and damp and the peaks are hot and airless, the happy medium 
is to be found in the middle and is where the wise will be found. Which is 
another way of saying that a safe, warm, welcoming, and loving home is 
necessary for the W—they need a place that is solid and dependable into which 
they can withdraw. 

The W is truly the water of love and their soul truly seeks the highest level 
they can reach while residing on this Earth plane. The wonderful thing about a 
balanced W is that the holder will also be refreshingly normal and down-to-earth 
—even through sometimes traumatic events—and they literally love the Earth. 
This vibration enjoys nature and will spend as much time as possible outdoors, 
for this revitalizes the soul. 


Traditional Descriptions 

Overall descriptions of the W include adaptable, caring, committed, direct, 
genuine, faithful, loyal, dependable, and objective. A negative W can be 
obsessive, uncommunicative, depressed, perplexing, distant, wishy-washy, and 


addictive. 


Cornerstones 
The following words all relate either to water, emotions, or different levels (as in 


up and down): Waves, Wash, Wet, Well, Wade, Whale, Wharf, Weep, Wail, 
Wallow, Worry, Weight, Wage, and Window. 


As a Current Energy Phase 

This final transit of the 6 value is the most understated of the three (U, V, W). 
Although it has the closest ties to water, it is also the most balanced. Emotional 
highs and lows abound; however, the W is protected in a way that the U and V 
are not. Its energy is centered in the middle of the letter in the peak between the 
arms, and usually feels safe, even through upheavals. This type of vibration is a 
more spiritual one; hence it is more personal than others. This phase concerns 
spiritual growth through physical experiences. Consequently, this transit is like 
riding the proverbial roller coaster of emotions—the highest of highs are paid for 
by the lowest of lows. But the process also affords moments of spiritual insight 
that help to form the deep and enduring character of the strong W. 


X (Value of 5): X Factor 


In the X, we find a multiple being. It symbolizes adding to, multiplying, crossing 
out and the end of the line. This character can be a signature or an indication of 
an error in judgment or behavior; it can serve as warnings and attention symbols 
on a variety of products including poisons and prescription drugs (Rx). It speaks 
of upcoming railway crossings and wrong ways to go. It is the “X factor” or 
unknown quantity/quality that played a part, for example, in determining how 
many males versus females (X chromosomes) make up “generation X.” This 
same X factor will dictate whether you are the right candidate for the role or the 
job and can also keep the dedicated mathematician scratching his head for hours 

. or longer. It is the X button that closes computer screen boxes on X-rated 
sites. X marks the spot, tells you where you are (as in “you are here”), and 
reveals the locations of (supposedly) buried treasures. 

On a more religious note, like its sibling T, X speaks to the cross of Jesus and 
refers to the name of Christ (Xmas) and cores down to as you sow, so shall you 
reap. Justice plays a part in the X: it will either become the cross by which we 
are resurrected (or given a second chance), or the cross whose weight we will 
have to bear. 

The X breaks barriers, creates new dimensions and is open to new experiences 
and multiple realities (the Matrix). The X displays vulnerability by virtue of its 


open sides, yet it is the most perfectly balanced letter in the alphabet. It retains 
its shape no matter how it is turned. This reflects the influence of its numeric 
value of 5 which, despite being ruled by change, the senses, communication, and 
the need for freedom, is also steady at its core. 

However, in name form the X is highly impressionable, vulnerable, 
changeable (due to its propensity to multiply and add on), and naturally 
progressive and active. Because of several somewhat-crooked Y forms within its 
structure, it can find making decisions a difficult prospect; there are quite a 
number of “hidden” forks in the road. 

The X can easily become excessive, exhausted, exhilarated, exhibitionistic, or 
subject to many other versions of emotions or actions. Now we are into the base 
nature of the X, as in SEX. The X stands with its arms spread apart and seeking 
while its legs are held wide enough for a metaphorical truck to drive through. To 
say that the X is kind of interested in sensual pastimes would be like saying the 
ocean is kind of wet. 

My take on the X is one of unexpected developments or unanticipated events 
and sometimes of pushing the envelope. The X holds an element of mystery, 
which is one of the reasons this particular letter captures my imagination and 
obviously entertains others as well—it could be the reason that the X-Files is still 
seen in syndication worldwide. 

A person carrying the X factor will be unpredictable, fascinating, and curious 
about everything—this energy enjoys exploring the unknown or untried. The X 
is adventurous, impulsive, and prone to regretting previous actions, but the regret 
will be on the inside and will be caused by unhealthy alliances and deeds. This 
type of X will crucify themselves privately while smiling publicly. 

The X is all about the road to take and the road best left untraveled. It is 
spiritual retribution for yielding to temptations, a difficult position for this 
energy as temptations excite the investigative and exploratory nature of the X. 


Traditional Descriptions 
Typical descriptives include adventurous, receptive, progressive, independent, 


artistic, nonjudgmental, curious, and magnetic. More negative X energies can be 
impulsive, excessive, addictive, careless, and self-destructive. 


Cornerstones 
All of the following words or abbreviations offer a glimpse of the rare X factor: 
X-ray, X-rated, XTC, XY (male chromosome), and XX (female chromosome). 


As a Current Energy Phase 

The 5-year span of the X leaves the holder open to anything and anyone. It is 
growth and expansion, although not always in positive ways or down positive 
paths. This is a time of enticement, of provocation, and of luring, which is 
directly influenced by the freedom-seeking senses of the 5. The desire to 
question and to take action is sometimes strong enough to overcome reservations 
and can lead to situations never expected. If the holder of the X is strong enough 
to be highly selective in their explorations, they can indeed enjoy this vibration 
to its fullest. The trick is to not allow the sinner without to out-shout the saint 
within. Due care and attention would be the order of the day during an X phase. 
For 5 years, of course. 


Y (Value of 1): Fork in the Road 


Let’s pretend that you are alone and driving to Aunt Bessie’s house in the 
country. You have only been there once when you were little and since you were 
positive you would not need a map (you’ve always been highly intuitive), you 
didn’t bring one. You did bring your cell phone, but since Aunt Bessie is deaf 
and antisocial, she doesn’t have a phone, but you can always call your mom. 
You are quickly running out of gas as you have made many false starts down 
many wrong roads. The sun is sinking into the horizon and what light remains 
shows identical fields rolling away from you in all directions, like gentle dark 
waves. You reach a well-defined fork in the road. The road to the left is 
apparently well used. The one on the right, perhaps less so. There is only one 
thing missing and that would be a signpost. The sun sinks even lower. The 
shadows grow. Your engine sputters and coughs. You try to call your mom for 
directions but can’t get a signal on the cell. The battery light comes on, and you 
didn’t bring your charger. You need to make a decision, and you need to make it 
soon. Left or right? 

The Y is a change in direction. Sometimes it is a choice you voluntarily make; 
sometimes it is a choice or direction made for you. For example, you exist 
because of a long-ago fork in the road, or a decision made for you by the 
winners of the X/Y chromosome game your parents were engaged in playing 


long ago: the X placed the basic game plan on the table, but the Y threw options 
into the picture. The end of the game produced you. 

To give you a further idea of the Y energy, the word “yesterday” is bracketed 
by the Y, which allows it to encompass all aspects of one direction (to the left, or 
past) and all aspects of the other (to the right, or into the future). If you have a Y 
in your name, you will likely find that you are forced or choose to change 
directions in your life more often than your average neighbor. The Y is also open 
to different ways of living and thinking and is often just as curious about the 
metaphysical as it is the scientific. The lesson of the Y/1 is to take the “rougher” 
road, or to take a risk and pursue the spiritual and creative side of life rather than 
the sensual and material one, a lesson which is oft repeated in the symbols of the 
alphabet. Luckily, the Y is also connected to intuition and psychic flashes, which 
can come in awfully handy if one is caught in an unusual or threatening 
situation. 

Another (seemingly unfortunate) aspect of the Y is that it separates. In human 
terms, that translates into different relationships coming to an end through 
various means such as death (a transit marked, oddly enough, by the formation 
of the letter Y on the chest after an autopsy), divorce, imposed distances, or 
simply “losing touch.” The Y can also manifest as an alternate lifestyle, chosen 
or imposed. This can be the eccentric loner, the psychopath living in a deserted 
motel, or the artist living in a psychedelic world. This can also present itself as 
having to live with a physical disability or dysfunction and the potential for 
spiritual growth that such a condition can pose. 

What is likely is that someone with a Y in their name will be “different.” They 
will either live with imposed issues that offer no choice in the lifestyle or 
voluntarily choose a “different” way of living or experiencing life. If you are 
living with or are a Cornerstone Y, expect your life to change directions fairly 
often. The 1 energy that supports the Y will afford a strength and determination 
to follow through on paths chosen or dictated, but at the end of the road, the path 
of the Y will show a long line of twists, turns, switchbacks, sharp corners, and 
might look more like a map of a country than the history of a life. 

On a more mundane or “normal” level, the Y phase can herald a change in 
careers or a new job, moving into a new home, getting married, or the birth of a 


child. Remember that even within the mundane scenarios, the Y often presents 
the unexpected—so the above scenarios could also arrive as being fired from 
your job, evicted from your home, served divorce papers, or finding yourself 
dealing with an unexpected pregnancy. Again, because of the inestimable 
number 1, these changes can both be challenging and beneficial in the long run. 

An ideal imagery for the two aspects or directions is demonstrated quite nicely 
in the contemplation of yin and yang. The two halves of the whole. The feminine 
and the masculine; two different entities that come together to create perfect 
balance. Yesterday would not exist without today. Yes would not exist without 
no. A year would not exist without 12 months, nor would a yard without 3 feet. 
One yo would not be complete without another yo (as in yo-yo,) which in and of 
itself incorporates opposing directions, up and down, or even left to right. An 
egg is not an egg without its yoke ... something that allows the development of a 
chick. The twisting of the body into different directions is commonly known as 
yoga and is designed to create a peaceful and limber body, mind, and soul. 

Almost predictably, a familiar challenge is part of its energy. Which path to 
take? The logical, practical, safe one, or the one promising risk, mystery, and 
revelation? Material reality pits itself against spiritual truth once more. 

Finally, the Y is also the divining rod. So if you are still sitting there in your 
truck, get out and find a long branch with a forked end. Hold the forked end 
loosely in both hands and stand at the crossroads. Aim the branch down one 
road, then the other. If the stick pulls downwards at any point, that is either the 
direction to take or the location of underground water. So, unless you are thirsty, 
get back in your truck and go forth and prosper. 


Traditional Descriptions 
Typical descriptives include intuitive, reflective, curious, pioneering, adaptable, 
confident, original, and intelligent. Some negatives are indecisive, timid, 


confused, impulsive, and aimless. 


Cornerstones 
All of the following words point to different directions or components: Yeast, 
Yacht, Yank, Yield, Yearn, Yell, Yes, Yin/Yang, Yummy, and Yucky. 


As a Current Energy Phase 
This 1-year transit is fairly straightforward. A decision or choice will be made. 
This will be a voluntary or forced choice, which has the potential to change 
directions and circumstances in life. This will manifest as anything from entering 
a convent to going to medical school to moving to Siberia. Of course, normal 
situations involving the Y are more common: a change in personal relationship 
status, a change of job or home—the point here is that this energy holds a change 
in lifestyle and content and if a choice is involved, the ultimate decision should 
be based on what the intuition dictates. 

If you have one or more Y energies in your name, simply changing the Y to an 
I will not change your Whole Name Number as both numbers are ruled by the 
number 1, but it will remove the “fork in the road” essence and replace it with a 
highlighted intuitive sense. 


Z (Value of 7): Zap! 

Although it is reversed in shape, the Z always reminds me of a lightning bolt and 
the letter N on its side. The two letters are linked in that they are both 
interlocked double 7s, and both are highly intuitive and intellectually brilliant 
energy conduits that I often see as high voltage. In the case of the Z, which is 
ruled by the 7, the lightning, zigzag, electric energy connects to the mouth and 
what comes out of it; but, the Z is not concerned with editing itself: what comes 
out of its mouth is unvarnished and blunt. Z is the master of the spoken word, 
and it uses this mastery to hurt or heal, sometimes without deliberate intent 
either way. The Z can be the public speaker, the writer, the teacher, the 
politician, or the convincing liar. The difference between this letter and another 
vocal energy (C) is that the Z speaks not only when they should shut up, but they 
insist on speaking even after they have been told to shut up. The Z considers 
themselves the conveyer of facts (even when they are flat-out wrong), and 
nothing will stop the Z from having their say. 

Here is an incredibly smart person who, sometimes, does not pause to think of 
the impact of his or her words before launching them. This person could also be 
perfectly suited to telling tales out of school, in school, or anywhere else, for that 


matter. Lies also come as easily as gossip to the unenlightened Z. The 
surrounding letters and the effects of same are emphatically important and will 
dictate how far any Z in question will go. 

A positive Z, one who has mastered the challenge of the 7 (which is to focus 
on the spiritual and metaphysical as opposed to the logical and practical) will 
hold their audience enthralled and in awe of the words they speak and can prove 
hysterically funny. A negative Z, one who tends to speak strictly from the cold, 
hard platform of logic will hold their audience captive as well—their magnetism 
serves to attract and hold a basically unwilling, yet curious group of onlookers. 

Because of their propensity to analyze everything in their realm, the Z also 
makes a great problem solver or detective. They also do extraordinarily well in 
scholarly and mental pursuits. Due to their analytical and controlling nature, the 
undeveloped or Cornerstone Z is not usually good marriage material; however, 
should a Z develop into the deeply spiritual person their triple 7 values offer, 
they will find it difficult to even find someone they can relate to on an intimate 
and esoteric level, but should it become so, this will be a union made in Heaven 
or somewhere nearby. 

On the rather humorous side, the Z is full of zeal and zest and as a result, 
needs to zone out from time to time. In other words, the typical Z needs its 
ZZZs. 


Traditional Descriptions 
Typical descriptives show the positive Z as eloquent, confident, direct, 


humorous, quick, resourceful, investigative, and dedicated. Negative Z energy 
can appear as insensitive, brash, impatient, offensive, deceptive, and critical. 


Cornerstones 
The following words all refer to a sharp energy or a certain level of energy: Zap, 
Zing, Zoom, Zip, Zany, Zealous, Zen, Zero, Zenith, Zoned, and Zombie. 


As a Current Energy Phase 

The 7-year reign of the Z is one of intellectualized mastery of the spoken word. 
This is a time of scholarly pursuits, investigations into mysteries, and analytical 
processing. Such data-processing ability creates formidable lawyers, politicians, 
and detectives. The lesson for the 2 involves understanding that the words they 
speak and the manner in which they are spoken can be creative or destructive. 
The choice then becomes whether to use words as weapons or to use words as a 
balm for healing. 


Test Yourself 

All you need to do is remember these particular (and peculiar) phrases. Here’s 
the list. Test yourself, because remembering the meanings of the numbers and 
which letters are connected to them is one of the more important steps in 
learning to read names. 

Number 1: 1 Angry Queen Yells In Jail (1=A, Q, Y, I, J) 

Number 2: 2 Big, Red Kisses (2=B, R, K) 

Number 3: 3 Grey Cats Lick Sauce (3=G, C, L, S) 

Number 4: 4 Drunk Men Talking (4=D, M, T) 

Number 5: 5 Nurses X-ray Harry’s Eye (5=N, X, H, E) 

Number 6: 6 Voluptuous Union Workers (6=V, U, W) 

Number 7: 7 (the land of) OZ (7= O, Z) 

Number 8: 8 Fair Politicians (8=F, P) 

Number 9: not applicable 


... Whatever words we utter should be chosen with care for people will hear 
them and be influenced by them for good or evil... 

—Siddhartha Gautama, founder of Buddhism 

(circa 563—483 BCE) 


[contents] 


five 


Chaldean Numerology 
and Today’s 
Spiritual Seekers 


Spiritual Beliefs ... Then and Now 

he Chaldeans believed in the Divine power and were therefore very 

spiritual; much of their time was devoted to awareness of their surroundings 
and the communications held in all manner of daily events (something we might 
today refer to as observing omens and symbolism). Their task while here on 
Earth was to spread spiritual and metaphysical knowledge using the combined 
mediums of mathematics, astronomy, astrology, numerology, divination, music, 
medicine, and other systems we likely know nothing about. Regarded as 
soothsayers and prophets, 
the Chaldeans worshiped a God who was responsible 
for the “Energy Behind All Things,” which was represented by the symbol of a 
half-moon nestled within the circle of the sun. Although their culture involved a 
variety of lesser gods, their supreme devotion was reserved for this one Energy 
God, the Sun, or, to my way of seeing it, the Source. This theme of observing, 
respecting, and working with energies and symbols runs through the very fabric 
of the legacy these ancient people left behind and is especially evident in their 
numerology system. 

While no one can speak for these long-gone people, I think it is safe to say that 
the energy they honored and the spiritual practices they observed are core to the 
practice and gift of Chaldean numerology. I also believe they would agree with 
the following views and methods of tapping into the spiritual and arcane aspects 
of our existence. 


But First, a Wake-Up Call 


Do you believe that there is something more to this reality than meets the eye? 
Do you believe that there just might be another element at play: a power energy 
we cannot see, touch, smell, or hear, but one that is there nonetheless? Since you 
are reading this book, I would hazard a guess that you might say yes—or at least 
maybe. That means you are part of a growing number of people the world over 
who are “waking up” and realizing that there must be more to this life than mere 
existence followed by death. The concept of us as spirits having human 
experiences has taken firm root and is growing in massive leaps and bounds, 
which in turn has created an ever-increasing group of “students” in search of 
higher learning, which would make you and I classmates. Our teacher is known 
by many names, such as the Divine, the Source, Universe, or God; but no matter 
the name, the energy we seek to learn from and connect with is one and the same 
—that of divine wisdom, unconditional love, and unlimited knowledge. 

While anyone can sign up, there are two major prerequisites for this “course,” 
which anyone can do. One concerns your belief systems, and the other concerns 
who you are and what you have done. Let’s look at the first one, the simplest of 
the two. I have found that folks either do believe or don’t believe; there is rarely 
a gray area. Believing (or having Faith) is really not a difficult choice, but in 
terms of spiritual growth and education, it is an extremely important one. 
Without Faith or belief, you will wander through this life without an inner base 
or support system. Nothing will mean very much—not in a lasting way. 

So the first prerequisite is that you must be willing to accept something that 
you cannot see and know that its energies are a constant in your life in one way 
or another and that you can tap into those energies should you choose to. 

You must also have a personal history that includes elements of the following: 
good deeds, bad deeds, and very bad deeds. You must have both positive and 
negative qualities. You must even have one or two skeletons rattling around in 
your closet. Essentially, you must be a human being and possess all or some of 
the human foibles shared by us as a race. 

Why? 

Well, because the second prerequisite is the willingness to accept yourself and 
all of your foibles as being perfectly intended. This requires a complete and total 
concession to the idea that your life history and everything in it was and is a part 


of your lesson—your Lifepath—the reason you are here, and it centers around 
the things you are here to learn this time around, just like everyone else. 
Chaldean numerology teaches us that we are not perfect; otherwise, it would not 
be filled with spiritual content—messages of wisdom and personal motivation 
that are specifically designed for the spiritual seeker. The fact is that you must be 
prepared to accept that you are not perfect and were never intended to be. 

You came here with a specific gift and armed with a type of “blueprint” 
(found in your name and date of birth) that lays out the overall directions you are 
ideally to take while here on this Earth plane. You do have, like all of us, free 
will and can choose your own direction, but it will rarely lead you to places you 
truly want to be; rather, it will run you in ragged circles, (mis)lead you down a 
variety of very pretty garden paths or maybe right into the heart of the deepest, 
wildest, and most savage of jungles. But the point here is that while we do have 
room to move and the parameters of our Lifepaths are loosely structured, you 
must be willing to follow the guideposts set up for you. But since nothing is set 
in stone, it is your choice whether you follow the path recommended, take a 
shortcut, or go somewhere else entirely. My suspicion, however, is again tied to 
the fact that you are reading this book—something deep inside of you wants to 
travel the road recommended. 

It does sound appealing, right? To relax into who we really are: to completely 
and utterly accept ourselves as beings of both weaknesses and strengths who are 
perfectly intended and therefore free from the need to assign or burden ourselves 
with guilt, self-sabotage, anger, frustration, and all the other negative and 
prohibitive human emotions and reactions. We will, of course, still experience 
those moments of sheer emotion that will overwhelm us, but knowing that we 
are perfectly intended allows us to both succeed and fail at the same time—at 
anything and as often as we need to in order to learn the specific lesson attached 
to the specific energy occurrence. 

This way of looking at things may read as overly simplistic, and perhaps it is, 
but once you truly know that you are not alone—that we are all interconnected; 
that there is indeed an unnamed, unknown, but very real Energy that exists 
beyond our understanding and that everything is just as it should be—you will 
naturally discover Faith as well. For me, Faith feels paternal, like a “Father” who 


is protecting me. I may not always fathom why certain things happen in my life, 
but even through the trauma and the drama, I knew that everything was 
happening the way it was supposed to and that I didn’t need to know why. I just 
needed to have Faith that I would make it through—and I always did make it 
through, sometimes in absolutely amazing, unbelievable, and even miraculous 
ways ... and it was, without a doubt, because of my Faith, my belief—call it 
what you will. All I know is that, like the Chaldean system, it works. 

Don’t expect things to change overnight once you have “woken up.” If you are 
anything like me, it will take you a bit of time to perk up. I was groggy and 
lethargic for the longest time. In fact, it took years of learning, reading, studying, 
practicing, sharing, listening, and drinking lots of coffee before I could say that I 
was almost fully conscious. I say “almost” because there is always more to see, 
more to hear, more to learn, and more to investigate. Each day brings new 
revelations about the depths and heights this awakening can reach, and it will 
never end. And so it is for you, too. So it is for all of us. 


Energy Is Everything and Everything Is Energy 

The Chaldeans considered all things in, on, and beyond this Earth as forms of 
energy, which is the core of their numerology system. Having said that, let’s pull 
back a little bit and zoom out into space. From a vantage point high above the 
Earth, we can look down and see our gorgeous blue, green, tan, and white world 
below us. What we are also looking at are grids; some visible, some not. One is 
electrical in nature and can be seen when the skies are dark and the Cities of 
Light shine, while the others are invisible. The most obvious of these is the 
World Wide Web. This grid holds both positive and negative ramifications: it 
totals to Master 33, which calls for some manner of sacrifice, and its Identity 
Initials are 666. Another invisible grid is formed by a series of what are known 
as Ley lines (straight lines that connect one sacred site to another—-sites like 
Stonehenge, the Pyramids, the Bermuda Triangle, and Easter Island, to name but 
a few); it is said that where these lines intersect, an immense power source 
resides. Still another grid is formed by our very own collective thought patterns 
and emotional emissions—a concept that has been tagged with the phrase “mass 
consciousness,” which is precisely what it is, and we all feed into it. 


All that we see below us is formed by one band of material energy (slow-or 
fast-moving molecules) or another: these overlying or intertwining grids can be 
viewed as a giant energy matrix that absolutely everything is a part of. Including 
you. 

You have undoubtedly heard of the butterfly effect. This theory says that a 
butterfly could flap its wings somewhere in Sweden and affect the weather 
systems across the world, even to the extent that it could cause a tornado in the 
Bahamas. It’s a long and complicated story and has strong connections to 
measurements (and therefore, mathematics), but the point is, again, that all 
things are energetically interconnected, from the tiniest detail to the largest, and 
that includes all of us. We are all energy forms interacting with other energy 
forms. Therefore, our thought-form energies, especially when strong and 
repetitive, will carry the cumulative potential to create any type of vibration, 
both positive and negative. That is up to us and the thoughts and words we 
choose to live by. On a larger scale, these same thoughts and words form a 
distinct if, again, invisible, energy matrix. In order for this metaphysical grid to 
function at peak performance, all aspects must be similar in content, for if but 
one significant bug climbs into the system, it will no longer function as a perfect 
whole or in perfect harmony. (Think about the energies of terrorists: their 
vibrations are not compatible with those of peace lovers, and therefore chaos is 
thrown into the matrix.) 

However, if your own work within this energy system is pure, you will attract 
only pure energies in return: you get out what you put in. Obviously, positive 
attracts positive and vice versa. If a butterfly’s wings can theoretically affect 
another part of the world in a major way, then we also affect it with our own 
“wings,” which are produced by the quality of our own thoughts, words, beliefs, 
and actions. 

Once there is the knowledge that we as a people hold an immense potential to 
alter our circumstances, then the revelation must be made that this potential 
begins with each of us as individuals. When this information is absorbed and 
understood, the tools that become available to us all are beyond the imagination 
—perhaps even beyond belief at this point. But everything is possible, given 
enough time, information, and need. You are part of a massive, multi-faceted 


energy grid. This grid functions perfectly and offers exact fulfillment of your 
thought instructions. One might say it is similar to the linear operation of a 
computer system: once you understand the applications and how to download 
and operate them, an incredible expanse of possibilities becomes your control 
panel and you become the creator of your own reality. For some, this may take 
many years of disciplined study, commitment, and practice, while for others, it 
may be as simple as deciding to commit to interests already long held, 
scrutinized, and ruminated upon. Many of us are working with energies in 
different ways and investigating its uses and magickal qualities—something I 
think the Chaldeans would relate to, understand, approve of, and encourage. 


Your Thoughts, Actions, 

and Words Carry Energy, Too 
There is energy in every action we take, in every word we speak, and in every 
thought we think. And for every action, word, and thought, there is a reaction 
and response. Assuming these actions, words, and thoughts are positive ones, the 
resulting reactions and responses will also be positive. Conversely, the opposite 
is also true—negative thoughts, actions, or words will produce negative energies 
and results. This goes to the Law of Attraction: the much-touted Law can be 
simplified into being truly and consistently aware of what you are thinking and 
saying and doing, knowing that the quality of our combined human thought 
energies can solidify into corresponding and perhaps worldwide consequences 
and circumstances. 

What you pay attention to, you will draw unto you. That means more than just 
thinking positive or negative thoughts; the contents of your thoughts are 
important, too. Many folks think they are applying the law of attraction correctly 
by pleading with Universe “please, no more bills!” Here’s the problem: Universe 
focuses on the thing mentioned in the request or thought, so if it is bills, 
Universe will comply and your mailbox will overflow with bills. If your focus 
on not “‘being broke all the time,” the word the Universe picks up on and 
responds to is “broke,” and you will continue to notice moths flying out of your 
open wallet. 

The nature of Universe is to create, so the structure and content of the 


“orders” you place (some have likened the Universe and the Law of Attraction to 
“placing orders” from a cosmic Catalog) is all-important and makes a huge 
difference in your results. In addition, there is also a difference between wanting 
and needing, so the most effective method of manifesting is to be motivated 
more by what you need than by what you want. Needs are necessary things; 
wants are desires that can often be based in greed or self-satisfaction (which is 
the voice of the ego). So, the next time you wish you didn’t have so many bills, 
focus on the need for “extra cash” instead. 

This connection extends to the physical condition of your body, as well. 
Negative and depressive thoughts materialize as ill energies, as does a thought 
that goes something like this: “I don’t want to get cancer.” Universe hears 
“cancer” and will attempt to give you what you’ve asked for, particularly if you 
worry or send out supportive thought patterns about it on a constant basis. (For 
example, for many years, my beloved Granny worried excessively about getting 
cancer and when, at a relatively young age, she died, cancer had taken over 
almost every organ in her body, almost as though she had thoroughly convinced 
Universe of her need without even realizing she had done so.) 

I am sure you have seen illness referenced as dis-ease. This means there is an 
imbalance of thought energies that can cause a body to become off-balance, or 
ill-at-ease. If emotional issues are left to ripen and fester within our psyches, 
chances are good that this toxic and destructive energy will negatively impact 
our bodies and solidify into all manner of maladies. This is yet another reason to 
become more aware of what you are thinking and how you are energetically 
“programming” your body. 

Your thoughts, words, and actions are “things” of substance. Becoming aware 
of the types of energies you are engaging and promoting will impact your life in 
direct correlation—good to good and bad to bad. Recognizing the differences, 
programming positivity, and “keeping the faith” can only assist in accelerating 
your spiritual progress and perhaps even in helping to improve the condition of 
your physical body as well. 


Your Emotions Are Energy— 
and One Is Like a Weed 


You know about the power of emotions, but what you might not think about is 
that they also carry and emit energies, and the more intense the emotion, the 
more intense the output. Can you remember a time when you went shopping and 
everyone seemed extra nice to you? Or another time when everyone seemed 
particularly grouchy? If you are honest with yourself, P1 bet a tiny, tinkling bell 
just rang somewhere in the back of your mind. The details are not important; the 
fact that an energy reflection took place is. Think about it further. Do you 
remember what kind of mood you were in on those days? 

Energy is energy and negative or heavy emotions are amongst the strongest in 
the human energy matrix. So how and what you project is what you will get 
back. Larger pictures of events and occurrences will project more potent and 
lasting energy impressions—seems like a good reason to become more aware of 
what we are projecting, right? But that’s not the main point of interest here. The 
one emotion we are the most afraid of is. 

Of all of our feelings, fear is the most intense; it can paralyze us like deer in 
the headlights. While it applies to a myriad of situations, some of which are 
protective and positive (like being scared of that dark figure down the alley), the 
ones that affect us in a more intimate way are found in the fear of two specific 
things: success and failure. While we might fear one more openly than the other, 
both run head to head, consciously or subconsciously. Since success and failure 
are two sides of the same coin, the only way we can achieve success is by openly 
embracing our fear of it and all that it entails. Failure can be experienced without 
success but success cannot be experienced without failure. Put another way, if 
everything you ever tried worked out perfectly every time, you would have no 
frame of reference by which to measure your success. Failure is a required 
element in order to experience and appreciate true success. We are all familiar 
with failures, perhaps quite a few of them, but what about successes? If you are 
like most regular people, you have had some triumphs and victories, but major 
successes? How many of those have you had? Can you say that you are 
comfortable financially? Can you say that you are doing what you love? If the 
answer to both is yes, then more power to you, but if you are like most of us, the 
answer is usually no. Would you like it to be, though? Obvious answer, right? 

The balance is clearly off when the overall picture is revealed. Stories about 


failures and lack and loss abound, but success stories are rarer, which is probably 
why they are celebrated when they do occur. There really are so many reasons 
for each of us to fear success that it would be literally impossible to even list 
them all, but one theme seems to be common and that is that once success is 
attained, what then? Have you ever heard the saying “you’re only as good as the 
last part you played, book you wrote, house/car/jury you sold”? How does one 
“better” success? How do we do it again? How do we sustain it? That is one of 
the core reasons that many people sabotage themselves. We are not afraid of 
succeeding—everyone loves to win! Rather, it is the fear of what happens 
afterwards that keeps us from getting there. To my way of thinking, success is 
what it is. Once it is gained, it is never lost, it simply moves into the past. And 
looking forward with inward eyes will reveal the next signpost, so it’s really just 
another stop along the way. 

Yet even with the best of intentions, fear is not an easy emotion to weed out. It 
often has extremely deep roots that are almost impossible to completely remove, 
kind of like dandelions—where you pull one out, three more sprout. So it is a bit 
of a struggle to gain control over this particular weed, but that is where having 
Faith that everything happens exactly as intended comes in again—as does your 
own acceptance that everything in this life has a purpose and that is to teach you 
something. So fear is just another learning curve and is therefore nothing to be 
afraid of. 

If we can get the idea behind “For Everything, A Reason” and hold on to our 
Faith, there is no sustainable reason for fear. The certainty of knowing we are 
connected to a higher element calms the mind and the soul—knowing that you 
are doing exactly the right thing at any time dilutes the fear of the unknown. And 
that is what fear is all about: the unknown. Fear is ego based, as in being afraid 
of not having enough or of losing what we do have—money, good health, good 
looks, work, love—you name it. Once we understand that we are not our bodies, 
we are spirits residing therein and that this world and its inhabitants are similar 
to students in a rather large classroom, we can learn to relax and await the arrival 
of the next teacher and the next lesson. 


... the only thing we have to fear is fear itself. 
—Franklin Delano Roosevelt, 1933 Inaugural Address 


Believe It or Not 

Equally important here is your level of belief (and this is true in all things 
metaphysical or spiritual): if you do not believe that you can tap into a source 
unseen, or even that there is one, you will not have access to its possibilities. 
Your ego-controlled doubt will stand solidly in your way. If you do feel a tickle 
of doubt, consider the air you are breathing this very minute. Try to touch it, 
taste it, hear it, see it, or smell it and you will be unable to do so. None of your 
senses are able to prove that the air exists, yet without it, you will die. Similarly, 
when the Sun disappears behind a moody sky or the Moon disappears from a 
clear one, we will swear on all we hold dear that both are still there—even 
though we can see neither. That is the essence of Faith—conviction on a deep 
gut level that something exists that we cannot see nor confirm with our human 
senses. We also know this energy is something we can connect to and that it will 
respond to our needs as proposed by our thoughts, words, and actions while also 
knowing our true needs and supplying that which is the most beneficial for us at 
that time. 

As an illustration, suppose you really need a raise, and the promotion you are 
after would accomplish that for you. So this is the energy you have been 
focusing on—acing the interview and paperwork. But instead of being promoted, 
you are abruptly fired from your job. Wow. This would tend to create an instant 
skeptic, wouldn’t it? But here is where keeping the faith is truly the most 
important thing you can do; losing it would be equal to sitting down in the 
middle of that long, dark tunnel I talked about before. Universe knows what you 
need better than you do. 

Imagine this, if you will. A week or so after your firing and straight out of the 
blue, an unexpected job offer appears. You apply and you win the position, 
which turns out to pay higher than the promotion would have and more 
importantly, it is also the most enjoyable and rewarding job you have ever had. 
What you didn’t know (and would have had no way of knowing) is that had you 
gotten the promotion, it would indeed have taken you up a few floors and to a 
comer office—a satellite branch of Hell. Before too long, you would have found 
yourself back in the unemployment lines. And you would have entirely missed 


out on the dream job you now have. 

See how Universe gives you what you need? We don’t have to know the whys 
and the wherefores, we just need to know in our hearts that we are connected and 
that we are protected. And that belief in the world of energy and a Higher Source 
is its own reward. 

This is applicable to the actuality of reading the energies in your name and 
date of birth as well; if you do not truly absorb and believe what you are reading 
and hear what it is saying to you, then it will do exactly nothing for you. Believe 
what is being said to you and your life as it currently stands might just be up for 
review. 


Follow Your Dream—lt Is Your Gift 
Let’s just say that you are, as of today, no longer held back by fear, or at the very 
least, that it does not affect you as much. There is a certain wonder in that 
realization—a mild excitement, for you know that you have opened or cleared a 
blockage of sorts and the level of threat has been reduced. You are more likely to 
follow your dream—to allow it to happen and to invite it in. 

But what is your dream? 

Look to your Soul or Inner name essences and your Lifepath for the clues if 
unknown. Much as my repetitious 1 and 3 Inner Soul energies point out the need 
for artistic expression, so will your numbers and letters speak to you. If you still 
aren’t quite sure, go back, for the answer often lies in childhood and early youth 
and involves activities particularly enjoyed or something you would daydream 
about while simultaneously recognizing it for the dream it was at the time. Or it 
can center around an ongoing interest you had. For me, it was all about books. I 
loved to read every chance I had; I wrote books of poetry and almost always 
received a perfect score on English tests and compositions, but I did not connect 
for many years that maybe writing was my “thing.” So finding yours may be a 
given or it may require a bit of digging and investigating. All it takes is a little 
dedication and determination ... and perhaps a bit of daydreaming. 

By looking at your strongest numbers and letter values (the highest amount of 
each) and your Lifepath number, you should have a pretty good idea of where 
your strengths lie, and this observation should help trigger memories of those 


things you loved to do when you were a kid or young adult. If you show, for 
example, a high level of artistic leanings (especially numbers 1, 3, 6, 9, and 
Master 11 or 22) and your dream has always been to carve figures from chunks 
of wood, then that is your gift from Universe: the ability to create an image and 
bring it to life by using a simple piece of wood and a carving knife. Perhaps you 
are a lawyer and the idea of becoming a wood carver cracks you up—fine! 
Laughter is medicine for the soul. After you’ve quit laughing, go find yourself a 
piece of wood and a carving knife and some sandpaper and watch what happens, 
both from an emotional and a material point of view. After all, where is it 
written that a lawyer may not be a wood carver? Or that a lawyer may not retire 
to become a successful artist? Nothing is set in stone (or wood)—all things are 
possible. There are no rules when it comes to the forms artistic expressions can 
take. This holds true for any talent or predilection your particular Lifepath has 
gifted you with. 

And how do you know if you are already using your gift? If you are, you will 
feel motivated to get up in the morning and eager to begin work, in whatever 
form it may take. You will feel peaceful and gratified and thankful. You will 
enjoy your existence and feel connected to something larger than yourself. 

On the other hand, if you are not using your gift, you may feel frustrated and 
limited—like you are missing something. There may be a feeling of 
dissatisfaction or of being trapped that encompasses your entire life and 
circumstances. The biggest indication that you are not using it is boredom. 
Excruciating boredom. 

The only way to find personal peace and tranquility of spirit is by doing what 
comes naturally. What I mean by that is to go where your instincts take you, to 
do that thing you most love to do. This can be something from long ago, 
something that has faded into the tapestry of your life, but is still there and can 
be adapted to fit into the present. Universe will literally plant it in front of you if 
you are truly ready and open to receive it. What is it that you loved to do? If 
enough thought and time is devoted to your question, the answer will come. Find 
your gift by being open to receiving it. And yes, I am speaking from experience. 


What We All Seek and Where It’s Hiding 


The one thing most of us focus on, individually and as a society, is finding and 
experiencing love in its purest form. Sounds easy, right? But since it is the 
definitive reason we are all here and is central to the lessons we are still here 
trying to learn, obviously it is not as easy as it sounds. And it all goes back to 
that age-old, if banal, truth about loving oneself before being equipped to extend 
this gift to others. We may say we understand, but do we really? I wonder how 
many of us get stuck in the “loving ourselves” part? With all of our flaws, 
checkered pasts, and judgments passed about our histories and actions, how do 
we honestly grow to care about and even love ourselves enough to share pure 
love with others? 

Again, Chaldean numerology gives us the answer: it all comes down to 
accepting that we are exactly who and how the Universe intended us to be. 
There are no mistakes. You are as perfect in your imperfections as I am in mine. 
Once that simple fact is assimilated and it is also understood that we are all 
teachers and students to one another, we can accept ourselves like we would 
another person and connect to ourselves like we would to someone we really 
care about. We must learn to be our own best friends and to treat ourselves with 
the same forgiveness and compassion that we would naturally offer to good 
friends ... and even to strangers. 

We all have the same emotions, even though some may suppress or hide them 
more effectively than others. We are like uncut precious gems that are here to be 
shaped and polished—by human interaction. Understanding that we are all “cut 
from the same stone” helps to remind us that we are all (as spirits having human 
experiences) essentially the same. We are all equal and deserve to be loved—a 
thought that many find easier to apply to others than to themselves, but again, 
anything is possible given enough Faith. 

So, in order to love another, we must first accept that we are exactly who we 
were meant to be and that we were intended that way. We are perfectly designed 
by the Divine. Therefore, the base for unconditional love lies in self-acceptance, 
for it is only when we can honor, respect, and love the spirit-in-human-form 
beings we truly are that we become equipped to extend that clean and 
undemanding energy to others ... and you are the starting point. You are the core 
of unconditional love, and so am I. 


And yes, that is the ultimate lesson: to learn to accept, like, and eventually 
love your very own self. That means trusting that there is a plan for you and that 
there is a reason you are here. Again, this is the aim of Chaldean numerology— 
to help you discover your path, your strengths, your weaknesses, your talents, 
and your true essences. And all Chaldean roads lead to love that is wholesome 
and freely shared. Once this is attained and we all stand as a graduating class, 
our collective power is considerable. 

There is much to learn and it begins with you ... and me ... and your neighbor 

. and my neighbor ... and connections that continue along the grid until it 
encompasses all of us. 

In this Cosmic School, the tools of learning can be unique, and Chaldean 
numerology offers all students of life a chance to perform an in-depth study of 
themselves and to track their spiritual growth with more understanding. Like a 
primer, the catalog of Chaldean numerology is designed to assist us in all areas 
of study and should ideally accompany each student to each class. 

There are a variety of additional categories within this primer; all are designed 
to open our senses so that we might interact with the universal energy and hear 
its messages more effectively—the most powerful of which is the intuition. 


Have You Ever Had a “Funny Feeling”? 

Remember that time when you just had a “funny feeling” about something that 
you ignored, only to hear yourself say later “I knew that was going to happen”? 
It took me a long time, too, to understand that this wasn’t just by chance. 
Somehow, I had known the outcome of something before it happened, or had 
known what the outcome would be should something be done a certain way, or 
at a specific time or in a particular place. My strongest intuition kicks in when 
someone or something dangerous or off-balance enters my personal space (not 
something that happens often, thankfully). There is an internal vibration that is 
so sharp, it feels as though my insides are actually buzzing—we all know the 
feeling, we just don’t pay attention to it when its tone is quieter and more 
manageable. 

The intuition (or sixth sense) is our protective sense, and all of us can hear it if 
we choose to. And although it is called a “sense,” it is not scientifically 


recognized as such; nevertheless, it exists and it is real. Our traditional five 
senses are man-made—they consist of what our physical appendages tell our 
brain—but the sixth sense is “out-sourced”; it is not of the human body. 
However, since it cannot be readily explained, the tendency is to dismiss it as 
unscientific and unproven and, therefore, essentially inconsequential. Which 
means it is most commonly ignored. 

The intuition primarily serves as a warning system: 99 percent of the time, the 
message received is one concerning danger of some kind or of the need to be 
alert or aware, which often translates into feelings of distrust or unease that 
usually point to the presence of questionable energies or circumstances. This 
feeling can whisper through you when considering the trustworthiness of a 
person, the rightness of a job offer, the outcome of a certain action, or even 
something as mundane as not stopping at the store on the way home even though 
that voice whispered something about toilet paper—but you ignored that funny 
feeling—it must be wrong, right? Wrong. The intuition is never wrong. But 
listening too late still leaves you sitting there at home, all alone—a tad rueful 
and wiser perhaps, but still without a square to spare. 

Learning to listen to and heed messages from our intuition is part and parcel of 
connecting with Universe—these messages are communications from that 
mysterious but very real energy and can be as rudimentary as needing toilet 
paper or as dramatic as a sudden and overwhelming sense of danger that screams 
run from every fiber of your being. 

I often hear folks ask how one can distinguish this voice from the other voices 
in their heads enough to know which is the voice of intuition, and my response is 
that the intuition is a feeling more than it is a voice. It is more of a certainty, an 
instinct, a deep knowledge that is difficult to put into words. This is not centered 
in the brain, like a thought, or a conversation with the self—this is a “sense 
impression.” You just know and it is usually something that defies explanation, 
but it will ultimately take the form of words or thoughts as it moves from the gut 
into the brain, thus the term “voice” being used to describe the feeling. 

For instance, if you are contemplating taking a ferry over to an island and you 
have a bad feeling about it, go another day. If you are thinking of borrowing 
your sister’s car to go shopping and you have a bad feeling about it, take the bus 


or don’t go at all. If you are at a party and some young guy approaches and asks 
you to come downstairs with him and you have a bad feeling about it, stay right 
where you are. (Many moons ago, I remember receiving an invitation to attend a 
party on board a yacht. It was steaming hot and I was too, but something told me 
to turn it down, as tempting as it was. Later that night, I heard that this same 
yacht had smashed onto a reef and sunk, leaving all aboard floundering in the 
ocean until they were rescued by the Coast Guard.) 

We make things more complex than they need to be: if it feels wrong, don’t do 
it. By the same token, you must learn how to differentiate between the voices of 
fear and those of the intuition. Remember that fear is ego-based, whereas the 
voice of your intuition is a deep-seated sensation of just knowing. It tingles 
through your insides before it takes on a thought-form. 

The intuition can also offer rare insight through, for instance, divination 
techniques like tarot cards, pendulums, or runes. When our thoughts are focused 
and our Faith is centered on that unseen element, the intuition can work 
wonders. While answering questions or presenting images of current energies, it 
can also offer unexpected and sublime messages that speak simple and sacred 
truths. The more you honor Divine intuition by adjusting your actions in 
response to warnings, the more in tune you and this sixth sense will become and 
the more messages you will receive. Again, time and practice are key; the ego is 
one huge monster with incredible shelf life, and it does not take kindly to 
knowledge it cannot scientifically classify. I have been working with the 
intuition for years and I still find myself ignoring it at times. Oddly enough, 
though, I am consciously aware of ignoring that voice ... and then of awaiting 
the outcome. It is like I am testing the system. Trust me when I say that those 
occasions were huge refresher courses for me and I even found myself laughing 
at the audacity of Universe, for some of the lessons were quite funny—Universe 
has a sense of humor, no doubt! What an exhilarating discovery that was. 


Symbolism and Omens 

Another element of daily life presents itself in the language of symbols that 
relate to the very real signs surrounding you every day. This is applicable in 
dreams as well as in waking life and is very simple and very personal in that 
what a frog means to your neighbor might not be the same as what a frog means 
to you. Your neighbor might view it as something to kiss in hopes of finding her 
prince while you might think of it as something gross and slimy that will give 
you warts. Very personal. Dream books can be helpful in an overall kind of way 
when applied to the symbols and contents of dreams, but you are the only one 
who can read the symbols accurately, whether they occur while in a dream or 
while walking down the street. 

Daily symbols come in a variety of shapes and forms and styles. They can 
appear as cars that won’t start (where were you headed?), watches that stop (has 
time run out for someone or something?), phone numbers that don’t connect 
(who are you trying to reach and why?), words caught in passing (what were you 
thinking about?) and thousands of other things. The key is becoming conscious 
of them and of how they connect to things in your life, especially ones that are of 
particular importance at that moment. 

Let’s say you are strolling downtown thinking about your trip to Boise, Idaho. 
For whatever reason, you are worried about the hotel you just booked. 
Approaching you from the opposite direction are two businessmen who are 
chatting up a storm. You vaguely notice them and keep worrying about the hotel. 
As they pass you by, you catch a snippet of their conversation and they are 


33 
I 


talking about a hotel. One says to the other “it’s great—you’ll love it!” and their 
voices fade abruptly. 

Do you hear the message in there for you? That is the core of symbolism: 
recognizing messages, wherever they might pop up, whether through 
conversations overheard, signs appearing in apparent answers to your unspoken 
questions, or odd occurrences that seem to fit into your circumstances. It is 
becoming aware of things around you in a whole new way. If the Universe is a 
giant matrix of energy, and you are a part of it, then it makes sense that a whole 


other level of communication exists around you and is there to assist you if you 


choose to hear or see its messages. 

Omens are more closely connected to the intuition and occur when a funny 
feeling combines with something you see, hear, or experience within the 
parameters of your daily life and usually on a repetitive basis; read together, they 
present a message of something amiss. 

Let’s say you have been seeing someone who seems nice, but you have an 
underlying weird feeling about this person, like a “beware” kind of feeling. So 
one morning, you stop in for a coffee at your regular spot, grab a paper, and 
settle in for a good read. There is an article on the second page about a person 
who did something awful and whose picture reminds you of this person you 
have been seeing. Not only that, but there are other similarities between the two 
—same age, same career ... just a coincidence, you say (even though you don’t 
believe in them, right?). You leave the cafe and the article becomes lost in the 
events of the morning. 

Later, you lunch at a local deli with your buddy and there on the table, spread 
before you like a welcome mat, is the exact article you read that morning over 
coffee. Again you are struck by the similarities in the picture, but this time, you 
notice the name of the journalist, and the first name is the same as the person 
you have been seeing. 

That could be called an “omen” and not an overly positive one, either. If I 
were you, I think I might consider a background check at this point. And I bet 
you wouldn’t be overly surprised if you found something. Hypothetically 
speaking, of course. 


Synchronicity 
Energies that move with the flow of energy instead of against it will naturally 
experience synchronicity. Let’s say you have been thinking about your aunt for a 
few days and finally make up your mind to call her. You haven’t seen her or 
spoken to her in months, so there you sit, phone in hand, trying to drum up the 
nerve to dial her number (she always frightened you as a kid), when the phone 
rings. Three guesses who it is. 

How is this possible? Very easily, actually—by thinking about your aunt, you 
were sending your thought energy waves to her; she picked them up 
(subconsciously) and started sending her own back to you. She might even 
comment that you have been on her mind a lot lately and you might think “what 
a coincidence” since she has also been on yours. But there are no coincidences. 
There is only energy, and when it flows in the same direction or towards the 
same goal and upon the same path, it produces synchronicity. You and your 
auntie were momentarily “in sync” with one another. 

Or imagine you have been looking for a particular book, one that is out of 
print and therefore hard to find. You run into an old friend in one of the many 
bookstores you have haunted in your search and fall into an exchange about 
good books. You mention the one you are looking for—and he just happens to 
have a copy of it at home, which he will be happy to lend you. You go the short 
distance to his house, share a cup of coffee, and leave with the book that just 
hours before seemed beyond your grasp in every way. This is an example of you 
and Universal energies being in sync. 

Ever had stuff like that happen to you? I’ll bet that you can come up with at 
least one example from your own life. The more aware you become, the more 
synchronicity will occur and the more in tune you will begin to feel. 


Déja vu ... or Reincarnation? 
Have you ever had the strong feeling of having been a particular place before 
despite also knowing that you haven’t? Perhaps you have experienced the odd 
sensation of having lived through a specific event or moment before? I think we 
all have. We call it déja vu (from early 20th-century French meaning “already 


seen”), puzzle over it for a moment or two, shrug it off, and go on our way. Is 
this another form of sense-memory or is it something more than that? 

You have undoubtedly heard of the concept that each of us travels through 
different incarnations, which is where the term re-incarnation comes in. This is a 
highly controversial topic, but I do find it worthy of note that despite this 
controversy, reincarnation does come up in almost all religious and belief 
systems in one way or another. Some believe it is an “end run” around God’s 
final judgment, while others believe that only the extremely bad people must 
come back (to make amends). I stand with the group that believes reincarnation 
is an accepted element in acquiring esoteric knowledge and achieving spiritual 
development: how we do in this incarnation is directly related to how we will do 
in the next and so on ... and our performances will dictate how often we 
experience physical form on this Earth plane and how long it will take each of us 
to “graduate.” 

So to my way of thinking, all the information that is available to us to improve 
our standing is worth looking into. We have nothing to lose and potentially 
everything to gain by actively seeking knowledge from every “book” in our 
massive and ever-growing library of life. Chaldean numerology is only one such 
“book”—there are many others just waiting to be found. Metaphysically and 
spiritually speaking, knowledge is power, and, in addition to making your life 
more fulfilling, it might just be the ticket to attaining ultimate victory and 
“graduating.” 


[contents] 


Six 


Sample Reads 


he following are sample reads on a few folks whose names you will 
recognize, but they are more casual and refined and are not intended to 
reveal everything about each person, nor could they, for the only one who will 
truly be able to read their own energies will be the person under analysis. Also, 
there is a certain level of respect that must be observed when it concerns 
messages from analysis: some are very personal and should only be revealed to 
the subject, so I have not gone down that deep in these sample reads. They are 
intended as structured examples of the information potentially available to you 
when you do your own analysis. Also, with the exception of one example, these 
folks are alive and well, so I have not addressed their Current Energy Phases for 
reasons also having to do with respect of privacy. 
Having said that, the letters and numbers do have overall meanings and in 
reading them, we can get a general idea of prevailing energies and other things. 


Apolo Anton Ohno—Olympic Speedskater 
Apolo Anton Ohno reflects the strength in his name by standing as one of the 
most powerful and decorated American Winter Olympians of all time. He has 
come a noticeably long way in a relatively short time: from a lost Olympic bid 
while still a young teenager, Apolo has gone on to win a total of 8 Olympic 
medals, and all before his 28th birthday. 

However, it was not always smooth skating for Apolo. He had his share of ups 
and downs that were serious enough to perhaps have prompted anyone with less 
drive and determination to throw in the towel or unlace the skates, as the case 
may be. 

Apolo began his speedskating career while still very young, and experienced 
considerable victories and setbacks along the way. At 14, Apolo became the 
youngest athlete ever to win the US Championships. After some weight and 


strength issues in 1997, he failed to make the US Junior World team, yet later 
that same year, went on to win both gold and silver medals at the US Senior 
Championships. The following year saw a disappointing last-place finish in his 
first bid for an Olympic spot at Nagano, but he then went on to win his second 
US Championship in 1999. 

In 2000, Apolo was unable to defend his title in the same competition, yet won 
his first World Cup overall title in 2001 while also regaining his National title. 

Controversy has never strayed far from Apolo either. In 2001, while 
participating in the pre-Olympic trials for short-track skating, Apolo was 
involved in an International Olympic Committee (IOC) dispute that centered 
around a questionable skate (he and a friend were suspected of throwing a race 
in order to ensure a spot on the six-man team for yet another friend). After 
enduring a three-day arbitration hearing, both were cleared of any wrongdoing. 
But controversy continued, this time centering around the disqualification of a 
leading South Korean skater for “cross-tracking” (blocking Ohno’s path), which 
then cleared the way for a gold medal finish for Apolo. More than 16,000 angry 
emails actually crashed the IOC’s website and subsequent death threats kept 
Apolo from competing in the 2003 World Cup short-track race in Korea, but 
again, he persevered and successfully defended his title during that same year 
and again in 2005. In the years that followed, Apolo continued to race and win— 
and also to race and lose, but he never gave up. Along the way, he collected 8 
Olympic medals, numerous National titles, and an induction to the Asian Hall of 
Fame (in recognition of his outstanding achievements and Japanese heritage); he 
guest-judged on Project Runway, and both entered and won the fourth season of 
Dancing with the Stars with his partner, Julianne Hough. 

In contrast to this ambitious side of Apolo is the soft and compassionate one: 
he also takes the time to work with worthy and humanitarian causes. For 
example, he has worked with Product Red to help fight AIDS in Africa; the 
Salvation Army to assist those less fortunate; and the Ronald McDonald House 
to help fund a home stay in Seattle, to mention but a few. Apolo is an interesting 
blend of drive and ambition and faith and spirituality. 

The following is the visual of Apolo Anton Ohno’s numbers. 


APOLO ANTON OHNO 


18737 15475 7557 


=26 =22 =24 
=8 =22 =6 
Sub # Total Name # 
72 
36 9 


APOLO OHNO 
18737 7557 
=26 =24 
=8 =6 
Sub # Daily name # 
50 
14 5 
MAY 22 Sub#  Lifepath # 
5 22 27 9 


Day: Master 22: The Builder 

The connections in Apolo’s name became apparent immediately and grew as I 
continued formulating his chart. The first and most obvious connection is to be 
found in his middle name and his day of birth: both show Master 22 energies, 
which can take the dreams and fantasies of the Master 11 and make them real 
and tangible in this Earth plane. The Master Builder (or Architect) has the 
fundamental power to create a rather large life—to amass and achieve and to, 
well, build his reality and surroundings and arrange their contents according to 
his desires. This super-charged energy is already making itself known. He has 
set an Olympic World record, so the balance of his life is akin to an open playing 
field (or ice arena, as it were). 

The other main connector is to be found in his Total Name Number of 9. As 
you know, this complete read of any name indicates the Universal potential held 
within that name, and Apolo’s gift vibrates exactly to his Number 9 Lifepath. 
Remember when I mentioned that the above connection is ideally what one 
wants to see and that the Total Name energy matching the Lifepath is quite 
auspicious? Here is a perfect example of this unification and proof of the power 
of aligned energies. Further, this 9 appears once more as the “sum of all he is,” 
as represented by his Identity Initial Code of AAO (1+1+7 =9). 

The following is what Apolo’s energies look like when broken down into 


categories. 


Whole Name Numbers 

Social Energy 

APOLO (A/1, P/8, O/7, L/3, O/7) = 26/8 

Apolo’s Cornerstone is the perfect expression of the pure and Original Force that 
the letter A and number 1 represent: both are “starter” energies, both are driven 
to succeed, and both pave the way for others to follow. The A/1 is the pioneer, 
the leader, the one who never gives up. In its positions as Cornerstones for both 
his Social energy and his Inner Soul energy, the A/1 doubles in strength and 
potency. Apolo is a force to be reckoned with. 

The energies that complete the essence of his social energy include the P/8, 
which means he will be direct and determined in his undertakings and committed 
to his goals, and that success will be drawn to him, especially materially. The 
key to its lasting power will be dictated by his spiritual development and his 
level of compassion. 

Connected to this energy is the power and opportunity presented in the 
openness of the O/7. Since he has two of these energies in his social essence, this 
makes an incredibly strong statement about how far he can go and how much he 
can accomplish—if he is open to it. Squeezed between these impressive 
vibrations sits the loving L/3. This indicates that no matter how involved Apolo 
may become in projects, organizations, and sports, he will always make time for 
family, friends, community, and assisting or motivating others. The 3 energy 
shows that his life is filled with activity and that his mind is never still. 

Apolo is a rare blend of assertiveness, control, determination, receptivity, and 
attentiveness. Three 7 symbols appear in his first name—one in the upside-down 
L—and this can produce an interest in the unusual, the mysterious, or the 
metaphysical ... an interest that pops up again and will likely grow over time. 

While he may suffer a few drawbacks and controversy along the way, chances 
are good that Apolo will stand up to opposition and achieve his goals, an ability 
he has already demonstrated. 

His Whole Name Number of 8 within the social arena can mean that some 
may view him as too focused on achieving and not enough on just being. The 
sub number here is 26, which speaks to a need to connect and be connected to 


people, places, or things in a deep and devoted manner. What others may 
occasionally perceive as controlling behavior is actually based on genuine 
concern for the people, places, and things he loves. Apolo likes things to be in 
order, which is also a characteristic of the 8. Given enough time and experience, 
he carries the potential to reach that rare level of spiritual and material balance 
that is inherent to the fully developed 8. 


Inner or Soul Energy 

ANTON (A/1, N/5, T/4, O/7, N/5) = 22 

Master 22: The Builder 

Apolo’s Inner or Soul energy is wired to his Lifepath and states fairly succinctly 
that the desire and motivation to build something of lasting value is exactly 
matched by his potential to do so while he is on this Earth plane. Since he has 
accomplished much in his life thus far, I would say that these two Master 
Builder vibrations are incredibly accurate and hold tremendous promise for 
future undertakings. The 22 has the ability and talent to design its own life, but 
must take care not to “color outside the lines” or build castles on sand. 
Foundations must be afforded the same amount of attention as the building itself; 
it will only be as secure as its pilings. This 22 also carries the same warning 
regarding careful observance of moral and ethical boundaries connected to 
successful 22 energies. 

The A/1 Cornerstone of Apolo’s Inner Self holds the same drive and 
determination as his Social energy. (These two A/1 Cornerstones form a double 
whammy of originality, pioneering strength, tenaciousness, focused energy, and 
the natural inclination to keep going no matter what.) The conviction to achieve 
goals literally begins in his soul. 

The energies that complete his Inner Soul include two N values, which 
fortunately soothe and calm the changes and eventfulness of their 5 values 
(despite the chaotic conflicts these outrageous number energies can cause) while 
the T and O just keep adding more thoughts, ideas, and options. The number 5 
values emphasize the freedom that motivates Apolo—this is a base and core 
need that he will always have and in some odd way, always search for. 

There is something else I must mention here and it concerns the double-2 
values in the number 22. As oft-mentioned, double numbers have the potential to 


increase their energetic meanings or to create conflict in that particular area. In 
this case, the 2 theme in all of his subs and as a Master here can suggest 
difficulties in relationships; close, personal, and usually formative connections 
may hold challenging lessons. The Master vibration 22 has the power to 
suppress or express emotions, and they tend to suppress when they get the 
chance, which can lead to problems years later when foundations begin to crack. 
(I have noticed that major lessons are learned after the second run-through of 
name energies [unless the name is short], for the simple reason that we have 
been around a little longer and are a bit wiser by then by virtue of experience.) 

Apolo’s Inner Self is the nucleus of his actions and paths taken on a social 
level. There is a deep and abiding conviction that his “building” will be built, 
which gives him a deep and abiding sense of self—as such, he will likely come 
across as confident, cheerful, receptive, and outgoing. He will have a fantastic 
imagination and enthusiasm to spare. This is a soul energy that is loyal, 
responsible, methodical, and dedicated. 


Domestic Energy 

OHNO (0/7, H/5, N/5, O/7) = 24/6 

As you already know, last names are not as important as the first two names but 
can influence the formation of character, ethics, and so on. The ideal number 
vibration to have in this position is Apolo’s—his Domestic influence is the 
loving and nurturing number 6. This energy shows that there is a consistent and 
constant offer of support and caring, and a place to regroup when needed. The 6 
is warm and safe and enduring; it is indeed the place of domestic bliss, which 
doesn’t mean everything was always peaches and cream—rather, it means that 
home was and will continue to be safe for Apolo. 

The Cornerstone here is the O/7. We have already said enough about this letter 
and number energy; the only thing I want to add here is that since this is a 
domestic influence, the opportunities would have originated from within the 
family structure itself, in particular, from the male essence of the family unit. 
This is a natural salutation to Apolo’s father, Yuki. 

The energies that make up the balance of the Ohno name are the H/5, N/5, and 
a final O/7. What is held in this essence is independent choice (H); freedom, 
artistic communication, sensory stimulation, changes and risk-taking (5); and the 


ongoing portals (O) or opportunities that seem to be awaiting Apolo. 


Daily Name Number 

APOLO OHNO (8+6) = 14/5 

First sub numbers: 26+24 = 50 

Apolo’s Daily Name is composed of the sub numbers 50 and 14 and total to 5. 
The sub number of 50 indicates that changes, freedom (personal and financial), 
communication, sensory input, and stimulation are important elements to him. 
The one thing that pops out here is the potential for fame—the 5 stands for this 
alone, but when the intensifier of the cipher is added, this potential becomes 
even more likely. Looking at his second (and most important) sub number calls 
to mind breaking ground, as the 14 reads as “force through foundations”, but 14 
can also carry difficult frequencies within its structure, as this same force can 
apply to foundations such as family, job, health, and other basic aspects of life. 
Suffice it to say that Apolo Ohno as a Daily Name holds many changes that 
involve originality, determination, and pioneering breakthroughs as well as the 
sometimes chaotic changes and ongoing searches for sensory stimulation that the 
number 5 heralds. These ongoing changes are part and parcel of Apolo’s path 
and will assist him in getting where he wishes to be; the freedom-seeking 5 does 
not usually settle for a run-of-the-mill existence, and his life will entail a theme 
of changes, so anyone who contemplates hitching up to Apolo’s wagon had best 
understand and accept this before doing so. 


Total Name Number 

APOLO ANTON OHNO (8+22+6) = 36/9 

First sub numbers: 26+22+24 = 72 

Apolo’s Total Name Number is 9: Beginnings and Endings. What this means is 
that Universe gave him a heavy load to carry when he arrived—some emotional 
baggage may have accompanied him and manifested in the early years of his 
life. The 9 is the highest on the evolutionary scale before graduating to the 
Masters (a potential already present in the Master 22), holds all of the lessons to 
be found in the previous grades 1 through 8 and provides the toughest subjects 


and homework. 

Number 9 is the artist, the empath, the spiritualist. It moves through life 
gathering different experiences, passing through circumstances, and joining and 
releasing friendships and other connections. This is a “moving on” kind of 
energy as its nature is to seek out more knowledge and more experience. There 
is a spiritual element here that is different in tone than the balance of the other 
energies in Apolo’s read—it suggests to me (again) that there may be a curiosity 
about the hidden side of life, which must be investigated if he is to realize the 
entire spectrum of the 9 essence. As mentioned previously, when there is a 
match between the Total Name energy (or the complete picture of one’s 
potential) and the Lifepath number, well, all I can say is that Apolo has the 
proverbial world by the tail. It is up to him what he does with it. 


Lifepath Number 

May (5) + 22 = 27/9 

Day: 22 Master Builder 

Apolo’s Lifepath number 9 shows that beneath the outer composure lies a soft, 
sensitive, and aware person. He may need to come to terms with an element of 
the past that involves immediate family and understand that all was as it should 
have been. He is destined to be a leader of some type: perhaps within his natural 
habitat of the worlds of art and vision and performance. While his head can 
appear to be in the clouds, his heart will always be in the right place and 
somehow, his feet will always be on the ground. 

Born on May 22, Apolo’s Lifepath sub number is 27 (an interesting “mirror” 
of the sub for his Total Name Number) which was also his age when he won his 
8th Olympic and record-breaking medal at the 2010 Games in Vancouver, 
British Columbia. 

His sub number of 27 is interesting in that it shows the softer side of Apolo: 
the number 2 (which is oft repeated in his subs) represents friendliness, 
approachability, concern, kindness, and compassion. This is a nurturing essence, 
one who places considerable importance upon loyal friendships. Connections of 
2 will likely permeate his work and personal life. The presence of the 2 indicates 
that heartfelt connections are as important as “reaching the goal.” The connected 


7 points once more to the brain and its functions—logic and mystery are its 
primary interests. This 27 also holds the potential of units of 2 working together, 
using the functions of the brain to create something unique and memorable. This 
is something he has likely not yet fully realized because of his age. 


Lifepath Day 

Born on the 22nd of May makes Apolo’s specific entry energy 22—the Master 
Builder, which is identical to the energy vibration gifted to him by Universe on a 
Soul or Inner level. This kind of match, as I have already said, is ideal and fairly 
rare, and in this case, presents tremendous potential for success and 
material/spiritual gain because it springs from his Inner self and is propelled by a 
core desire or need. This gives Apolo extra intensity when it comes to creating, 
chasing, and actualizing his dreams. There is, however, a warning attached to 
this Master Number that calls for careful awareness of ethical and moral 
guidelines, which must be observed lest all that is built comes tumbling down. 
This message is doubled in his Inner Soul energy. 


Highest Letter and Number Count 

The highest volume of letter energies in Apolo’s chart is the O—he has 5 of 
these in his complete name. To say that so many O values in one name is 
unusual would be an understatement. This offers Apolo so many opportunities 
and doors to choose from that someone less focused may well be overcome by 
the voltage held therein. Once again, it would appear that the world is his Oyster 
... providing he commits to finding his pearl. 

The highest volume of a number energy in Apolo’s chart is 7, which 
predictably connects back to the O values. Since 7 rules the brain, thoughts, 
plots, ideas, research, and anything else can make its home there. Apolo is sure 
to think things through very carefully before taking action. This would translate 
into someone who is highly intellectual and rational; however, the flip side of the 
7 calls to the perhaps less scientific and controlled side of thought patterns. This 
call involves using his intellect to investigate the more mysterious side of life—a 
connection that keeps showing up. 


Identity Initial Code 
AAO (A/1, A/1, O/7) =9 


This set of initials displays the sheer drive of the first letter in the alphabet and 
the first number in the scale and brings to mind the speed and power and force of 
direction that Apolo’s chosen sport epitomizes. The A is the winner—the 
champion, the striver, and the one in motion—and two A charges in a row 
intensifies this force. However, here we also have an example of double energies 
(the two 1 values form a sub 11) and because of the possibilities of conflict of 
force, Apolo may occasionally fall down or crash or go off the rails and into the 
ditch, so to speak. These double A/1 values can create problems, setbacks, and 
misdirections along the way, especially if Apolo becomes distracted by the 
temptations of sensory stimulation that can be found throughout his name 
energies (5). The saving grace of this unit comes in the form of the O/7, which 
can be read as his destination: Open to all. The meaning of the O is almost 
unlimited; Apolo can look forward to opportunities that are “Olympic” in nature 
and, unlike the Games, hold no distinct parameters or time limits, other than 
those nature imposes. 

The total of his initial code is 9 (which ties to his Total Name Number and his 
Lifepath number) and is illustrative of the theme “beginnings and endings” and 
also of deeply ingrained sensitivity, compassion, artistic talent (dancing, for 
instance), intuition, and spiritual awareness. 


Words within Names 

The most obvious connection here is the presence of the Greek God’s name 
(although it is spelled slightly differently; the double L values reflect the difficult 
love life of the mythical god Apollo) and also of Mount Olympus, the home of 
the Pythias Games. Those games are considered the forerunner to the modern 
Olympics and were, according to legend, created in honor of the god Apollo 
after he slew the giant Python at Delphi with his bow and arrows. 

This energy vibration suggests skill and swiftness and is certainly applicable 
to Apolo’s social energies. 

A rather humorous link exists in his middle name as well. Remember I 
mentioned all of the activity that goes on within Apolo’s brain and Inner Self? 
Well, the “Ant” is often noted as being one of the most industrious and 
organized creatures in the world—again, this energy matches the activity and 
construction held in his Soul energy. 


And last but not least: “Oh, No!” This is a phrase most likely uttered when 
events like crashes into boards, disqualifications, and _ less-than-stellar 
performances occur—and most likely by his dad. Speaking of his dad, Yuki 
supposedly named his son based on Greek translations of “steering away from” 
and “look out—here he comes!” How absolutely true that application of energy 
became ... it all but encapsulates the image of a speedskater. 


Connecting Numbers 
Since I do not have access to Apolo’s private number assignments, I can only 
comment on the 8 Olympic medals he has won and the name of his new line of 
health products, 8Zone. I would be remiss if I did not also add that it has been 
reported that he considers 8 to be his lucky number. 

I wonder if he already knew that his Social energy vibration is an 8? 


Leonardo da Vinci— 
Artist, Inventor, Scientist: The Renaissance Man 

This famous artist (the Mona Lisa and The Last Supper to name but a few of his 
contributions to the world of painting) was much more than a painter—he was a 
multi-talented and multi-layered gentleman whose interests ranged from 
dissecting and “mapping” the interiors of cadavers to the more sublime study of 
the movements, currents, and properties of water (which he also “mapped” in his 
treatise “Codex Leicester,” currently owned by Bill Gates). Leonardo was also 
an accomplished sculptor, draftsman, illustrator, architect, musician, scientist, 
and engineer whose desire for knowledge combined art with science, and 
produced wondrous results, all of which he attributed to “knowing how to see.” 

Leonardo began his apprenticeship while still young and learned all about 
making canvas and brushes; grinding and mixing paints; carving in wood, clay, 
and stone; and casting in metal, silver, and gold. 

After his apprenticeship, Leonardo went on to create his own history, which is 
still regarded with tremendous respect hundreds of years later. 

The interior workings of things fascinated Leonardo—the investigation of 
those cadavers I just mentioned were done to expose the body’s functions and 
were based on curiosity and a genuine desire to know, rather than morbidity. The 
exact same level of care and attention were applied by Leonardo, whether 


creating intricate machinery or calculating the mathematical angles inherent in 
the creation of three-dimensional images on canvas. 

His was an interesting, informative, and unique life, to be sure, but Leonardo 
also faced setbacks and disappointments: at least two of his major paintings 
remained unfinished because of suspected difficulties in the quality of the paints 
(since the restoration of The Last Supper, it is an acknowledged fact that very 
little of the original paint remains intact), including a commissioned piece for the 
Council Hall in Florence (1503) called Battle of Anghiari (which was to have 
greatly surpassed the size of The Last Supper) and another called Ledo, the sister 
painting, some say, to the Mona Lisa. 

Another likely crushing disappointment had its beginnings with a 
commissioning from the Sforza dynasty around 1482: a gigantic horse was to be 
rendered and then cast in bronze. Leonardo spent approximately twelve years 
designing and molding the massive sculpture. It was eventually ready to be 
encased in bronze and would have been the largest sculpture of its kind at the 
time—a historic moment—when the threat of war intervened. Instead of the 
bronze being assigned as the crowning glory of Leonardo’s magnificent 
sculpture, it was instead used to fill cannon molds. The project was aborted and 
the war reduced the majestic clay horse to a pile of rubble. How painful that 
must have been for him. 

Although Leonardo created thousands of pages of text and illustrations, none 
were ever published; consequently, the natural assumption was that Leonardo 
did not care one way or the other about publishing his works. However, marked 
in the margin of one of his last anatomy drawings is a notation regarding exactly 
that—an expressed desire for his works to be published. His devoted student, 
Melzi, did publish abridged versions of some of da Vinci’s work, but only after 
his death. This was perhaps another dream or desire he never realized. 

So, here is a number 1 force who had to face challenges and new beginnings 
time and again—but who never gave up. 

In true keeping with his double 7 values (see below), Leonardo was almost 
two-sided: he even wrote backwards (“mirror” writing, with his left hand); this 
duality was evidenced in many different ways. As an example, Leonardo loved 
beauty, art, and animals in all their forms and despised war, yet he also designed 


and invented intricate weapons specifically intended for use during war. 

Further indication of Leonardo’s philosophical understandings of the worlds 
of science and the spiritual are echoed in his own words about his conceptions of 
forms, objects, and particular uses of anything within the realm of Universe as 
being dictated through “physical and spiritual motion.” It is almost as though he 
viewed everything from an objective point of view that just naturally 
incorporated the logical and the spiritual. 

Perhaps the most telling statement on record regarding his view on painting 
(and likely his view of overall reality) is to be found in the following quotation: 


The mind of the painter is transformed into a copy of the divine mind, since it 
operates freely in creating many kinds of animals, plants, fruits, landscapes, 
countrysides, ruins, and awe-inspiring places. 

—Leonardo da Vinci (1452-1519) 


This run through of his name essences will not go into quite as much detail as 
Apolo’s—I just find Leonardo’s numbers to be quite reflective of the man, his 
interests, his contributions, his art, and the impressive legacy he left behind—a 
primary goal of the number 1. 


LEONARDOODA VINCI 


35751247 41 61531 


=34 =5 =16 
=7 25:27 
Sub # Total Name # 


19/10 


April 1 5 Sub # Lifepath # 


4 6 101 


Once again, we are looking at a Total Name Number energy that matches the 
Lifepath Number energy. Energies like this are rarely held down; the Universe 
supports their endeavors in ways that are out of the ordinary, noticeable, and 
lasting. Considering this main energy is the Original Force of the number 1, this 
person who was Leonardo da Vinci had something, or a series of somethings, to 
do, be, or create, and he did so with admirable determination and over a vast 
domain and a period of many years. His life consisted of starts and stops and 
beginnings and endings (19), yet he was a force unto himself; everywhere he 
went or anything he did always left a legacy, one way or the other. Because of 
the strong influence of the 10, his was also a life that was destined to leave a 
mark, an imprint upon man in some way, big or smal—which he did. 

Something worthy of mention is his first sub number: the Master 55 or the 
Master Genius, because he was a Master Genius in so many ways—even today, 
many of his illustrated mechanical “blueprints” and ancient devices can be 
copied and built, and they work just fine. Indeed, many of the items and products 
we consider relatively commonplace today actually began in Leonardo’s head 
and were first birthed under his pen. Found among his papers were sketches of 
(the first) motorcars, bicycles, (3-shot) machine guns, parachutes, tanks, and 
swinging bridges. 

Whole Name Numbers 

Social Energy 

LEONARDO (L/3, E/5, O/7, N/5, A/1, R/2, D/4, O/7) = 34/7 

Leonardo’s Cornerstone energy is the L/3, which means he experienced the love 


of something at an early age; this love could have come in any form and we do 
know from his history that it took the form of art and design. The numeric value 
of 3 lends the force of activity to both the brain and the body—Leonardo was 
likely always thinking about creation, even as a youngster. His curiosity about 
the things around him was probably intense and may have left him in a world of 
his own—others may not have been able to follow his endless changes in focus 
and shifts in attention. 

The balance of the energies in Leonardo’s name begins with the sheer energy 
of the E/5, which simply exaggerated the love of his chosen topic(s), and such 
intensity could have easily become obsessive (this can manifest in relationships 
as well, but history shows that this was not Leonardo’s focus). The L is a 
forward-reaching and helping energy; it wants to “make better” and even heal. It 
was from this place that Leonardo observed the life around him—seeking its 
secrets by using his senses and learning how to translate or communicate what 
he saw, and the O/7 allowed him to see things from an entirely unique 
perspective (this energy phase would have been highlighted before and around 
age 15—the same time frame during which he began his art apprenticeship). The 
N/5 that follows would have introduced a variety of interests and fascinating 
sensory stimulations that would have been, fortunately, influenced by the 
calming nature of the N—many subjects would be introduced and all would have 
been given logical and impartial assessment—until the A phase kicked in. This 
“fresh start” offered Leonardo the experience and knowledge to begin his own 
career—he would have a direction upon which to focus (painting) thanks to the 
presence of the A/1. Unfortunately, the R/2 does indicate disappointments along 
the way, as already touched on, and also can indicate difficulties in intimate or 
loving relationships; Leonardo never married, nor is there mention of a 
significant other in his life. The follow-up D/4 points to doors opening and 
closing: relationships that are short, if at all, and projects ending before they 
were begun. It is said that Leonardo became quite disillusioned towards the end 
of his life (perhaps due to the emergence of younger, talented artists) but the 
final O/7 of his social energy speaks to the considerable legacy of knowledge 
and subjects of study he left to us. 

Leonardo’s Whole Name Number is 7 and perfectly epitomizes his incredibly 


intelligent mindset, his logical thought processes, and his scientific outlooks. It 
also encompasses his spiritual side—this man looked at things from all sides and 
used both logical and spiritual angles when drawing, sculpting, or undertaking 
any expression of the thoughts and images in his brain. 

It is likely that Leonardo was not readily understood by others. While they 
may have been impressed with his intellect and creativity, chances are good that 
he kept to himself and did not place too much value on the political side of social 
interactions. He may not have had much of an interest in socializing for its 
entertainment or social-status values, although he certainly did have ongoing and 
loyal relationships with both mentors and students. The descriptions of reserved, 
dignified, and well-respected most likely applied to this Italian Renaissance man 
quite nicely. 

His Social sub number of 34 is a raw expression of the force of activity (3), 
which has the ability to “run through” or “destroy in order to rebuild” the 
foundations of the 4. This energy is one that can (and did) introduce new 
concepts, ideas, and practical applications that changed the conceptualizations 
and directions of mankind. 


Inner or Soul Energy 

Note: This is not actually his middle name; translated, this Italian word means 
“from,” and here it refers to where Leonardo lived—but it is part of his name 
energy and so must be looked at in analysis. 

DA (D/4, A/1) =5 

The placement of the Door as Leonardo’s Inner Self is very appropriate here: the 
D/4 offers new vistas, concepts, inventions, and ways of relating to the other side 
of our normal perceptions, and the A/1 energy that follows applies solid force to 
projects found on the other side of the (opened) door and the determination to 
understand and master them. 

The Whole Name Number of da totals to a 5, which underscores the two 
already found in his social nature. The Inner self of Leonardo da Vinci was 
likely filled with changing thoughts, sense impressions, and the desire to attain 
the “ultimate” in freedom through Universal truths and visions—images that 
were forever changing shape and content. 

The inner soul of Leonardo was seeking and knocking; he likely did not think 


of himself in an overly personal way—as in my needs and wants. His sense of 
self was larger than most and was centered in his surroundings and what he 
could find there. 


Domestic Energy 

Note: Once again, this is not Leonardo’s birth name—it refers to the place he 
lived; however, its energies still apply. 

VINCI (V/6, 1/1, N/5, C/3, I/1) = 16/7 

The Cornerstone of V/6 seeks victory and unity: it lifts up to the heavens, and its 
essence is loving and warm. Leonardo sought this kind of victory—the kind that 
opened all doors and allowed access to the perfection of the Universe. This is not 
to say that he attained it, merely that he never stopped reaching for it. One other 
significant meaning connected to the V is the search for the perfect mate— 
something da Vinci likely found in his love for science and art rather than in a 
particular person. 

The balance of this name energy includes two I factors: here is the power of 
the intuition in full bloom. The connection between “out there” and “down here” 
is emphasized and, to Leonardo, this must have been an accepted part of his 
psyche, as the N/5 is once again present to offer calm in all undertakings. The 
C/3 calls for communication of all that is seen, perceived, intuited, and sensed, 
through whichever medium available, and the final I value at the end of the 
name energy ties back to the final O in Leonardo—the aim does not falter, the 
goal remains the same—to access and express all that lies within the human and 
the Divine brain. 

Again, the Whole Name Number is a 7—more of the same energy that is held 
in his social energy. It all goes back to the brain, time and again—and that is 
where Leonardo lived, in his brain. 

The sub number is 16, an energy that is motivated or pushed (1) through love 
or emotion (6). In this case, it would read as a positive force in search of positive 
energies, perhaps at the expense of intimate and domestic love such as that found 
between husband and wife. 


Total Name Number 
LEONARDO DA VINCI (7+5+7) = 19/10/1 


First sub number (34+5+16) = 55 Master Genius 

It seems so very fitting that this Renaissance Man’s gift from Universe came in 
the form of the breakthrough vibration of the numbers 19/10, 55/10, and 1. 
Certainly original, inventive, curious, and a force unto himself, Leonardo as a 
name energy embodies the diversity and electrical charge that drives this 
number’s Lifepath, which is to seek, comprehend, achieve, and create. 

The 19 reads as one of the more forceful and barrier-breaking vibrations 
known; it is the combination of the beginner, the starter, the one who knocks on 
doors and is not held back by fear. The 9 indicates the various stages and 
projects explored and investigated; therefore, these two thrusting and cyclical 
energies come together to create new starts, pioneering developments, and 
insatiable curiosity, which is present in both the 10 and the 1 energies. 

Leonardo was a force unto himself and to humankind as well, and may have 
been almost heavensent (or a gift from Universe?) in a way: his very essence, 
which is reflected in his Total Name Number and its subs is an exact match to 
his Lifepath and its subs. Because of the nature of the number involved, 
Leonardo da Vinci was simply power supreme when it came to forging the way. 


Lifepath Number 
April (04) + 15 = 19/10/1 
Here again is the main connector between the Total Name Number and the 
Lifepath Number. When these two vibrations are on the same wavelength, 
anything is possible. Leonardo da Vinci is a prime example of what can happen 
when dynamic and identical energies merge. He also illustrates the truth of a 
numeric rule of thumb: number 10 energies tend to leave something behind that 
is of considerable value to mankind or even just to a select few. 

His Day of Birth number 6 suggests that he was a loving soul who seemed to 
be undergoing constant shifts in his life. To me, it feels like his was a focused 
search for love, but not in a physical way—more in a spiritual or altruistic way. 


Highest Letter and Number Count 

Leonardo was interested in almost anything, and the energies in his name reflect 
a broad coverage in range as well. Five of his letter energies repeat themselves 
while each of the others counts as one each. The doubled energies of the A, D, I, 


N, and O comment on his unending curiosity, his seeking of knowledge, his 
intuitive connection, his calm nature, and his thirst for new and fresh options, 
information, and projects. 

The highest number count goes to the 1, 5, and 7, which are also the exact 
numbers assigned to his Total Name, his Inner and his Social energies, 
respectively. These numbers speak to an original freedom seeker whose search 
involved the untried and unusual. 


Identity Initial Code 

LDV (3+4+6) = 13/4 

Leonardo’s Identity Initials are LDV (3+4+6) and total to 13/4. The number 13 
suggests unusual forces at play. Sometimes it has to do with karma, and other 
times it can indicate unusual and even mysterious forces. Remember the number 
13 is a force of activity that is beyond powerful and that its electrical forces can 
produce fundamental changes for good and for ill—the 13 is that potent. In this 
event, Leonardo’s force of activity produced fundamental and lasting changes in 
the development and direction of humanity. A grandiose statement, but one that 
seems applicable here ... which is a nice way to conclude my look at Leonardo’s 
energies. 


Leonard DiCaprio— 
Producer/Actor and Environmentalist 
Many years ago, a young expectant mother wandered through the Uffizi Gallery 
in Florence, Italy, marveling at the shadows and subtle depths in the art of 
Leonardo da Vinci. As she studied and wondered, the child in her womb 
reportedly delivered a kick worthy of an award. Perhaps this was a prediction of 
some sort, considering what her child went on to do with his life. 

Apparently she didn’t forget that kick, either, for when the child came, she 
named him after the Master painter she had been studying at the time of this 
memorable kick. However, baby Leonardo’s path, though similar in many ways 
to the painter’s, would take him down very different roads—the first of which 
began in a drug-infested and environmentally polluted area of Los Angeles 
known as Echo Park, where life as a kid, to put it mildly, could be rather 
challenging. Leonardo even credited living in a neighborhood that overflowed 


with drug addicts and prostitutes with helping him form aversions to drugs and 
for highlighting and ingraining the realization that we as a people needed to 
become more aware of the damage we were doing to our Earth and her 
environment: his neighborhood was a smaller version of the bigger picture. 

Although his parents separated shortly after he was born, they were both 
active in his life and encouraged him to pursue his interests, one of which 
became acting or performing. In fact, Leonardo’s first gig was on television’s 
Romper Room at the age of five. He was obviously enthusiastic about 
performing, for he went on to make plenty of commercials and several 
educational shorts throughout his teens. 

Leonardo kept auditioning until winning the lead in a low-budget, straight-to- 
video horror film called Critters 3, which served as a springboard into landing a 
recurring role on the struggling sitcom Growing Pains, which succumbed to its 
slumping ratings the following season. But Leonardo’s reel was growing and 
that earned him an audition for This Boy’s Life, a true story based on the 
memoirs of Tobias Woolf and his abusive stepfather, played by Robert De Niro. 
Leonardo won the part over hundreds of other young hopefuls and, with the 
release of the film in 1993, he proved beyond a doubt that he was a seriously 
talented actor ... and one to watch. 

This was only the first in a series of roles that involved complex, confused, 
and conflicted characters. The kicker was and continues to be that the majority 
are centered more on true stories than on fictional ones, and the fictional ones 
are undoubtedly real somewhere in the world. 

In 1993’s What’s Eating Gilbert Grape, Leonardo portrayed a mentally 
handicapped teenager with such conviction that he earned a nod from the 
Academy Awards as Best Supporting Actor. Two years later, he took on Total 
Eclipse, the true story of Arthur Rimbaud, a poet whose tortured life centered 
around his sexual preferences. Yet another character based in truth came to life 
on screen during that same time frame: The Basketball Diaries grew from the 
journals of Jim Caroll, a young basketball player who seemed destined for NBA 
success but who became addicted to drugs instead. Then came a role as a 
stylishly seductive gunslinger in the 1995 movie The Quick and the Dead, which 
offered yet another glimpse into the many faces of Leonardo the actor. His 


chosen roles were, to say the least, diversified and challenging, and with his shift 
in direction as Romeo in a modernized version of William Shakespeare’s Romeo 
and Juliet in 1996, Leonardo became a sexy and convincing romantic leading 
man as well. His credentials grew, as did his fame; he seemed well on his way to 
success. 

Then, in 1997, a gigantic steam ship named the Titanic plowed into 
Leonardo’s life and changed it forever. This time, his role was more traditional, 
as in a “boy meets girl, girl loses boy” kind of way, and for a while, Leonardo 
was literally on top of the world, and on the top at the box office. Titanic became 
the highest-grossing movie ever made at that time and currently sits second only 
to Avatar (2009). 

A string of unremarkable “how the heck do we match that” films followed 
until 2002, when Leonardo delivered a remarkable portrayal of a real-life con 
artist in Catch Me If You Can. Once again, Leonardo landed at the top of the A- 
list, a position he cemented two years later by winning a Golden Globe award 
for his role as Howard Hughes in The Aviator. 

Leonardo’s lifelong passion for environmental awareness, education, and 
protection began to take firm physical form as well. After narrating two films 
about environmental issues, he followed up by co-writing, co-producing, and 
narrating The 11th Hour, a full-length film that explores how human kind is 
negatively affecting the health and equilibrium of our planet. This film was 
previewed at the 2007 Cannes Film Festival and won favorable reviews. In 
March 2008, The 11th Hour was honored with the 22nd Annual Earthwatch Film 
Award. Leonardo has further demonstrated his commitment to this cause by 
serving on the boards of the Natural Resources Defense Council and Global 
Green USA and by forming websites that foster awareness of the true 
circumstances of our environment and its direction if change is not implemented 
and sustained soon. More recently, the World Wildlife Fund joined with 
Leonardo in a campaign called “Save Tigers Now,” which is specifically aimed 
at saving a small tiger family that stands on the edge of extinction, which, to me, 
offers a peek at his love for animals as well. 

Leonardo is a thoughtful, pragmatic, reserved, talented, and focused man who 
has remained true to his lifelong interests in acting and in the environment and 


has transformed them into things that we can see and relate to as genuine. He has 
turned his childhood dreams into his reality. The one thing that really stands out 
for me is that Leonardo is substantial. He seems to prefer portraying real people 
with real challenges and real stories, yet his career is all about creating an 
effective illusion. This is the perfect illustration of the developed 7: the world of 
the intellect is tapped into just as deeply as the world of the imagination. 

Leonardo DiCaprio is also the ideal example of the Master 22 energy at work: 
he has built a strong foundation from which to act, so to speak. This is a man 
with yet much to accomplish—things that have little or nothing to do with 
acting. This is a man to watch, for he is building his life into one worthy of note, 
which is exactly what his Lifepath number forecasts. 

Here is a visual look at Leonardo’s energies. 


LEONARDO WILHELM DI CAPRIO 


35751247 6135534 41318217 


=34 =27 =27 


=7 =9 =9 


Sub # Total Name # 


25 7 


LEONARDO DICAPRIO 


35751247 413186217 


=34 =27 


Sub # Daily Name # 


16 7 


November 11 Sub # Lifepath # 


11 11 22 22 


Month and Day are both: 
Master 11: The Intuitive Imager 
Lifepath: Master 22: The Builder 


Whole Name Numbers 

Social Energy 

LEONARDO (L/3, E/5, O/7, N/5, A/1, R/2, D/4, O/7) = 34/7 

Have you ever wondered how two identical name energies might compare to one 
another? There will be many similarities between the two Leonardos, however, 
the true distinctions in personalities will become evident as we look at 


DiCaprio’s additional names, totals, and Lifepath energies. 

That said, here comes Leonardo DiCaprio’s Social signature, and don’t be 
surprised if it sounds familiar. Quite familiar, in fact—but the difference lies in 
the details. 

Leonardo’s Cornerstone energy is the L/3, which means, like the other 
Leonardo, that he knew early in life where his interests lay, and in his case, it 
was in the direction of performing and also in protecting the environment. The 
numeric value of 3 lends the force of extra activity to both his brain and his 
body; Leonardo was likely always thinking about creating or creation, even as a 
youngster. His active curiosity about the things around him was likely intense 
and may have been part of the reason he was politely kicked out of Romper 
Room at age five. 

Both as a child and as an adult, Leonardo has always been influenced by the 
Cornerstone of the L/3. His instinct to be involved and active and to motivate or 
assist in any way will always be a strong part of his personality. Others will find 
him quite helpful, friendly, and open without being too aggressive or too 
personal. A deep part of the L/3 is not visible to outsiders, nor does it wish to 
invade the privacy of others. 

The balance of vibrations in his name continues with the sheer energy of the 
E/5, which adds an extra boost to anything (or anyone) that he likes (L) and can 
lead him to make connections based on impulse or the desire to help. The L is 
notorious for helping the right people for the wrong reasons and the wrong 
people for the right reasons, which can understandably lead to crossed wires and, 
sometimes, hurt feelings. By the same token, this LE combination can give 
LEnding a hand a whole new meaning. Similar to da Vinci, Leonardo relies on 
his senses when learning how to translate or communicate what he sees or feels 
(5), and the O/7 allows him to see things and express himself from an entirely 
unique perspective (this original energy phase would have peaked around age 
14, which would tie in with the time he began to be taken seriously in the world 
of performing—and it is also around that time that he landed his first agent). The 
N/S that follows introduces a variety of possibilities and exploration of 
emotional and sensory stimulations that are, fortunately, influenced by the 
calming nature of the N; many directions are possible and all are always fully 


investigated and given careful and logical consideration and assessment before 
any commitment is made. The placement of the A/1 energy indicates that certain 
projects or plans can affect the direction of Leonardo’s life. The first time this 
energy kicked in was when he was 21—the year of the Titanic. The A/1 energy 
allowed him to “pull ahead” of the masses—in this case, using a ship rather than 
more traditional methods of transportation. 

However, the follow-up R/2 phase does indicate disappointments along the 
way, particularly in the relationship department, and the D/4 doesn’t help 
matters. 

Like da Vinci, Leonardo does not seem anxious to marry (by his own 
admission), and the RD energy might go a long way in explaining why and 
might have something to do with being slightly disillusioned. And again, like Da 
Vinci, the final O/7 of Leonardo’s social energy speaks to the considerable 
legacy he is building and the opportunities that still lie ahead; it is almost as 
though there are more important things on Leonardo’s mind than marriage and 
its parameters. 

Leonardo’s sub number is 34—a steamroller kind of energy that can kick the 
legs out from under a chair and find a new way to build it that makes more 
sense. This is the same kind of energy as our first Leonardo and holds the same 
raw expression of the force of activity (3) driving straight through firm 
foundations (4). This energy is one that can introduce new concepts, ideas, and 
practical applications (7)—ones that can alter the direction of mankind or their 
behaviors and practices. Same message, different Leonardo. 

Leonardo’s Social Whole Name Number is a 7 (as are both his Total and Daily 
Name Numbers), and strongly suggests someone who is intellectually developed 
and who looks primarily to logical thought processes when considering various 
actions and reactions. But it also encompasses his spiritual side: in order to bring 
his complex characters to life, Leonardo would have had to access a deeply 
emotional and spiritual well—something he has already proven to be quite adept 
at doing—but on a social level, it would appear that this is one well he keeps 
closed, or at least well guarded, unless he is with trusted friends. Then the lid 
might come off. 


Inner Energy 


WILHELM (W/6, I/1, L/3, H/5, E/5, L/3, M/4) = 27/9 

While Leonardo DiCaprio, like most others, is not generally known by his 
middle name, it does give indications about his inner workings and essences. 
Here is a quick look at those energies. 

The Cornerstone of W/6 speaks to riding the waves and the ups and downs of 
life while maintaining a stoic and even temperament, but it also shows the deep 
desire for closeness, as the 6 refers to love in all its forms. This energy indicates 
that Leonardo will likely have a solid circle of friends and intimates, most of 
whom will be lifelong or long-term connections. 

The remaining energies that combine to form his Inner or Soul desires can be 
read as follows: the I of the intuition says that he reacts to those ups and downs 
by following his gut reactions and tries to appreciate the highs and lows of the 
roller coaster for what they are—part and parcel of life and lessons to be 
learnedL although the combination of L, H, E (double 5 values), and L can 
present a few interesting situations that might even set off a firework or two. 
(Notice the anagram within those letters?) 

Looked at from an Inner, or emotionally-based point of view, the L/3 is, 
among other things, very connected to friendship, love, assisting, and moving 
forward, and since there are two in this letter run, these qualities are emphasized. 
When the first L leads to the H, it faces a choice: positive or negative (up or 
down), and because the L is usually a positive energy, it would tend to go with 
the flow, meaning Leonardo would be open and willing to engage emotionally. 
Once the connection is made, the E is encountered. This dynamo throws 
excitement, risk, challenge, change, and stimulation of the senses into the 
picture. The more contrary double 5 vibrations of the HE will introduce an 
element of conflict into any relationship, as its chief meaning is one of 
independence. Hence, loving and caring emotions may indeed be engaged, but 
whether Leonardo wants to become engaged may be another matter entirely. 

There is an indecision of sorts within this name energy: part of it wants to 
climb that ladder, and the other part most definitely does not. The freedom of the 
5 plays a key role—this is not an energy that performs well when tied down or 
hindered in any way, yet the Cornerstone of Leonardo’s Inner Soul energy seems 
to contradict this in that it holds domesticity as important and even necessary to 


inner satisfaction. As a concluding energy, the M/4 pictures someone who might 
prefer to remain on the emotional sidelines; helping out when necessary, but 
ultimately more comfortable keeping his emotions under wraps. I will just say 
this: it is likely that Leonardo’s affections have been both up the ladder to 
Heaven and down the ladder to Hell. 

The Whole Name number for Wilhelm is 9 and signifies the theme of 
beginnings and endings. It reflects all of the soul experiences Leonardo has had 
and will have and points to a time when he will be ready to end something 
significant and begin something equally significant: the 9 is all about learning to 
understand that life itself is composed of a series of beginnings and endings that 
are designed to create and sustain the development of a truly good person. Once 
this threshold is reached, a certain freedom results. Leonardo is still a young man 
with plenty of room to grow; being the best he can be will take on many shapes 
and forms, and those will be up to him. 

The sub number for this name energy is 27, which shows an ongoing 
connection of pairs—whether they be people, places, or things—that are 
attached to the investigation of thoughts or anything sourcing back to the 
operations of the brain, logical or otherwise. Leonardo is not what I would 
normally call overly impulsive, but he is someone I would normally call logical. 
Hence, deep thought will be assigned prior to any important decisions. This 
number shows that Leonardo’s peak performances will come through 
connections with others (2), and that an element of intellectual illusion and 
mystery (7) is also present. There is something here I have seen before, and it 
relates to two elements (or groups of pairs) coming together to produce 
something of note. This could easily be read as a joining of minds whose focus is 
on the bigger picture in which logic, science, and spirituality are combined. I am 
not sure exactly how this will manifest in Leonardo’s life, but it will definitely 
be something of note and perhaps of consequence that reaches far beyond the 
parameters of his own life. 

Domestic Energy 

DICAPRIO (D/4, I/1, C/3, A/1, P/8, R/2, 1/1, 0/7) = 27/9 

And here we have yet another unusual energy aspect: Leonardo’s Domestic 
energy is an exact match to his Inner or Soul energy. While not normally viewed 


as overly important in analysis because of the connection to the male hierarchy 
of the family unit, this match does indicate an influence that steadfastly 
supported Leonardo’s goals and interests. His domestic energy is like a mirror of 
sorts that is connected to his sense of identity. However, the essence of 
beginnings and endings also lends a continuous theme of separation from the 
family unit—and it is known that although his parents did divorce while 
Leonardo was still young, they also continued to play active parts in raising him 
and in honoring his desires and predispositions. 

The Cornerstone for this domestic name is the D/4, an energy that presents 
choices in terms of which direction to pursue and which door to raise a fist to. 
This is a firm and grounded vibration (by virtue of the 4) that can be as stubborn 
as it is loyal. 

The letter energy that follows the D suggests that when opportunity knocked, 
the door was answered rather than ignored, and revealed a land of imagination, 
esoteric knowledge, and illusion in which the intuition played a key role (1/1: 
this energy is confirmed and strengthened by later repetition). This world of the 
imagination in turn reaches the C/3, which almost demands communication 
through its “open mouth”: any form of entertainment falls under its domain, but 
focus is required in order to bring this entertainment to life—that is supplied by 
the A/1, and the potential for success and power is on offer via the P/8. 

Unfortunately, the R/2 also shows trials and tribulations in close relationships, 
which can manifest in intimate or family realms, especially during formative 
years; this is when later adult patterns are set. The saving grace of this name 
energy is to be found in the second I/1 and in the O/7: these two energies are 
intuitive, progressive, open-minded, incredibly smart, discriminating, and 
objective. 

The Whole Name energy for DiCaprio is another 27/9, which shows an 
advanced energy at work within this unit despite the theme of starts and stops, or 
separations. It almost reads as a blueprint that was drawn out once, then 
attempted again at a later point in time. 

Leonardo succeeded based on the general blueprint laid down by his domestic 
name. 


Daily Name Number 


LEONARDO DICAPRIO (7+9) =16/7 
First sub numbers: (34+27) = 61 


Total Name Number 

LEONARDO WILHELM DICAPRIO (7+9+9) = 25/7 

First sub numbers: (34+27+27) = 88 Master Success (16/7) 

The reason I have listed these two calculations together is because they both 
total to the same number energy. The 7 is magickal in its applications. It can 
bring very good luck and very bad luck. In Leonardo’s case, its influence is 
positive, and with the supportive sub number of 88, the sky’s the limit. 

Either way you slice it, Leonardo DiCaprio is a 7 energy—a very close link to 
our first Leonardo, whose Social and Domestic energies are also 7. What this 
means is that the gifts Universe gave DiCaprio when he arrived are being 
perfectly pursued in his daily life. He is following his path rather faithfully. 

The 7 is ruled by the brain and is very articulate, intellectual, reserved, and 
dignified. Those who fall under its influence are often not truly known by others 
and are very private in general. The 7 has an exceptionally vulnerable interior 
that it works very hard at hiding or sometimes manages to suppress altogether. 
So, despite an outer appearance that may seem a little distant, Leonardo is 
actually very sensitive and compassionate. He is also, in many ways, very much 
like his namesake. 

The sub numbers here are reversals of one another: his Total Name sub 
number shows as 16 while his Daily Name sub number (the one more commonly 
used) shows as 61. What this means is that the same vibrations are present in 
each; however, his Universal gift shows the force of love, the ability to break 
through emotional walls (16), while his work on the Earth plane shows the love 
from which a new force flows (61). 


Lifepath Number 

November (11) + 11: 22 Master Builder 

Day: 11 Master Intuitive 

Once again, the Master Number energy potential is made evident and, in this 
case, quite directly. This Master 22 is actually formed by two Master 11 
vibrations. The Master 11 (or Intuitive/Visionary) lives in the world of 


imagination, illusion, esoteric truths, progressive tactics, and mystery; doubling 
this energy affords the 22 a phenomenal reach in terms of visions and plans and 
their implementation here in the Earth plane. Translated, this means that 
Leonardo has the ability to implement change on a vast and considerable level; 
he could well become one of the leading forces behind the movement to protect 
the planet. 

Once again, the Master 22 warning assigned to all who carry this energy must 
be mentioned. Awareness of the boundaries and parameters of proper conduct is 
paramount, as the high-level material wealth and success this vibration holds can 
lead to dramatic downfalls should this power be misused in any unethical way. 
Not that I think Leonardo needs this admonition. It just has to be said. 


Lifepath Day 

Leonardo’s specific entry is marked by Master 11. Quite frankly, this means that 
he is naturally connected to energies other than his own. It will be his lesson and 
challenge to harness and direct his intuition and to honor the unseen and his own 
(perhaps suppressed) desire to investigate the mysteries of life. 


Highest Letter and Number Count 

Leonardo’s highest letters show a tie between the energies I, L, and O. This 
would translate into a man who is more intuitive than he would perhaps care to 
admit and that this instinct guides him in many conscious and even subconscious 
ways. He is motivated to motivate; he is a born leader who would support his 
words with actions. More than that, Leonardo is an open soul and a natural 
helper and sees opportunities or options that are perhaps sometimes not visible to 
others. 

Leonardo’s highest number count shows a tie of 5 each between numbers 1 
and 7, which increases the strength of each number five times. Thus, the Original 
Force of the number 1 is akin to hurricane-force winds, and the activity in the 
brain is equal to the brainstorm of the century. Put in gentler terms, these 
numbers read as someone who is actively seeking the truth in all things. 


Identity Initial Code 
LWD (3+6+4) = 13/4 
And here is yet another connection back to Leonardo da Vinci—both Leonardos 


share the identical Identity code: 13/4, which allows access to the considerable 
power and mystery of the number 13: its presence usually suggests a frequency 
force that can produce quite noticeable results, both for good and ill. The number 
13 is a force of activity that is beyond powerful, and its electrical forces can 
produce fundamental and permanent changes. In this case, Leonardo’s force of 
activity is only beginning to produce fundamental and lasting changes in the area 
of greatest concern at the moment and could very well develop into a game plan 
that affects and directs the future habits of humanity. Another grandiose 
statement perhaps. Or perhaps not. Look at how this letter code can be read: the 
activity of body and mind (3) that is motivated by love and concern (6) and is of 
a foundational and fundamental nature (4). The result? A super-charged activity 
level (13) that effects/changes/improves the very elements of our home, the 
Earth (4). 


Words within Names 

This is just too much fun to pass up—aside from the obvious “Leo,” which 
makes me think of a lion—Leonardo also shows something interesting in his 
Inner name. Think of being at the HELM of a ship. Then think of the famous 
Titanic shot. The word CAP in DiCaprio also caught my attention and Leonardo 
is known for wearing baseball caps, but in particular, for wearing different caps 
to different games—and their selections seem to have more to do with their 
design appeal than with supporting either team playing. It just seems that he 
picks the one that matches his mood on any given game day. 


If you can do what you do best and be happy, you’re further along in life than 
most people. 
—Leonardo DiCaprio 


Drew Barrymore— 
Producer/Actor/Director/Model/Spokesperson 
Here is someone who became a superstar by age seven and a drug addict by age 
ten. Drew Barrymore presents the most remarkable success story—one that 
began when most kids are still playing childish games in school. 


Drew Blyth Barrymore was born February 22 (there’s that Master Number 
again), 1975, in Culver City, Los Angeles, to separated-and-later-divorced 
parents Jaid, an aspiring actress, and John Barrymore Jr., an addicted actor who 
lived the life of a hippie. 

With her birth into the Barrymore clan came instant mini-celebrity status and 
an almost-preordained entry into the world of show business. At eleven months, 
Drew completed her first television commercial, and at five earned her first big- 
screen credit alongside William Hurt in Altered States. But it was not until the 
release of the blockbuster E.T.: The Extraterrestrial (1982) that she gained 
national exposure. The cherubic and charming darling of this larger-than-life 
fantasy not only became an overnight sensation, she also began attending 
evening parties and popular nightclubs (often in the company of her mother) 
such as Studio 54 and the China Club, a turn of events that hardly missed the 
ever-attentive eyes of the media. A youngster out partying with adults was rather 
conspicuous, to say the least. After a few years of this mystifying behavior, 
Drew was labeled by the press as a “bad girl,” an out-of-control “wild child,” 
and she became more of a curiosity than anything else. 

During the years that followed, Drew grew from prepubescent child to 
complicated teen, and the two were hardly alike. While she might have found the 
over-the-top attention delightful to begin with, these celebrations had soon taken 
on nightmarish overtones. Drew had become addicted to the readily available 
“party favors” and eventually found herself fighting an apparently losing battle. 

At the age of fourteen, after a few failed attempts at sobriety, Drew 
communicated her distress in a rather straightforward manner: she cut her wrists. 
Fortunately, not only did she survive, she went on to gain control of her 
addictions within the year and followed up by petitioning the court for a 
“divorce” from her mother. Once recognized as a legal adult, Drew was free to 
manage her own career, financial affairs, and life in general. 

By the age when most teens are tentatively exploring the real world beyond 
the rather sheltering walls of school, Drew Barrymore had already achieved 
super stardom, partied with celebrities galore, traveled to the core of addictions, 
been exposed to all manner of negative media publicity, survived a suicide 
attempt, conquered her dependencies, divorced her mother, and co-written a 


bestselling book entitled Little Girl Lost, about her life and her addictions. It was 
published just three weeks shy of her seventeenth birthday. 

Her sheer strength of will and determination to gain control were key to her 
successes of the time—successes that were destined to continue. 

In a rather shrewd move, Drew followed the release of her book by 
capitalizing on her bad-girl image: she took on her first leading role by 
portraying a beautiful, bewitching, seductive, and very bad girl in 1992’s Poison 
Ivy (which also featured Leonardo DiCaprio). Although it did poorly at the box 
office, it did spawn two additional Poison Ivy films, but most importantly, at the 
time, it did what it had been designed to do: it re-introduced Drew to the public, 
but as an adult this time. Indeed, the child had morphed into a sexpot. To fortify 
this new image, Drew went on to pose nude for Interview magazine and 
continued to accept roles that required nudity and sensuality like Doppelganger 
(1993) and Bad Girls (1994). Also in 1994, Drew married bar owner Jeremy 
Thomas, a union that lasted less than two months. 

Her notoriety spiked when on April 12, 1995, during a guest appearance on 
the David Letterman show, she hopped onto the host’s desk, did a little dance 
and, with her back to the audience, flashed her (unwrapped) birthday present at 
the rather stunned but gracious birthday boy. 

During that same year, Drew appeared nude in Playboy, which her godfather, 
Steven Spielberg, appeared to take serious exception to. For her twentieth 
birthday, he sent her a quilt, a note, and the spread from Playboy ... all three 
bearing the same theme. The quilt read “cover yourself up,” as did the note, and 
the pictures spoke for themselves—they had been artistically altered to cover her 
up. Almost by design, Drew’s focus did seem to shift shortly thereafter. 

Within months, Drew had formed her own production company called Flower 
Films with her friend Nancy Juvonen. After 1996’s Scream, she began to aim at 
lighter roles, romantic comedies like The Wedding Singer (1998) and EverAfter 
(1998), which showcased her talents in completely new and refreshing ways 
while also revealing her penchant for comedy. She bumped it up a notch in 2000 
with her role as Dylan Sanders in a revival of the old television series Charlie’s 
Angels, which her company co- 
produced. The film was a smash hit with audiences and helped to establish 


Flower Films as a viable entity and Drew Barrymore as a woman of distinction. 

Drew’s second attempt at marriage took place in 2001, when she wed 
comedian Tom Green. Unfortunately, it too did not prove lasting: they divorced 
a short time later. More films and projects followed as well, and, in February of 
2004, Drew was recognized as a Barrymore in her own right—she was awarded 
a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. This was also the year during which 
Drew reconciled with her dying father, whom she had rarely seen as a child or 
while growing up; some things had come full circle. 

Since then, Drew has been involved on various levels in various projects and 
is acknowledged and recognized as a multi-talented, irrepressible, and creative 
force in the entertainment industry. 

In 2007, Drew became the new face of Gucci, signed a lucrative deal with 
Cover Girl as a model/spokesperson and as co-creative director of the initial 
campaign, and was featured on the cover and in the top spot of People’s 100 
Most Beautiful. Later, she directed her first film, 2009’s Whip It, which Flower 
Films also co-produced. Already the recipient of dozens of nominations and 
independent awards, in 2010 Drew saw sophisticated acknowledgment of her 
talent: she won both a Golden Globe and a Screen Actor’s Guild award for her 
part in HBO’s Grey Gardens. 

One of the most important aspects of Drew’s off-screen life began in 2005 
when she made the first of two journeys to Kenya to view the plight of those 
living there. In 2007, the World Food Programme (WFP) named Drew as their 
Ambassador Against Hunger and on March 3, 2008, during an appearance on 
Oprah, Drew announced a personal donation of one million dollars to the 
organization, which suggests a heart that is obviously as open as her pocketbook. 
She also works with Much Love Animal Rescue. Compassion for the less 
fortunate is evidently a built-in commodity when it comes to this Piscean heart, 
but so too is promoting personal power, which she has done by working with 
organizations focused on encouraging young people to vote. 

Despite dealing with situations and emotional trenches deep enough to drown 
a full-grown adult, this sweet child star went on to become one of the most 
captivating, charming, recognized, respected, admired, and successful women in 
the world. Here are the reflections of this resolute energy in numbers and letters. 


DREWBLYTH BARRYMORE 


4256 23145 212214725 


=17 =15 =26 

=§8 = 6 =§8 
Sub # Total Name # 
58/13/4 

22 22 


DREW BARRYMORE 


4256 212214725 


=17 =26 
=§8 = 8 

Sub # Daily Name # 
43 


February 22 Sub# Lifepath # 


2 22 24 6 


Day of Birth: 22 Master Builder 

As in previous samples, I am immediately drawn to the two Master Number 
elements in Drew’s chart: one as her Total Name Number or Universal Gift, and 
the other as her Day of Birth, or the specific energy upon which she was 
“delivered.” These Master 22 Builder essences are undoubtedly responsible for 
her ongoing drive to create: to build and to manifest what she sees as appropriate 
for her and for others. (You have surely noticed the many 22 energies contained 
in these sample reads? This serves to underscore the validity of the power held in 
Master Numbers: oftentimes, chosen careers or actions will result in fame; 22 is 
the architect who just cannot stop building, and the primary goal is to reach a 
level of achievement that allows assistance to be offered to others.) 

If one looks further into the elemental 4 that the 22 operates as when not “on,” 
it becomes evident that this energy carries significant impact in Drew’s life and 
its construction. In addition to standing as her Social Cornerstone, it is also 
doubled to 8 in several places (including in her Identity Initials and her Social 
and Domestic Whole Name Numbers) and elevated to Master 22 in others. The 4 
refers to the basic fundamentals of life and how strong they are or become—it 
plays with the building blocks of life. This feels as though Drew had to lay her 
own foundations in spite of or perhaps because of the strength of her family 
name. And she has done so. And will continue to do so. 

A final connective note comes in the shape of the 6. This loving, nurturing, 
compassionate, and caring energy sits at the core of Drew’s being (in her Soul 
energy or middle name) and is also her Lifepath Number. Drew is here to learn 
how to pinpoint, define, and experience personal true love—and will have to 
undergo all of the pain, confusion, and joy such a journey entails. 


Whole Name Numbers 

Social Energy 

DREW (D/4, R/2, E/5, W/6) = 17/8 

Drew’s social Cornerstone energy assigns her the resoluteness, strength, and 
tenacity the D/4 represents. As you know, the D is the Door and it can stand 
open just as easily as closed; it represents the ins and outs of opportunity while 
its companion, the 4, often refers to family and foundational issues. Since this 
energy is her “welcoming” one, so to speak, it can portend difficulties in terms 
of fundamental issues within the home—for Drew, some doors were open while 
others were closed and destined to remain that way. The divorce of her parents 
and absence of her father kept two of those doors firmly closed (she rarely saw 
her father before their already-mentioned reconciliation and therefore did not 
have the opportunity to watch healthy interactions between loving parents). 

Since the Cornerstone will always exert influence over the entire energy 
dynamic, this D will both help and hinder Drew. It is not an overly movable 
essence, but it can instill the Drive and Determination required to break down 
obstacles and blocked passages. Despite her cheerful demeanor, Drew is actually 
very much influenced by the 8 (a double 4) of her Whole Name Number. This 
gives her the power, authority, and intelligence to succeed materially, and by 
jumping ahead to her Inner Soul energy, which is that of the loving number 6, it 
becomes clear that Drew has the ability to reach a rare position: that of a 
spiritually and materially balanced energy, which is the goal of the developed 8. 
When engaged, this is the energy state in which anything becomes possible and, 
indeed, probable. Having two of these energies (Social and Domestic) can 
introduce some conflict, yes, but that is on a more personal familial level and is 
something Drew herself will come to terms with in her own way ... and maybe 
she already has. 

The balance of her Social energies are the R/2, E/5, and W/6. The presence of 
the R/2 is not an initially overly optimistic vibration: this is the one that refers to 
the successful formations of lasting and resilient relationships—from family 
members to friends to lovers—and the conflicts, tests, and indecisions attached 
to them. The R/2 cores back to our very first (usually parental) connections and 
relationships and the forms they took, or didn’t take. These core patterns are 


reflected in our adult relationships and can put us through rather severe 
challenges until we make peace with their role models. 

Drew’s first run-through of these energies would have taken place from birth 
to around age 6, and then came the E/5 or an explosion of epic proportions 
(E.T.). But that was then. On a daily basis, this E represents Drew’s bubbly, 
excited love of life and her eager embrace of new and different things, ideas, and 
even people. She values her independence, likes to be self-supporting, and 
enjoys stimulation of all kinds. Her life is and always will be prone to changes, 
which she actually welcomes. Boredom is not something Drew will put up with 
for long; she really is the free spirit that she seems to be. This love of life and 
certain impulsiveness is likely what led her to agree to two brief marriages and 
supports the fact that the R/2 and E/5 is not an overly fortunate combination of 
energies, especially on the romantic front. The E takes the “testing” of the R 
(partnerships, marriages, close connections) to new levels, and experiencing 
these periods is not what I would call particularly reassuring. But once Drew has 
been through a variety of different styles and types of relationships and has 
learned her likes and dislikes and her rights and wrongs within them, she will 
find her place and her true-love connection; for once the lessons have been 
learned and accepted, the R rolls in Recovery, Redemption, and Refreshing 
Rewards, which normally manifest as newfound relationships that make the 
whole lesson worthwhile. 

The final W/6 brings us to the emotional ups and downs of its proverbial roller 
coaster and refers to the peaks and valleys, the negatives and positives that are 
found in all emotional attachments. Drew is all about connections made and 
connections lost, but she is not one to give up. She will hang on and ride it out, 
but only if it is something she feels is worth hanging on to, for whatever reasons. 
The most common of these will be out of loyalty. The W sticks around if trust is 
involved no matter how rough the trip. Not surprising since the W is represented 
by the Waters of love and emotional ties. Its presence is reassuring in this name 
energy, as it is indicative of long-lasting companionships that are based on 
cooperation and dedication. Drew is likely to have several committed friends and 
even business connections who will stick around through thick and thin—like 
Drew herself will. 


Drew’s Social Name Total is an 8, as is her Domestic, or last name. Double 8 
values carry enormous power and potential; however, as already touched on, 
there is also the probability of conflict (which in this case would be carried 
between her Social persona and her Domestic roots), which can only be 
neutralized if the balance point between the two is found. Despite the power held 
in both names, I feel there is a need for complete distinction between the two, 
and therein may lie the contradiction or conflict. 

Drew likes to be in control, but in a gentle way, and she does not respond well 
to those who tag onto her because of her name rather than who she is as a 
person. So there can be a bit of a conflict for Drew herself—between who she is 
as a person and who others might expect her to be because of the Barrymore 
name. 

The goal of the developed 8 is to reach a plateau upon which the elements of 
life are equally distributed, or balanced, and that includes everything from 
Drew’s friends to her relationships to her (spiritual) state of mind. Mind over 
matter. And her Social Number energy is supported by her brain, her mind, and 
her thought processes. The sub number 17 (the force of the brain) lends Drew 
the ability to detach emotionally and to apply logic to any given situation or 
circumstance—an admirable ability for one so soft-centered. While the 17 is 
hardly a weak-willed number, it is also one that invites investigation into the 
deeper and quieter realms of the imagination: reality and illusion; fact and 
fiction; life and death. Drew will likely find her interests in those areas growing 
over the years; after all, her Daily Name is the magickal number 7. 


Inner Energy 

BLYTH (B/2, L/3, Y/1, T/4, H/5) = 15/6 

Again, this is not a name that Drew is commonly known by, but it does reveal a 
more detailed look at her Inner or Soul energies. 

The Cornerstone of this name is the B/2, which translates into the search for 
the “other half” or the perfect union. However, since it is also a “closed’ energy, 
there can also be a certain withholding when it comes to relationships (the 
number 2 is the strongest number element in Drew’s chart, which we will see 
later). So while at heart Drew is ruled by the duality and normal disagreements 
that arise in any kind of union, she is also a very loving and giving energy (L/3). 


At the very core (or heart) of her Inner essence is the Y/1, that fork in the road. 
The first time she would have experienced this change in direction would have 
been just prior to the release of E.T.—an event that changed her life and its 
direction in no uncertain terms, which is the precise meaning of the Y. But this 
letter energy can also indicate another situation altogether. The Y can point to an 
uncertainty, a confusion; a “which way do I go” type of energy. Since it follows 
the BL, it almost reads as in order to find her true BLiss, Drew may well choose 
an untraveled or just different road or direction at some point in her life, and this 
will likely involve something to do with her personal life and its contents. (The 
B and L are emotionally charged and loving energies having to do with 
expressions of caring and the willingness to give.) 

The balance of her Inner Soul energies are the T/4 and the H/5. While the T 
throws additional and increasing forces into the mix and thereby underscores the 
undeniable changes any shift in direction might bring, the H is where she will 
likely face something having to do with commitment to her chosen direction, 
however it might manifest. 

The Whole Name energy of Blyth is an exact match to Drew’s Lifepath: the 
domestic and nurturing number 6. However, her sub number here is quite telling 
in that it forecasts the “force of changes” (15), which are necessary in order for 
this love energy to fully manifest itself. Since 5 is also connected to fame, it is 
likely that she will find her soul mate within that realm, but this sub number can 
influence the 6, making it more likely that a soul connection will take time 
simply because its essence is one of constant change. 

Drew is nothing if not a true “love bug,” which is my favorite expression for 
one under the domain of the 6. She is kind, soft-hearted, sensitive, open, 
approachable, compassionate, and generous, and because her Lifepath is also a 
6, she is here to experience the truths about love in all its forms, whether they 
include art, music, fine foods, nature, or people. Drew is destined to seek out and 
experience the best of the best. 

What makes her different from other 6 energies is that she is ruled by its 
formative energies of 2, which means people are important to her—and this 
means all people, not just those within her circle. The following L is, as already 
mentioned, a giving and helpful energy. She will want to (and already has) reach 


out to help others. Not because she feels obligated, but because helping others 
lies at the core of who she is. 


Domestic Energy 

BARRYMORE 

(B/2, A/1, R/2, R/2, Y/1, M/4, O/7, R/2, E/5) = 26/8 

Once again, we are looking at yet another B/2 as a Cornerstone, so the same 
energy of Drew’s Inner Soul is connected to her family hierarchy—in particular, 
to the male history attached to the name. The duality and sometimes “closed” 
energy of the B points once more to the process of finding and blending with the 
perfect mate and achieving balance in relationships by learning how to 
compromise. There are four 2 values in this name and three of them are the 
relationship-oriented R. (Worthy of note is that two of these form a Subtle 
Master 22, a possible indication of conflict within the family’s core unit and also 
of the position of the family within its community, which would mean that the 
outside view of the family was likely one of status and accomplishment.) 

So while the Domestic name is not usually of major import in analysis, this 
case stands as a bit of an exception, the reason being that the family history itself 
is significant and that Drew also carries the identical Total Name energy in her 
Social or first name: double 8 values show a power struggle of sorts. It is as 
though, on some level, Drew may feel the need to establish herself in no 
uncertain terms as a breed apart (from her famous relatives)—to establish herself 
as her own unique entity and talent that is not connected to or spun-off from 
another thread. This does not mean she desires to separate from her family or its 
history, rather, that she is her own person with her own history and talents and 
wishes to be accepted and recognized as such. 

The presence of four 2 values (one of them a Cornerstone) makes a strong 
statement regarding core relationships and the patterns set long ago and their 
affects upon Drew when it comes to forming new and successful ones. This 
theme was introduced to Drew even before she was old enough to understand 
what was missing from her young life and has shown up so many times in her 
read that it is impossible to ignore. 

One likely cause of relationship issues is to be found in the center of the 
Barrymore name itself: the Y/1 is the fork in the road and reads as a point of 


departure or separation, whether by choice or by force, and often manifests as 
break-ups and divorces. The Barrymore clan shows a history of divorces, 
including Drew’s great-grandfather, Maurice Costello (who shares Drew’s 
birthday, by the way), who married twice; her grandfather, John Barrymore, who 
married four times; and her own father, John Drew Barrymore, who married 
three times. Drew herself followed suit by marrying and divorcing twice before 
the age of 28. When found in the center of a Domestic name, the Y/1 is not 
representative of a stable core energy. 

The balance of the vibrations in Barrymore include the A/1, M/4, O/7, and 
E/5. The A offers focused ambition; the M can gloss over details and hide many 
things; the O presents plenty of opportunity; and the E just adds extra energy to 
the entire picture. But the one thing that is consistent within this name energy is 
its commitment to love, as shown in the sub number 26. 

Once more, the final comment on this name energy is summed up in the 
powerful and oftentimes controlling vibration of the 8, which can be read two 
ways: one will either have the control and lose it or have the control and keep it, 
something that seems to apply especially to the male figures in this family as 
both scenarios have occurred. 

Drew Barrymore has the power, the control, and the means to attain material 
evidence of success, and she also has the compassion the fully developed 8 
requires in order to keep it. If the spiritual road is further pursued, she is poised 
to step into its fullest and finest spiritual potential, and as such, she is, indeed, a 
breed apart. 


Daily Name Number 

DREW BARRYMORE (8+8) = 16/7 

First sub numbers: (17+26) = 43 

Drew’s Daily Name is a unique combination of double 

8 values, as already noted. This supplies her with vast 

opportunities for both material and spiritual gain, authority, and status. It also 
forms a Subtle Master Number (88—Master Success). Similar to Leonardo 
DiCaprio, Drew has the ability to succeed beyond her own wildest dreams. 
Anyone who has seen Drew on film or being interviewed already knows that her 
heart is as big as they come, which is a necessity before the positive and fully 


formed 8 will realize the immensity of the fortune laid at its feet. Drew does 
carry the capacity to understand the temporariness of “things,” and since her 
Lifepath reflects the open and true heart of a lover (as opposed to a fighter), she 
has one of the highest chances of experiencing the awesome serenity and success 
that accompanies true and lasting personal satisfaction. 

The first sub number of Drew Barrymore totals to a 43, which suggests 
foundations already in existence (4) that are rearranged, recreated, and rebirthed 
(3). This is indicative of mind over matter. Drew’s presence of mind helped her 
to restructure her life in spite of patterns and examples already set. 

Her Main sub number of 16 shows the gentle undercurrents that will tend to 
lead her towards her goal rather than away from it; the “force of love and ability 
to break through walls” of the 16 energy is what motivates her. Drew is a force 
unto herself who has the power and determination to break through cycles and 
boundaries. This is one lady who has the ability to do tremendous things, and is 
another worth watching since she is still young and her future is unwritten. 

Drew’s Daily Name is a 7, fitting, I think, as that was her age when everything 
changed—forever. On a more contemporary note, she is at once a blend of 
enticing mystery and careful planning, which is evident when one looks back 
over the decisions she made and the directions she took following her near fall 
from grace as a child. The mind is a compelling tool and Drew knows how to 
use hers. She is much more intellectual than she perhaps lets on and can be 
reserved and somewhat distant at times, but that is when she does her deepest 
thinking. Since the 7 is of a dual nature and its lesson is to honor both sides of 
the brain, she is likely as open to her intuition as she is to the unusual, the 
unique, and the esoteric. There is an odd contrariness to the 7: one half is strictly 
practical and proper while the other is fascinated by the world of metaphysics 
and spirituality. There is much more to this lady than anyone realizes or can 
even see. Beneath her bubbly exterior lies a brilliant, imaginative, and highly 
progressive mind that is intrigued by many more topics than anyone might ever 
suspect. 

Total Name Number 


DREW BLYTH BARRYMORE (8+6+8) = 22 Master Builder 
First sub numbers: (17+15+26) = 58/13/4 


We have seen the Master 22 fairly often in this short list of samples; often 
enough to gain a clearer understanding of its elevated energy potentials and the 
results thereof. This is indeed the number of building, of constructing, of 
foundations that are firm enough to hold whatever is added to them. This number 
is often found in the lives of celebrities, whether they belong to the 
entertainment world or another department of social interaction. When utilized 
correctly and not taken for granted or ignored, this vibration 

will leave an imprint upon our reality. The potential for larger-than-life 
impressions and legacies is likely and even probable among strong 22 energies. 

Universe gifted Drew Barrymore with the ability to dig deep, to manifest, to 
deliberately use her brain and her will to create something real and tangible for 
others to enjoy. In her case, this translates in a variety of ways, from entertaining 
to providing a role model for those addicted. Her struggles of youth and her 
victory over them provides an upstanding example of courage, dedication, and 
faith while her continued personal achievements and work with the less fortunate 
cements her growing reputation as a person of moral and ethical standards who 
is worthy of note and respect. 

Her sub numbers of 58, 13, and 4 are commentaries that can be read thusly: 
the fame game was one she needed to, at a young age, gain control over in a 
lasting way (5 = fame and 8 = control) and the 13 offered her two options—to 
follow the karmic lead of her forefathers or to gather the “force of 
actions/activities” close to her heart and make her own decisions. 

The final message of the 4 brings us back to the observations made at the start 
of Drew’s read. The number 4 and its various shapes found throughout her 
analysis indicate that Drew Barrymore had a choice: build her own foundations 
or follow the blueprints laid out by some of her ancestors. 

Thankfully, Drew chose to lay her own foundations. 


Lifepath Number 

February (02) + 22 = 24/6 

Day: Master 22 The Master Builder 

Drew’s Inner Soul essence is firmly anchored to her Lifepath, which means, in 
simple speak, that her heart’s desire (experiencing the reality that love is found 
through helping/loving others) is exactly in line with the reason she is here—to 


understand the various intricacies of love and the many forms it takes and to 
learn that attempting to label or organize or compartmentalize love is a losing 
proposition. It is what it is. 

Drew is destined to follow her heart wherever it may choose to lead her, and 
although she must surrender to those inclinations, she must also recognize her 
own limitations. Put another way, she must also learn not to lose herself in the 
process. 

The sub number of 24 comments further on the foundations created by units of 
2—Drew has built her world into large groups of connections, each with its own 
function but to which the same loving energy of the 6 is applied. 

The number 6 is very appreciative of and drawn to all things beautiful. They 
value a splendid painting as much as a fine piece of crystal and often prefer to 
present themselves as nicely as possible. Drew Barrymore is a work of art—one 
that has yet to be completed. 


Day of Birth: 22 The Master Builder 

Much has been already addressed in regard to this Master Number Universe 
gifted to Drew (as reflected in her Total Name Number). It is also the specific 
energy upon which she traveled into this world. Drew has the tools and the 
imagination required to build her life as she sees fit, and fame and fortune have 
already found her. The only direction she is likely to continue building is up, 
which is why the following caveat bears repeating. 

Since Drew has done a large amount of her own life construction, I doubt 
there is cause for concern; however, one final time, it must be said. The warning 
is simple and to the point: once significant achievements have been made, 
attention must still be paid to the base (or basement) structures, which are 
commonly seen as ethics or morals. These base elements, if not properly 
maintained, can easily shift, and we all know what can happen if buildings shift 
off of their bases. Again, not something I believe Drew has to worry about, but 
worth mentioning. The extreme powers held in Master Numbers can swing both 
ways—sometimes unexpectedly. 


Highest Letter and Number Count 
The most potent letter energy in Drew’s name is the R/2. The Barrymore name, 


which is heavy in R energy and points to difficulties in relationships, has been 
recognized and celebrated for over a century, and its energy influences witnessed 
by millions. The high rate of divorces and separations and battles with drugs and 
alcohol within the family were common knowledge. Drew is also under the R/2 
influences, but she has traveled through them several times and has come out a 
survivor. 

The one thing I do want to reiterate about the R is its resuscitative and 
restorative qualities. Once the root lesson of understanding the rights and wrongs 
involved in any personal relationship (whether it be with the self or with 
another) is at long last learned and assimilated, the R can also present a time of 
refreshing rebirth and release. This usually occurs a little bit later in life as the R 
transits are difficult ones to truly master. However, it is also usually then that 
most hard-working R energies will finally find their soul mates ... in the mirror 
first and then in the physical form of another. 

Fittingly enough, the highest number energy is the 2, which ties in with the 
R/2 but with an additional message. The 2 is not complete if it is only 1. The 2 
needs its other half. That is the focus of the 2: to join, to unite, and to balance the 
picture. Drew is a people-person who likely has an extended family, which is 
perhaps even larger than her own. She needs to love and, like everyone else, to 
be loved. As such, she is open and willing to learn about interactions and 
emotional intimacies and stands the best chance at reaching the rewards at the 
end of the R challenge. 


Identity Initial Code 

DBB (4+2+2) = 8 Balance: Matter vs. Spirit 

The two 8 values found in Drew’s Social and Domestic Total Name Number 
energies are reflected here, too. It’s as though the feeling I had while doing this 
read, that Drew Barrymore’s name energy is larger than the sum of its parts, has 
been confirmed. The 8 represents the lemniscate, the symbol for eternity and 
infinity, and Drew’s name is filled with direct and indirect references to this 
essence and its symbol. She may well be one of the first Barrymores to truly 
understand the concept that true peace is only gained through the release of 
control and the embracing of Faith, the healthiest infrastructure known to man. 
Drew seeks eternal balance in all things, and chances are good that she will find 


it. 
I believe in fate. I believe that everything happens for a reason, but I think it’s 


important to seek out that reason—that’s how you learn. 
—Drew Barrymore 


[contents] 


conclusion 


MI any years ago, I was given a gift and asked to pass it along, which I have 
now done—to you, dear reader. In honor of that initial request, I 
respectfully ask you to do the same. Sharing knowledge is the greatest gift of all 
and now that you are free to be who you are and to feel good about it, you have 
also become a gift to others. Mass consciousness is composed of people like you 
and me and if we feel good about ourselves, others will feel good while in our 
company and will transmit that same energy to those they cross paths with later, 
which essentially creates a domino effect— a smile in LA can lead to a hug in 
China. 

Chaldean name analysis offers us the chance to explore ourselves and to 
accept what we find as intrinsic to who we are. As a result, we come into our 
own power and just naturally become happier people. Happier people think 
happier thoughts, and that energy is picked up and carried into the energy 
matrix, which produces a happier matrix. 

Since we know that every thought and emotion registers with Universe, I 
invite everyone who reads this to send out their own form of positive energy—it 
can be to someone specific or to the world in general. It just takes a moment, and 
if you doubt its effectiveness, I promise you that Universe doesn’t; energy is 
energy and you are a conduit, just like everyone else. Imagine how the 
atmosphere on Earth would change if routinely charged with loving and positive 
ions, and then imagine how that might reflect back upon us and our environment 
—literally. 

The Chaldeans seemed focused on rising above the limits of the physical mind 
and body to become closer to the Divine. I say that Heaven is right here on Earth 
and that it is up to us to do some gardening—starting in our own back yards. So 
pull some weeds and plant new seeds, and I will do the same. Together, we can 
bring the dream to life. 

Until we meet again, I leave you in light, in love, and in peace. 


Happy people are beautiful. They become like a mirror and they reflect that 


happiness ... if someone is giving of their spirit and they make you laugh and 
feel good, that’s a whole other level of beauty. 
—Drew Barrymore, People magazine, April 2007 


[contents] 


glossary 


Acceptance: Spiritual term referring to the personal understanding that we are 
all created exactly according to plan. Perceived imperfections are not flaws; 
they are inherent to our individual designs. 


Alchemy: Ancient practice of attempting to transform base metals into gold and 
ideally creating an “elixir” of immortal life in the process. 


Alpha and Omega: The first and last letters of the ancient Ionic Greek alphabet. 
Also used in spiritual terms to describe the “be all and end all,” the entire 
picture, the beginning and the end, and all points in between. 


Astrology: Literal practice of tracking the positions of the stars and using these 
celestial bodies as tools of divination or forecasting. This is where the signs of 
the Zodiac are “drawn” as sky patterns. (See Divination.) 


Awakening: Spiritual term that refers to becoming aware of other levels of 
energy and the existence of a “higher” power. 


Bermuda Triangle: Plenty of ships and planes have disappeared without 
apparent reason within the boundaries of Miami, Bermuda, and Puerto Rico. 
The term was coined by the media around 1964, and it stuck. Some say the 
lack of debris, the clear weather, and the calm seas are proof that something 
about the disappearances within this triangle is mysterious and dangerous, 
while others say many of these occurrences can be scientifically explained and 
that there is nothing mysterious about them at all. 


Blueprint: The fundamental elements of our human and spiritual auras as 
reflected in our names, numbers, and Lifepaths. Another form of this aura can 
also be seen in the colors surrounding our bodies. 


Butterfly Effect: This theory suggests that a small action can alter the course of 
events some distance away and is linked to the idea of cause and effect: all 
energy is connected, and every action has a reaction. Therefore, the flap of 
butterfly wings in British Columbia might be linked to a hurricane in the 
Tropics. 


Cornerstone: The first letter of any given person, place, or thing. The 
Cornerstone shows the strongest overall essence of the word itself and is what 
your Identity Initial Code is made up of. 


Cosmic Catalog: Often used in conjunction with the Law of Attraction to 
reference the willingness of the Universal or Cosmic mind to give us that 
which is needed to improve the life. Our positive thoughts (and even magickal 
undertakings) are sometimes likened to “placing an order” with this catalog. 


Cosmic Mind: This is another way of addressing the power of God, the Divine, 
Spirit, or Universal Consciousness. 


Cosmic School: This relates to the idea that we are all here to learn a specific set 
of lessons and are actually attending a learning center which, while of this 
Earth plane, is actually “run” by higher level energies. 


Cuneiform: This is one of the first forms of writing, or rather, printing. Used in 
Babylonian times, its symbols look rather like nails with wedge-shaped heads. 


Current Energy Phase: A method of counting through each name until you 
reach your current age. These letters are then grouped to form a code, totaled, 
and studied for the letter and number energy messages they hold, and for 
which vibrations are affecting you the most at present. 


Cycle or Pattern: Situations and/or relationships that repeat themselves in style 
and content. For example, if you are in your third abusive relationship, you are 
in a cycle that needs to be broken before you can move on. 


Daily Name: The name you are most commonly called, for example, John 
Smith. The Daily Name does not include the middle name. 


Déja vu: Déja vu refers to that odd feeling of having experienced an event 
before or having been in a particular place before—even if you know this is 
not so. The term originates with the French and translates as “already seen.” 


Direct Number: This happens when a name does not have more than a total 
value of 9; there are no sub numbers prior to the Whole Name Number. For 
example, “Amy” is 1+4+1 and equals a direct 6. 


Divination: Divination methods include gazing into crystal balls, throwing 
runes, and pulling Tarot cards, and all are aimed at seeking guidance from a 


higher source. We ask for signs from the Divine, hence, divination. (See 
Divine.) 

Divine: This is another way of saying God, Spirit, or Universe and connects to 
unexpected blessings and the absolute trust placed in something unseen. Also 
used when referencing information whose source cannot be readily explained. 


DNA Activation Code 11:11: Because of the number 1’s connection to original 
forces, four of these energies in a row would point to fundamental and 
foundational changes that are caused by a combination of powerful but 
separate forces. It is believed that while we now function on two strands of 
DNA, we once did so with twelve, which would have allowed for a much 
more advanced state of health in the body, mind, and spirit. Some believe this 
advance in our genetic structure (from two to twelve or more) will occur 
naturally over time. Others believe the time for activation is now and that 
11:11 is a “code” and that activation can be encouraged through energy work 
that cleans and reprograms our belief systems. (See DNA Helix.) 


DNA Helix: Deoxyribonucleic Acid (DNA) is our individual genetic 
information code that is contained within a twisted ladder-type shape called a 
double helix. These codes are passed down to our children and help to explain 
why a son looks so much like his dad or why a daughter sounds just like her 
mom. 


Dowsing (Rod): Here is another ancient practice that involves a forked branch 
held by the forked end and used to locate things that are hidden. It is believed 
that the user or seeker energetically connects to that which is sought and that 
the rod moves to indicate its placement or location. (See Pendulum.) 


Easter Island: This tiny island (approximately 15 miles long and 10 miles wide) 
lies thousands of miles off the coast of Chile in the South Pacific Ocean— 
literally in the middle of nowhere. When it was discovered by a Dutch captain 
in the 1700s, it was completely deserted save for hundreds of massive stone 
statues, some of which stood at least thirty feet tall and weighed several tons. 
Who lived there, how the stones were moved and erected, and why still 
remains a mystery. 


Ego: The ego is our sense of self. It allows us to set and pursue goals, to develop 


personalities in which many things can manifest—not the least of which are 
pride, greed, envy, and also confidence, consciousness, and personality. It 
allows us to feel in control of our own lives and even superior to others. The 
ego is one of the main detractors in the search for spiritual connections, as it 
must be released (or at least subdued) in order to find true serenity and faith. 


Energy: Energy is everywhere: it is electrical, radiant, nuclear, and spiritual. 
Energy is the flow of creation and movement and must be balanced to be 
positive. That applies to the human form as well—as above, so below. 
Allowing yourself to be an open conduit for energy flow is the key to spiritual 
growth. 


Esoteric: That which is hidden or not immediately available to all. Mystic, 
occult, and spiritual knowledge that is specific to certain groups or subjects. 


Faith: The unfailing belief in that which cannot be seen or proven, as in God or 
the Divine, and that “everything happens for a reason”—reasons we may not 
be aware of but nevertheless take “on faith.” One of the major spiritual support 
systems of mankind. 


Flower of Life: Sacred Geometry sits at the base of this venerable design, which 
consists of a series of overlapping circles and can be found in various places 
throughout the ancient world. It contains mysteries beyond what can be 
discussed here, but this circular maze is our picture of how the mind of the 
Universe might look. It is said that wearing a Flower of Life pendant can 
improve one’s mental and physical state of well-being. 


Frequency: This is used in reference to the energy levels projected by individual 
groups of letter or number energies, as in “what’s your vibe?” 


Hieroglyphics: One of the first forms of writing. Ancient Egyptian symbol 
script often used actual images or pictures while detailing a story or 
transcribing historical events. The idea of picture images is closely tied to the 
“reading” of symbols in our current alphabet and therefore to Chaldean 
numerology. 


Holistic: Often heard in healing circles, holistic includes the whole picture. The 
condition of body, mind, and spirit are included and considered when 


choosing or performing healings. 


Identity Initials: Simply put, your initials and their numeric total. This total 
presents an overall view of your vibrations. 


Immortality: To gain eternal life; to never die. This can refer to the human form 
or to continued existence after the death of the physical body. 


Intuition: This is that inner feeling that warns us of impending danger or that 
something is not quite right about a situation or person. The intuition is our 
sixth sense, is connected to Universe, and is never wrong. 


Kaleidoscope: In spiritual terms, this word refers to the beauty and adaptability 
of the human spirit. In the mundane world, this is a long optical device that 
displays brilliant colors when rotated. 


Karma: As you sow, so shall you reap. Karma is from the Sanskrit and means to 
do, to make—action, word, or deed—and refers to past life actions within 
these parameters. Negative karma is believed to remain attached to the soul 
after death and is thus carried into new incarnations, where reparations must 
be made, or balance re-instated. 


Kundalini: Once again of Sanskrit origin, the Kundalini is often pictured as a 
sleeping snake curled at the base of the spine. The objective of spiritual 
healing and other modalities is to awaken this sleeping giant so it may support 
the quest for enlightenment. 


Law of Attraction: An age-old concept that was given a modern name, the Law 
is simple in that what you think and what you say will attract and dictate your 
circumstances. Positive to positive and negative to negative. Becoming aware 
of your thoughts does take some practice, but it does work. 


Lemniscate: The symbol for infinity or perfect balance; it looks like the number 
8 on its side. The lemniscate is endless; it travels the same graceful curves 
forever and forms two loops that are mirror images of each other. Its meaning 
is balance in all things and therefore, perfect control. 


Letter Energies: These are symbols (similar to hieroglyphics) that stand for 
particular things—like characteristics, tendencies, and sometimes events. Each 
letter stands for something different and forms a “picture” when linked 


together in a word or name. 


Ley Lines: This term refers to a series of ancient areas—such as Stonehenge and 
the Pyramids—that are reputed to be highly charged with energy and to be 
interconnected via invisible energy strands, or ley lines. 


Lifepath: The combination of your day and month of birth reduces to the 
number essence of your Lifepath, which suggests the reasons why you are 
here and what to do about it. The Lifepath is the lesson (or set of lessons) you 
must learn in order to graduate to the next level or phase of existence. 


Magick: This is beyond magic—this is magic that is kaleidoscopic in nature. It 
takes the element of mystery and elevates it to one of awe and wonder. At the 
core of this magick is nature and working with its energies in a productive and 
respectful manner. 


Major Arcana: Refers to the twenty-two cards of the tarot that represent major 
life events. 


Manifest: This is what happens when you learn how to focus your thoughts 
upon something needed. There is definitely something magickal about seeing 
something manifest just as you pictured it. (See Law of Attraction.) 


Master Numbers: Refers to double-digit numbers 11, 22, 33, and so on that 
have the potential to create or motivate in more powerful ways than their root 
numbers. Master numbers are the movers and shakers of the number scale and 
are the only numbers not reduced in name analysis. 


Matrix: While the proper description of a Matrix is usually a series of 
interconnected lines and rows, to me, this is a grid of either electricity or mass 
consciousness or spirituality or all three that encompasses the Earth. 
Something about this Matrix feels mysterious and powerful and esoterically 
tied to the Flower of Life. (See Flower of Life.) 


Meditation: My personal form of meditating is to sit outside under the trees or 
in front of my work area or even in my favorite easy chair while being still and 
quiet, allowing my mind to go where it wants to go and to show me images 
along the way. Some of these images make no sense, but some do. Of course, 
there are more traditional ways to meditate, but they are all aimed at accessing 


the spiritual plane. 


Metaphysical: “Meta” means “beyond” (from the Greek meta). It is the study or 
subject of all the elements that lie beyond or “after” our physical bodies and 
senses. 


Minor Arcana: While the Major Arcana provides the twenty-two major life 
events, the fifty-six remaining Minor Arcana cards speak to specifics in the 
different areas of life as indicated by the four suits of Pentacles, Swords, 
Wands, and Cups. In other words, they “flesh out” the stories and address, 
among other things, the areas of money, love, health, and success. 


Number Energies: These symbols dictate types of energies, whether they be 
fast or slow or powerful or passive. When combined with the characters of 
letters, these number flows will also form a picture when linked together and 
play an integral role in the practice of Chaldean numerology. 


Numerology: The practical application of number energies to the path or pattern 
of one’s life. It is not a traditional divination system, but it is revelatory in a 
deeply personal way and can indicate times when certain events are likely to 
occur. Chaldean is but one form of numerology; some others are Pythagorean 
and Kabalarian. 


Occult: Used here only in the positive sense. This term comes from the Latin 
occultare (to “hide” or to “conceal”) and refers to the mystical and unknown 
and the revelation and understanding thereof. 


Omen: A bird flies into the room and we think someone is going to die. That’s 
an omen. Or, at least, that is one that I know of. Anything can be viewed as an 
omen, but I tend to listen to my intuition rather than start looking for omens 
because you can find them everywhere if you are actively looking. Having 
said that, there are times when repeated odd events will combine with 
messages from your intuition and present what can be seen as an omen, the 
meaning of which will be personal to the observer. 


Oracle: Any device or tool that is used to peek into the placement of future 
energies. 


Paranormal: This is something that travels past the boundaries of what we 


consider “normal” (para is linked to the Latin and carries a similar meaning to 
the Greek meta, which is to “go against, past, beyond, or above”) and includes 
hauntings, possessions, telepathy, and UFO sightings. Paranormal events or 
subjects are those that challenge or defy scientific explanation. 


Pendulum: Usually a crystal suspended on a chain, these are also in the oracle 
family and are used to indicate yes or no answers. (See Dowsing.) 


Pentagram: This is another symbol that goes back in time and always makes me 
think of the stars in the sky, maybe because it is the five-pointed star and holds 
the power of God and man within its frame. It is a positive symbol, unless 
worn or drawn upside down. Then it is sometimes viewed as connected to 
Satan worship or the misuse of energies. 


Personal Power: This is the willingness to set goals and pursue them without 
allowing fear to intervene. Personal power is self-confidence that is gained 
through faith in your own abilities as gifted by a higher power. It is not overly 
connected to the ego. 


Pineal Gland: This is a pea-sized gland that sits in the middle of your brain and 
regulates the secretion of melatonin, which helps us sleep. It is connected to 
the mystic “third eye,” which points to psychic abilities. When “opened” 
(through meditation, yoga, and reiki, to name a few methods), it is purported 
to offer a portal that sees beyond the physical and connects to the universal 
truths. (See Intuition.) 


Prophets (Soothsayers): These have been around since the dawn of recorded 
history. Genuine practitioners are spiritual and intuitive and can indeed speak 
the “soothe.” This word is linked to Old English and basically means to tell 
the truth. Only over time did this change to cast doubt upon the words spoken. 
Otherwise known as seers, fortunetellers, and psychics, these are people who 
are just more naturally open to messages and visions than others. To 
supplement their visions, some also use tools (such as the Tarot) to decipher 
the likelihood of specific events occurring in the future. 


Psyche: This is the deep and inner core of our emotions. This is where we are 
extremely vulnerable. For example, if we suffer an emotional wound that is 
penetrating and lasting, it can become ingrained into our very essence or soul, 


or psyche. 


Psychic: Psychics are able to see, but not always in the same direction and 
usually without any control over images. Some see the past; some see the 
future. Being psychic is one big step up from being intuitive; it can be an 
uncomfortable way to live, but it can also prove very helpful. For example, 
despite their sometimes fallible reputations, psychics are often consulted by 
police in cases involving missing persons. (See Prophets.) 


Pyramids of Egypt: Seemingly without the means to do so at the time, the 
people of ancient Egypt managed to build the Great Pyramids at Giza so that 
they aligned almost exactly with the astral Belts of Orion. Questions swirl 
around these mystical structures: how they were built; where the mathematical 
knowledge required to do so came from; how they knew the astrological 
aspects and how to apply them to construction; and perhaps one of the most 
perplexing—why? Why would these people have cared about the astrological 
alignments of their structures? 


Roadblocks: Roadblocks are repeated and determined attempts by Universe to 
stop you from doing something or from going somewhere, and there is always 
a reason. We just don’t always know what it is, nor do we need to. 


Runes: Runes are a set of symbols (originating with an old Germanic language) 
that formed a little-known alphabet, which was used when a document needed 
protection from prying eyes. But the primary use of runes even then was 
divinational; each symbol was marked or carved onto a small piece of rock, 
wood, or leather and used for divining the future. When thrown, only the runes 
falling face-up were considered. (See Divination.) 


Soul Mate: We all dream of finding our soul mate, right? You may rethink that 
after reading this; not all soul mates are positive. Some are quite destructive 
and tie back to unfinished business; karmic debts and payback can come in 
forms other than romantic. So be careful that the soul mate you think you have 
found really is the soul mate you think you have found. Trust your intuition! 


Stonehenge: Stonehenge, at least from a strictly structural point of view, always 
struck me as a giant circle within another made of huge rock dominoes with a 
smaller horseshoe in the center. Some of these dominoes have fallen down, but 


the rest remain standing, as they have done for thousands of years. There is 
undoubtedly mystery surrounding these monuments, why they were built, 
what was done there, and so on, but the largest mystery (just like Easter Island 
and the pyramids) involves how the people who built them knew enough about 
astrology to align its structure with lunar and solar solstices. 


Sub Numbers: The most important subs are the ones just before your final 
number for any name. There can be a number of double digits found when 
reducing a Whole Name, and while these may hold messages for you, it is the 
last or main subs that will tell you the most about yourself. 


Symbology: This means being aware of symbols around you that seem to play 
into what you were just thinking or answer questions you were just asking ... 
similar to a stop sign appearing when you’ve just wondered about having that 
second hamburger. 


Synchronicity: Often mistakenly called coincidence, synchronicity occurs when 
two elements come together in a surprising or unexpected way. A typical 
example is when you are thinking about someone you have not spoken to in a 
long time and an hour later, the phone rings and guess who’s on the line? 
Synchronicity is energies that meet and ride the same path for a short time, 
often resulting in a meeting of minds or people or ideas. 


Tarot: The tarot is a very old and very well-used system of divining and 
advising that can offer spiritual insight and growth as well as a peek at 
potential upcoming events. (See Divination, Major Arcana, and Minor 
Arcana.) 


Total Name: The Total Name Number is your entire name (including your 
middle name) and shows your “proper” and governmental essence as well as 
the potential gifted to you by Universe upon your “delivery” here. 

Tree of Life: Although the natural connection is to the Tree in the Garden of 
Eden and forbidden fruit, this Tree is more concerned with human, plant, and 
animal existence. It performs many functions that are intrinsic to the cycle of 
life and is honored as such. 


Universe/Source/Spirit/Divine: All refer to God; the Almighty; the One Who 


Creates. I think of God as a consciousness—one that contains all knowledge 
and wisdom of the past, the present, and the future. 


Whole Name: Each of your individual names adds up to a Whole Name—like 
the name John totals to number 9. Each Whole Name Number is descriptive of 
the category in which it falls: if “John” is a first name, it will reflect Social 
aspects. 


Wicca: Wicca is based on worship of the Goddess (and her consort) and 
involves ritualized ceremony, strict codes of conduct, and beliefs and ethics, 
and is positive in tone. It is not the same thing as witchcraft, which can be 
practiced by anyone in any way and can be positive or negative in intention. 
(See Witch.) 


Witch: The origin of the term witch is not exact but is suspected to come from 
the Anglo-Saxon word wicca, which is believed to have meant “wise.” So 
from there, it is not hard to imagine an old wise woman of an ancient village 
who grew herbs, knew how to mix healing balms, and occasionally threw 
twigs or stones on the ground to study their patterns as the true core origin of 
the now-mixed meaning of the word witch. To my mind, this term means 
someone who works with and honors the power of nature and the energy/spirit 
of all things. 


Yin/Yang: This ancient term sources back to China and is their version of how 
things work in the Universe. One half of the symbol is white and the other 
black, which is meant to reflect the fact that nothing ever is truly black or 
white. Their swirling action represents the continuous flow and changes of 
nature and life itself. 


[contents] 


recommended reading 


Allen, James. As a Man Thinketh. Britain: 1902. 
http://jamesallen.wwwhubs.com/ 


Bodine, Echo. Echoes of the Soul. Novato, CA: New World Library, 1999. 
. A Still, Small Voice. Novato, CA: New World Library, 2001. 
Braden, Gregg. The Divine Matrix. Carlsbad, CA: Hay House, 2008. 

. Spontaneous Healing of Belief. Carlsbad, CA: Hay House, 2008. 


Buckland, Raymond. Practical Candle Burning Rituals. St. Paul, MN: 
Llewellyn, 1970. 


Cunningham, Scott. Earth Power. St. Paul, MN: Llewellyn (reprint), 2002. 


. Divination for Beginners. St. Paul, MN: Llewellyn (reprint), 2003. 
Goodman, Linda. Love Signs. New York: St. Martin’s Press, 1978. 
Hay, Louise. You Can Heal Your Life. Carlsbad, CA: Hay House, 1984. 


Hicks, Esther, and Jerry Hicks. The Law of Attraction. Carlsbad, CA: Hay 
House, 2006. 


——. Ask and It Is Given. Carlsbad, CA: Hay House, 2006. 


Peck, Scott. The Road Less Traveled. New York City, NY: Simon and Schuster, 
1978. 


Thompson, Leeya Brooke. Chaldean Numerology: An Ancient Map for Modern 
Times. CA: Tenacity Press, 1999. 


[contents] 


bibliography 


Blavatsky, H.P. (Collated Articles). “The Chaldean Legend,” Theosophy 
Magazine, Vol. 52 No. 6 (1964): 175-182, http://www.blavatsky.net. 

Dafoe, Stephan. “Philip 1V—1268—-1314,” accessed June 21, 2011, 
http://blog.templarhistory.com/2010/03/philip iv-1268-1314/. 

Mock, Janet, ed., and Julia Wang, ed. “Celebrity Central—Top 25 Celebs— 
Drew Barrymore,” People Magazine, accessed June 21, 2010, 
http://www.people.com/people/drew_barrymore/biography/0,20007949,00.htm 

Russell, Rusty. “Ancient Babylonia—History of Babylonia,” accessed June 21, 
2011, http://www.bible-history.com. 

Saba, Charles. “Chaldean Numerology,” Charles Saba Natal Charts & Timing of 
Events, accessed June 21, 2011, http://www.chsaba.com. 

The Biography Channel. “Apolo Anton Ohno Biography,” accessed June 21, 
2011, http://www. biography.com/articles/ApoloAnton-Ohno-226021. 


“Drew Barrymore’ Biography,” accessed June 21, 2011, 
http://www.thebiographychannel.co.uk/biographies/drewbarrymore.html. 


“Leonardo da Vinci Biography,” accessed June 21, 2011, 
http://www. biography.com/articles/Leonardo-da-Vinci-40396. 


“Leonardo DiCaprio Biography,” accessed June 21, 2011, 
http://www. biography.com/articles/LeonardoDiCaprio-9273992. 


“Phil Spector Biography,” accessed June 21, 2011, 
http://www. biography.com/articles/Phil-Spector9489973?part=1. 


The Internet Movie Database. “Drew Barrymore,” accessed June 21, 2011, 
http://www.imdb.com/name/nm0000106/. 


The website of Apolo Anton Ohno; http://www.apoloantonohno.com. 
The website of Drew Barrymore; http://www.drewbarrymore.com/index.html. 


World Food Programme. “Drew Barrymore announces a US$1 million donation 


on ‘The Oprah Winfrey Show,” published March 3, 2008. 


http://www.wfp.org/node/212. 
Of the dead sciences of the past, there is a fair minority of earnest students 


who are entitled to learn the few truths that may now be given to them. 


—H. P. Blavatsky 


[contents] 


