
MATTHEW OLIVER GOODWIN 

NUMEROLOGY 

THE COMPLETE GUIDE 






From the library oft 

ROH dixoH 




NUMEROLOGY 
The Complete Guide 

VOLUME TWO 



NUMEROLOGY 
The Complete Guide 

VOLUME TWO 

ADVANCED 

PERSONALITY 

ANALYSIS 

AND 

READING THE PAST, 
PRESENT AND FUTURE 


Matthew Oliver Goodwin 


NEWCASTLE PUBLISHING COMPANY, INC. • NORTH HOLLYWOOD, CALIFORNIA • 1981 



TO ARLENE 



ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 

I would like to acknowledge the many people who helped. 


Thanks— 

to the special friend (who prefers to remain anonymous) 
who first introduced me to numerology, 
to Naomi Weisman, who shared her insights, 
to Dana Holliday, who contributed her unique aware¬ 
nesses, 

to Kelley Jeane Younger, for helping to make this project 
a reality and for consulting on the book, 
to Anne Brenden Monkarsh, for her gracious special help, 
to Pam Cisneros, who typed so much of the mountain of 
manuscript, 

to Judy Yerman, whose contribution when needed was so 
important, 

to Mary Leipziger, who contributed the back-cover pho¬ 
tograph (and the pastries to help my occasionally lagging 
spirit). 


Thanks to those whose encouragement for my special project 
was so meaningful: 

Ida Goodwin, Jean Brill, Miriam Miller, Harvey Yerman, 
Elliot Brill, Susan Brill, Bill Brill, Helen Brill, Antonino 
Bruno, Lenore Goldman, Bernie Weisman, Audrey Sim¬ 
mons, Neil Perlmutter, Boris Marks, _______ _______, 
Gerta Farber. 

And, of course, thanks to Josh Goodwin for his support, to 
Lisa Goodwin for her encouragement from around the world, 
to Adam Chess for his concern—and especially to Arlene 
Goodwin who was always there to listen, discuss and lend 
loving sustenance. 


Los Angeles, 1981 




CONTENTS 


ix 


CONTENTS 


VOLUME 2 

PART IV: CHARACTER DELINEATION- 
ADVANCED TECHNIQUES 

Introduction to advanced delineation 383 


• CHAPTER 22 r 

ADVANCED SYMBOLISM OF NUMBERS_ 385 

All the types of potential energy available: the 
continuums 385 
A typical continuum 385 
A look at the 1 continuum 386 
A discussion of chart 13: the numbers— 

ADVANCED SYMBOLISM 387 


• CHAPTER 23: 

ADVANCED ANALYSIS OF CHARACTERISTICS 389 

How each characteristic is derived 389 
The probability of each characteristic 391 
How a characteristic is modified 392 
When a characteristic appears several times 
in the elements and modifiers 395 


CONTENTS 


xi 


a subject’s life, is a synthesis of the subject’s 
progressed cycles for that particular time 
period 472 

Definition: Each progressed cycle describes the 
sequence of probable influences, events, 
opportunities and/or desirable approaches for 
growth during a sequence of specified time 
periods 472 

The time spans of the different progressed 
cycles 472 

Our plan of study for progressed cycles 473 
How an individual responds to the influences of 
the progressed cycles 473 
The progressed cycles derive from the birthdate 
and birthname 474 
Progressed chart 474 

When do changes occur in the influences in a 
subject’s life? 479 

Special case: Birthday on January 1 479 

Special case: Birthday in the first half of 
January 480 

Special case: Birthday on December 31 480 

Special case: Birthday in the last half of 
December 481 

Beginning a progressed chart for Hal Allen 481 
Preview of the succeeding chapters in Part V 482 
Full-size progressed chart form 483 


• CHAPTER 28: 

LONG TERM CYCLES, PART 1: 

THE LIFE PATH PERIODS ___ 

Definition: The three Life Path Periods in each 
person’s life describe the probable general 
influences in the three phases of the life as aspects 
of the Life Path direction 485 
The First or Developmental Period 485 
The Second or Productive Period 486 
The Third or Integrative Period 486 
Calculation of the Periods 486 
Examples of the Period calculation 487 
Time span of the Periods 487 
Time span chart of the Periods 488 
Transition between Periods 488 
Example: Hal Allen’s Period calculation 488 
Adding the Period data to Hal Allen’s progressed 
chart 489 


485 




CONTENTS 


Definition: The Universal Year is a medium term 
cycle describing the general yearly trend of 
world influences 519 
Calculation of the Universal Year 520 
Time span and transitions of the Universal 
Year 520 

A discussion of the Universal Year on chart 16: 

THE PERSONAL YEAR/THE UNIVERSAL YEAR 520 

Commentary on the Universal Year 521 
Definition: The Personal Year describes the yearly 
approach to events likely to produce growth and 
developm ent 521 

Calculation of the Personal Year 521 
Time span and transitions of the Personal 
Year 522 

A discussion of the Personal Year on chart 16: 

THE PERSONAL YEAR/THE UNIVERSAL YEAR 523 

Commentary on the Personal Year 523 
Definition: The Epicycle is the vital connection 
between the long term and medium term 
cycles 524 

Epicycles and Periods 524 
Epicycles and Pinnacles 524 
Epicycles with Life Path 1, 2, 11/2 and 3 524 
Epicycles with Life Path 4 and 22/4 525 

Epicycles with Life Path 5 through 9 525 
Commentary on the Epicycle 525 
What is included in the delineation of a Personal 
Year 528 

Adding the Personal Year and Universal Year to 
Hal Allen’s progressed chart 529 
Hal Allen’s Personal Year delineations 531 

• CHAPTER 32: 

MEDIUM TERM CYCLES, PART 2: 

THE TRANSITS, THE ESSENCE _ 

Definition: The Transits and the Essence are 
medium term cycles describing events or the 
probable trend of events 537 
Calculation of the Transits 537 
Calculation of the Essence 542 
Time span of the Transits and Essence 542 
Transitions of the Transits and Essence 543 
A discussion of chart 17: the essence 544 
Commentary on the Essence 544 
A discussion of chart 18: the transits 545 


537 




CONTENTS 


xv 


A discussion of the Personal Month on chart 19: 

THE PERSONAL MONTH/THE PERSONAL DAY 582 

Commentary 582 
The Universal Month 583 
The monthly epicycle 584 
A discussion of chart 20: the epicycle 586 
What is included in the delineation of the 
Personal Month 587 
Example: Hal Allen’s Personal Month 
calculation 588 

Hal Allen’s Personal Month delineation 589 

• CHAPTER 35 

SHORT TERM CYCLES, PART 2: 

THE PERSONAL DAY___ 595 

Definition: The Personal Day describes the 
approach to events for a given day likely to 
produce growth and development 595 
Calculation of the Personal Day 595 
Time span and transitions of the Personal Day 596 
A discussion of the Personal Day on chart 19: 

the personal month/the personal day 596 
Commentary 597 
The Universal Day 597 
The daily epicycle 598 

What is included in the delineation of the Personal 
Day 598 

Example: Hal Allen’s Personal Day 
calculation 599 

Hal Allen’s Personal Day delineation 599 

• CHAPTER 36: 

ADVANCED PROGRESSED DELINEATION: 

AN EXAMPLE _ : ___I_ 605 

A client with some questions 605 
The procedure to answer the client’s 
questions 606 

Hope Edythe Lynch, a fictitious client: calculation 
sheet, organization sheet and progressed 
chart 606 

Hope Edythe Lynch: The Personal Month 
calculation 607 

A complete step-by-step progressed delineation 
of our fictitious client, Hope Edythe Lynch 607 
Discussion of Hope. Edythe Lynch’s questions 619 



CONTENTS 


xvii 


Family relations 662 

Comparison delineation of a family 663 

• CHAPTER 40: 

ADDRESSES, PHONE NUMBERS, ETC-665 

City, state, country 665 

Zip code, area code 666 

Home address 666 

Calculation of the home address 666 

Commentary on the home address 667 

Example of a delineation of the home address 668 

Office, store or factory address 669 

Other numbers in the life 669 

PART VII: CONCLUSION 

• CHAPTER 41: 

ONBEINGANUMEROLOGIST _ 673 

THE REFERENCE CHARTS 


CHART 13: 

THE NUMBERS— 

ADVANCED SYMBOLISM 

682 


See Chapter 22 


CHART 14: 

THE T .TEE PATH PERIODS 

696 

See Chapter 28 


CHART 15: ' 

THF. PTNNACT.FS 

710 

See Chapter 29 


CHART 16: 

THE PERSONAL YEAR/ 

THF UNIVERSAL YEAR 

724 


See Chapter 31 


CHART 17: 

THF ESSENCE 

738 

See Chapter 32 


CHART 18: 

THE TRANSITS 

752 

See Chapter 32 


CHART 19: 

THE PERSONAL MONTH/ 

THE PERSON AT, DAY 

766 


See Chapters 34 and 35 


CHART 20: 

THE EPICYCLE 

780 


See Chapters 31 and 34 

BIBLIOGRAPHY __ 793 


PART IV: 

CHARACTER DELINEATION 
ADVANCED TECHNIQUES 



ADVANCED DELINEATION 


383 


INTRODUCTION 
TO ADVANCED DELINEATION 


In Parts II and III in Volume 1, we defined, weighted and 
analyzed the elements and modifiers in order to clarify the es¬ 
sential nature of the pieces making up a delineation. 

Here in Part IV, our point of view shifts. We are going to 
enlarge the context so that our readings become more subtle 
and complex interweavings of energies than can possibly be 
devised by following any steps by rote. We want to move from 
the memorization of information and procedure, so important 
as a beginning step, to a broader understanding of the energies 
which vitalize or inhibit the individual. 

In succeeding chapters, we will 

expand our awareness of the symbolism of numbers; 

expand our ability to interpret individual character¬ 
istics;^ '■» 

investigate the energies derived from names other than 
the birth name; 

develop a framework for an advanced reading; 

and finally, proceed, step by step, through a complete 
delineation. 



CHAPTER 22 : SYMBOLISM OF NUMBERS 


385 


CHAPTER 22 

ADVANCED SYMBOLISM 
OF NUMBERS 


Back in Chapter 2, we presented keywords for each of the 
numbers and indicated that the keywords actually represented 
only the positive potential of a particular number. Each 
number, we said, could be thought of as a continuum of 
energies with the keywords as a desirable focus. In the chapters 
that followed, we explored many of the positive and negative 
energies along the continuums. This is a good time to con¬ 
solidate and expand our understanding of these continuums. 

The eleven numbers—1 through 9, 11 and 22—describe all 
the types of potential energy available. Within the eleven con¬ 
tinuums, then, are all the possible awarenesses, experiences and 
characteristics. 

In Chapter 2, for the sake of simplicity, we described a con¬ 
tinuum with positive potential at one end and negative poten¬ 
tial at the other. Visualize the continuum instead having 
positive energy at the center and negative energy at the two 
ends. Here’s a diagram of a typical continuum: 

EXTREME THE CENTER: EXTREME 

OVERBALANCE BALANCED ENERGY UNDERBALANCE 

I-!-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1 

"- v M ■ ^ > - v —^ > v ^ 

NEGATIVE POSITIVE NEGATIVE 

ENERGY ENERGY ENERGY 


A typical 
continuum 


The center of each continuum represents the balanced 
energy of the number, the positive potential. 



CHAPTER 22: SYMBOLISM OF NUMBERS 


38T 



The three keywords describing the 1 energy have been ex¬ 
panded to almost forty characteristics. We could, of course, 
draw similar diagrams for all the numbers. 


If you turn to chart 13: the numbers—advanced symbolism 
on page 682, you’ll find a list of words and phrases for each 
number describing the balanced, overbalanced and under¬ 
balanced potentials. The three keywords for the 1 energy, for 
example, have been enlarged to a list of over 120 potentials. 

The lists, incomplete at best, are purposely arranged alpha¬ 
betically rather than by continuum. The emphasis on Chart 13 
is not on the continuums which are, of course, arbitrary con¬ 
structs, but rather on the broad sweep of the energies with 
which we’re dealing. Keep the continuums in mind, though, as 
you explore the infinity of subtle nuances in people’s behavior. 

Start thinking in terms of the subtleties of the continuums 
rather than just the keywords. Observe the next person, for ex¬ 
ample, with strong 5 energy. Is she unconventional, contrary, 
dissident, deviant, mannerist or bizarre? Is she spontaneous, 
emancipated, unchecked or licentious? Is she curious, snoopy, 
meddling or officious? (And what about the subtleties when 
there’s two or three divergent energies present?) 

As you proceed with your own advanced delineations, you 11 
increase your ability to distinguish and describe the multitu¬ 
dinous shades of differences. Awareness of these nuances will 
add considerable depth to your readings. 


Chart 13: 
The 

Numbers— 

Advanced 

Symbolism 



CHAPTER 23 : ANALYSIS OF CHARACTERISTICS 


389 


CHAPTER 23 

ADVANCED ANALYSIS 
OF CHARACTERISTICS 


A character delineation is a portrayal of the total of an in¬ 
dividual’s energies. The energies are usually depicted as groups 
of traits so that the delineation is, in fact, a description of a 
series of characteristics which define the subject. The success of 
our advanced delineations will depend on our conversance with 
the traits and their modifications. 

We should be able to answer these questions about each 
characteristic: 

How is each characteristic derived? 

What is the probability of the presence of each charac¬ 
teristic in the subject? 

How is a characteristic modified by the other energies 
present? 

In this chapter, we’ll discuss each of these questions. Just as 
the last chapter was intended to expand your awareness of the 
numbers from the simple keywords to the broad continuums, 
this chapter proposes to broaden your understanding and use of 
the traits in a reading. 


HOW IS EACH CHARACTERISTIC DERIVED? 

The characteristics can only be derived from 

the continuums of the core elements 
the continuums'of the modifiers 


How each 
characteristic 
is derived 





CHAPTER 23: ANALYSIS OF CHARACTERISTICS 


391 


Six of the eleven continuums describe this trait of “giving 
friendship, showing affection, expressing love.” In each, the 
trait can be seen as part of the general class. And, in each, 
the expression of the characteristic is markedly different. In 
the delineations in Parts II and III, Volume 1, we carefully 
separated the energies and their traits by modifier number. In 
our advanced delineations, we’re opening the way to far more 
subtlety by our understanding of the related characteristics. 
Think about self-centeredness, business ability, emotional ex¬ 
pression, freedom, rigidity, to name but a few traits repeated in 
several continuums, and become familiar with their different 
manifestations. 

When a subject has several strong continuums (that is, 
elements and strong modifiers) with related traits, the descrip¬ 
tion of the characteristics will be more meaningful when the 
description expresses the several continuums combined. Culti¬ 
vate an awareness of the related traits. For instance, learn to 
express “giving friendship, showing affection, expressing love” 
as expressed by combined 6-9 energy; be able to contrast that 
potential with the 2-6 or 2-9 potential; or visualize the energy 
expressed by the heaviness of the 9'11 or the lightness of 3-5 
potential. 


WHAT IS THE PROBABILITY OF THE PRESENCE OF 
EACH CHARACTERISTIC IN THE SUBJECT? 

With experience, you’ll distinguish the specific traits which 
are almost always expressed when certain continuums are pres¬ 
ent. With a 5 continuum, for instance, we would usually find 
an enthusiastic subject; 6 almost always produces a giving in¬ 
dividual; 7 describes a person whom we’d expect to be at least a 
little different. 

Often, though, the presence of a specific characteristic is not 
that clear. If Barry has strong 2 energy, is he sensitive or over¬ 
sensitive, is he friendly or shy (or possibly both), is he coopera¬ 
tive or apathetic? In a numerology reading, we determine the 
probability of a characteristic simply by how many elements 
and strong modifiers express that particular quality. (A strong 
modifier would be a Karmic Debt, a Karmic Lesson, an Inten¬ 
sity Point, a strongly divergent Prime Intensifier, repeated sub¬ 
elements, or a Challenge.) 

If Emily had only one element or strong modifier attesting to 
her stubbornness, the best we could say is that Emily is “apt to” 
be stubborn. If Emily had a strong 4, I’d expect, from my ex¬ 
perience, that I’d be right about her stubbornness about sev¬ 
enty-five percent of the time. In any event, although the odds 


The 

probability 
of each 
characteristic 




CHAPTER 23: ANALYSIS OF CHARACTERISTICS 


393 


fiers—affect each specific trait in a harmonious or discordant 
manner. Let’s look at some examples: 

Here’s Arthur with a 4 Life Path 
8 Expression 
1 Soul Urge 
22/4 Birthday 

With a 4 Life Path, Arthur would tend to be realistic and 
practical. We know that the 8 Expression energy is also realistic 
and practical, often with an eye for commercial values. The 
1 Soul Urge, too, is generally practical, although the self- 
centered direction of the 1 may tend to distort Arthur’s realistic 
approach. The 22 Birthday is eminently practical, with a sense 
of worldwide vision. The 4 lower level of the Birthday, along 
with the 4 Life Path, may tend to be so realistic and practical as 
to disbalance the view by omitting the possibility of any fan¬ 
ciful factors. 

The 4 and 8 energies make up seventy percent of Arthur’s 
core energy. The 1 and 22/4 energies would, therefore, have 
relatively minor impact. 

If we think of “realistic and practical” as a characteristic 
derived from Arthur’s 4 Life Path, that characteristic, modified 
by the other core energies, might read like this: 

Arthur tends to benefit by his ability to be quite 
realistic and practical, often with an eye to com¬ 
mercial r values. Occasionally, his practicality 
doesn't allow for the input of any fanciful views of 
value or, at times, his own needs may distort his 
practical approach. 


Jacqueline has a 4 Life Path, too, along with 
11/2 Expression 
7 Soul Urge 
5 Birthday 

For Arthur, the other core elements had energy similar to the 
practicality of his 4 Life Path. For Jacqueline, the other 
elements have little, if anything, to do with realism or prac¬ 
ticality. The 11 Expression, as a matter of fact, is dreamy and 
idealistic, often surprisingly impractical, with difficulty sep¬ 
arating fantasy and reality. The 2 level of the Expression is 
usually more aware of reality than the 11, but with little special 
concern with practicality. The 7 Soul Urge tends to live in 



CHAPTER 23: ANALYSIS OF CHARACTERISTICS 


395 


practical—it neither adds to nor subtracts from this trait. The 9 
Birthday isn’t much involved, either. 

With sixty percent of the energy (4 Life Path and 1 Soul 
Urge) firmly directed to practicality and the other forty percent 
(2 Expression and 9 Birthday) neutral, the description might 
read like this: 

Ina tends to benefit by her ability to be quite 
realistic and practical, only occasionally distorting 
her approach because of her strong personal 
needs. 

Ina’s description is not too different than Arthur’s. For Ar¬ 
thur, though, his practicality, being involved with a hundred 
percent of his core energy, would tend to affect many of his 
other characteristics, while Ina’s practicality, with a much 
smaller percent of her core energy, would have considerably 
less effect on her other traits. 


When a characteristic appears several times, we usually get 
a more complete description than if it appears only once. In the 
examples so far, we’ve dealt only with the core elements. 
Though they have both positive and negative potential, the 
elements rarely indicate extreme positive energy, and only 
when there are repeated number elements or a Karmic Debt do 
they describe extreme negative energy. In the following exam¬ 
ple, with both elements and strong modifiers, we see how the 
description reflects the extremes added by the modifiers. 

We’ll look at Maggie and her emotions. 


When a 
characteristic 
appears 
several times 
in the 

elements and 
modifiers 


Maggie has a 6 Life Path 
5 Expression 
7 Soul Urge 
20/2 Birthday 
three 8’s Intensity Point 
six 9’s Intensity Point 


With Maggie’s 6 Life Path, we know, from chart 2: the life 
path, that she is likely to be emotional. From my own ex¬ 
perience, I know that 6 energy almost always represents ex¬ 
tremely deep feelings, often clearly expressed. 

Maggie’s 5 Expression gives little indication of her emotional 
bent. 

Her 7 Soul Urge, from chart 4: the soul urge, indicates that 
her emotions may be very strong, although most of them may 





CHAPTER 24: ENERGY MODIFICATION 


397 


CHAPTER 24 

ADVANCED ENERGY 
MODIFICATION: USING 
NAMES OTHER THAN 
THE RIRTHNAME 


If a woman is born Jane Mary Doe, that name, along with 
her birthdate, will, of course, describe her basic potential. If 
she usually uses the name Jane Doe, or signs her checks Jane M. 
Doe, or is called Jill Doe by her close friends, each of these 
names will indicate an energy somewhat different than the 
basic energy. If she marries and becomes Jane Smith or Jane M. 
Smith or Jill Smith, each of these married names will also 
describe a somewhat different potential. 

We know that the basic potential is subject to some modifica¬ 
tion, dependent on a person’s free will and environment. In ad¬ 
dition, the use of names other than the birthname describe 
changes in the basic energy available. Any name is simply a 
symbolic representation of the traits a person presents when us¬ 
ing that name. 

Yes, you can change the energy available to you by changing 
your name. But some energies different than your basic ener¬ 
gies are easier to use than others. And there are limits to just 
how much of that basic energy can be changed. 

About half of the basic potential is derived from the Life 
Path and Birthday. Since there is no way to change the date of 
birth from which these elements are derived, approximately fif¬ 
ty percent of the basic energy can’t be changed at all. Perhaps 
half of the remaining fifty percent of the energy can be modi¬ 
fied with a strong name change. In other words, only a max¬ 
imum of a quarter of the basic energy is changeable at all. 



CHAPTER 24: ENERGY MODIFICATION 


399 


STEP 3 

COMPARE THE INTENSITY TABLES. 

A. Are there Karmic Lessons, Modified Karmic Lessons or sig¬ 
nificantly divergent negative Intensity Points in the birth- 
name which are “made up” in the new name, that is, re¬ 
placed by average or strongly divergent positive Intensity 
Points? 

B. Are there any strongly divergent positive Intensity Points in 
the new name replacing average Intensity Points in the 
birthname? 

STEP 4 

COMPARE THE SUB-ELEMENTS. 

A. Is there a sub-element with the same number as a core ele¬ 
ment in either name which isn’t present in the other name? 

B. Are there repeated sub-elements in either name which 
aren’t present in the other name? 

STEP 5 

COMPARE THE MATURITY NUMBER TO BOTH NAMES. 

If the subject is younger than thirty-five, omit this step. 

Is there more or less energy related to the Maturity Number 
sub-lesson available with the new name? The Maturity 
Number, derived from the birthname and birthdate, doesn’t 
change when a n'6vtf name is used. 

STEP 6 

COMPARE THE TEMPERAMENTS. 

Are there strong or average components in either name which 
are weak components in the other name? 

STEP 7 

COMPARE THE FIRST LETTERS AND FIRST VOWELS. 

Are there significant differences in the approach between the 
birthname and the new name? 

STEP 8 

COMPARE THE GROWTH NUMBER TO BOTH NAMES. 

Is there more or less energy available to help expand the devel¬ 
opment with the new name? The Growth Number, derived 
from the birthname, doesn’t change when a new name is used. 




CHAPTER 24: ENERGY MODIFICATION 


401 


September 21, 1940 

9 ^ 



9-3 = 6 
5-3 = 2 

6 - 2 = 4 CHALLENGE 


7 

+ (12) 3 

+ 

6 

6 1 

5 7 


1 5 

NORMAN 

EDDY 


PARKER 

5 9 4 5 

44 


7 9 2 9 

(23) 5 

+ 8 

+ 

(27) 9 = 

569415 

5447 


719259 

(30) 3 

+ (20) 2 

+ 

(33) 6 = 


16/7 


22 SECRET SELF 



two l’s 
one 2 
no 3 
three 4’s 
four 5’s 
one 6 
two 7’s 
no 8 
three 9’s 


PHYSICAL 

MEDDE 

5-Strong 

MENTAL 

NANPA 

5-Strong 

EMOTIONAL 

ORRR 

4-Strong 

INTUITIVE 

YK 

2-Average 


MATURITY NUMBER = 8 + 11 = 19 = 1 


Figure 24-1 
Calculation Sheet: 
Norman Eddy Parker 


his executive or administrative potential (8 Life 
Path). His verbal abilities, his creativity and his 
sociability ( 21/3 Birthday) will probably be of Use in 
both his business and idealistic ventures, but his 
introspective nature, his “differentness/' his self- 
centered tendency (7 Soul Urge, 16/7 Karmic Debt) 
and his nervous tension ( 11/2 Expression) are likely 
to prove handicaps. 



CHAPTER 24: ENERGY MODIFICATION 


403 


When using the new name, there’s a diminished emphasis on 
the 11/2 Expression of the hirthname. When a portion of the 
core is emphasized, the other portion is diminished. 

With this portion of his basic energy emphasized, I 
would expect a diminished emphasis on the 
divergent idealistic and spiritual energy. 

The new 1 Expression and 1 Expression/1 sub-element (along 
with the 8 Life Path) emphasize some negative traits. 

He's likely to appear somewhat more self-centered 
and stubborn. 

Norman Eddy Parker has an average effectiveness of 9, while 
Norman Claude Parker has an average effectiveness of 17. The 
new name is extremely ineffective. See the calculation of the ef¬ 
fectiveness below. 

Although the new name produces a more har¬ 
monious blend of energies, it also produces a far 
more ineffective blend. Although Norman will feel 
more focused, he'll probably be frustrated with his 
inability to easily accomplish what he would like. 


We can compare the effectiveness of the birthname and the 
new name by-adding^ the differences between the Life Path, 
Expression and Soul Urge of both names and comparing the 
totals. The subtractions follow the rules outlined in Chapter 7 
on page 51. 

If two elements have the same number, this is a very ineffec¬ 
tive combination. When this occurs, call the effectiveness of 
that combination equal to 10. 

When a master number is present, as in this case, two totals 
are obtained, one using the master number and the second us¬ 
ing the reduced number. The two totals are then averaged. 


Calculating 

the 

effectiveness 
of the 
birthname 
and the 
new name 


Norman Eddy Parker: 

11 Expression - 8 Life Path = 2 

8 Life Path - 7 Soul Urge = 1 

11 Expression - 7 Soul Urge = _3 

6 


8 Life Path - 2 Expression = 6 

8 Life Path - 7 Soul Urge = 1 

7 Soul Urge - 2 Expression -_5 

12 


Average effectiveness - 


6 + 12 


18 __ q 

2 


2 





CHAPTER 24: ENERGY MODIFICATION 


405 


positive Intensity Point in the new Table replacing an average 
birthname Intensity Point, the subject may choose to use that 
new energy and this should be duly noted. 

Norman has no significant positive Intensity Points on his new 
Intensity Table. 

STEP 4 

COMPARE THE SUB-ELEMENTS. 

The 7 Soul Urge!7sub-element of the birthname doesn’t appear 
in the new name. The 7* 7 negative potential would tend to be 
lessened with the new name. 

The 7' 7 potential is similar to the 1617 effect already covered in 
Step 2. 

The 1 Expression/1 sub-element of the new name doesn’t ap¬ 
pear in the birthname, but it’s already described in Step 1. 

STEP 5 

COMPARE THE MATURITY NUMBER TO BOTH NAMES. 

Since Norman is past his mid-thirties, this step is followed. Note 
that Norman’s 1 Maturity Number does not change when he 
changes his name. 

The 1 Expression of the new name increases the energy 
available for the new sub-lesson. 

Norman is likely to make increased progress in the 
direction of independence. 

STEP 6 

COMPARE THE TEMPERAMENTS. 

There aren’t any significant differences here. Only rarely is the 
Temperament an important factor in a name change—usually 
when all or most of the name changes. 

STEP 7 

COMPARE THE FIRST LETTERS AND FIRST VOWELS. 

Since the first name Norman is the same, there’s no change 
here. 

STEP 8 

COMPARE THE GROWTH NUMBER TO BOTH NAMES. 
The Growth Number is 3. The 3 Modified Karmic Lesson of 




CHAPTER 24: ENERGY MODIFICATION 


407 


January 3, 1962 

1 +\^3y+ 9 



3-1 = 2 
9-3 = 6 

6-2 = 4 CHALLENGE 


(12) 3 

+ (10) 1 

5 7 

1 63 

BECKY 

BALFOUR 

2 32 

2 3 6 9 

7 

+ (20) 2 

25 327 

2 1 3 6 6 3 9 


(19) 1 + (30) 3 


- © 


= 9 SECRET SELF 


one 1 
three 2’s 
three 3’s 
no 4 
one 5 
two 6’s 
one 7 
no 8 
one 9 


PHYSICAL 

E 

1-Weak 

..MENTAL 

AL 

2-Average 

EMOTIONAL 

BBOR 

4-Strong 

INTUITIVE 

CKYFU 

5-Strong 


MATURITY NUMBER = 4 + 4 = 8 


EFFECTIVENESS: 

10 

- ® = 10 

- CD = 12 

^ 30 


Figure 24-3 
Calculation Sheet: 
Becky Balfour 



CHAPTER 24: ENERGY MODIFICATION 


409 


STEP 2 

COMPARE THE KARMIC DEBTS. 

No change. 

STEP 3 

COMPARE THE INTENSITY TABLES. 

The new name has four 2’s, an Intensity Point with a signifi¬ 
cant divergence compared to the three 2 s Intensity Point of the 

birthname. 

STEPS 4 THROUGH 8 

No significant changes. 

With her married name, Becky is likely to feel 
somewhat less limited and less rigid (omission of the 
4-4-4). She'll be more capable at systematizing 
and managing, displaying her practical and re¬ 
sponsible side as well as her capability at bringing 
plans to a concrete form [positive 4 energy). In the 
past, she had these skills but seemed to run into 
blockages which prevented her from using these 
capabilities as well as she would have liked. With 
her married name, the impediments seem to be of 
a much lesser nature [omission of the 4-4’4-). 

She'll probably be more adaptable and more en¬ 
thusiastic (5 Expression replaces the 4 Expression) and 
is likely to show more concern for her fellow man 
(9 Soul Urge replaces the 4 Soul Urge). She may find 
more opportunities to put her abilities to work and 
can derive more satisfaction out of life. [Increased 
harmony and effectiveness are found with the new 
name.) Although Becky will still have to work on 
her feelings of subservience and fear of others, she 
is likely to show increased sensitivity and consid¬ 
erateness. [Four 2s replace the three 2’s.) 

I’ve chosen to present Becky’s name change as an example, 
not an uncommon one, of converting restricted energy to 
usable energy, rather than as an example of adding new 
energy. It’s true that, with her married name, Becky receives 
the addition of 5 and 9 energies. But while Becky now has new 
potential to learn to use, she has also, to some extent, freed up 
her basic 4 energy. (The 13/4 Karmic Debt is still there, but the 



CHAPTER 24: ENERGY MODIFlCAT/ON 


411 


June 28, 1942 

6 +viy+ 7 



6- 1 = 5 

7- 1 = 6 

6-5=1 CHALLENGE 


, 1 + 9 + 11 =21 = © 

1 9 6 5 


JACK DWIGHT COLES 

1 32 45 782 3 3 1 

6 + (26) 8 + 7 = 21, = 3 SECRET SELF 


1132 
7 + 

three l’s 
two 2’s 
three 3’s 
one 4 
two 5’s 
one 6 
one 7 
one 8 
one 9 


459782 36351 

(35) 8 + (18) 9 = 24 = 


PHYSICAL 

DWE 

3-Strong 

MENTAL 

JAGHL 

5-Strong 

EMOTIONAL 

ITOS 

4-Strong 

INTUITIVE 

CKC 

3-Strong 


MATURITY NUMBER = 5 + 6 = 11/2 


EFFECTIVENESS: 




1 

2 

3 

6 


Figure 24-5 
Calculation Sheet: 
Jack Dwight Coles 


CHAPTER 24: EN ERGY MOD IFIC ATION 


The 7 Soul Urge of the new name replaces the 3 Soul Urge of 
the birthname. 

The new name contains the very discordant 5 Life Path/5 Ex¬ 
pression aspect. The birthname has the discord of the 5 Life 
Path/6 Expression aspect. 

The new name (effectiveness = 14) is far less effective than the 
birthname (effectiveness = 6). 

STEP 2 

COMPARE THE KARMIC DEBTS. 

In the new name, the 14/5 Karmic Debt of the Expression is 
added to the existing 14/5 Karmic Debt of the Life Path. 

A 16/7 Karmic Debt from the Soul Urge appears in the new 
name only. 

STEPS 3 THROUGH 6 

No significant changes. 

STEP 7 

COMPARE THE FIRST LETTERS AND FIRST VOWELS. 

First Vowel: The E of Jed replaces the A of Jack. 

STEP 8 

COMPARE THE RELATION OF THE GROWTH NUMBER 

TO BOTH NAMES. 

... ..r ,> 

The Growth Number is 7. There's no 7 energy in the birth¬ 
name, but there is the 7 Soul Urge in the new name. 

With his new name, Jed is likely to have somewhat 
more difficulty using freedom constructively. He 
would tend to be a bit more erratic with little 
sense of accomplishment or accountability as well 
as being a bit more overindulgent in physical 
pleasures. He's likely to scatter his energies. (5-5 
aspect. Addition of 14/5 Expression of the new name to 
the 14/5 Life Path.) He's probably a little more self- 
centered [3 and 6 energies of the birthname are re¬ 
placed by 5 and 7 energies so that the entire new core is 
self-centered ) and frustrated by his inability to easi¬ 
ly match his abilities, desires and opportunities. 
(The new name is considerably less effective than the 
birthname .) 

Jed's "different" approach is slightly more em- 



CHAPTER 24: ENERGY MODIFICATION 


415 


feel that Elizabeth’s chart also introduces some new energy. 
We’ll look at that in more detail after we make our com¬ 
parisons. Elizabeth, then, is a subject who, (1) converts a por¬ 
tion of her basic energy to more usable energy and (2) in¬ 
troduces some new energy. 

See the calculation sheets (Figure 24-7 on page 416 and 
Figure 24-8 on page 417): 

Abbie Dumas Jefferson is an introspective, 
difficult-to-know person who tends to operate on a 
different wavelength than most people. She tends 
to depend primarily on herself (7 Life Path). She's 
apt to be extremely self-centered (7 Life Path, 4 Ex¬ 
pression, 8 Soul Urge, five l’s Intensity Point) and 
dominating [five l’s Intensity Point). Although she's 
hard working, serious, patient and orderly (4 Ex¬ 
pression), she also tends to' be rigid, obstinate, 
dogmatic, and often obsessed with system and 
order. She's likely to feel limited and restricted 
[1314 Karmic Debt, 4 Expression/4 sub-element). 


Example 4: 
Portion of 
basic energy 
converted to 
more usable 
energy and 
new energy 
introduced 


She does possess executive abilities (8 Soul Urge) 
and an analytical mind (7 Life Path, 14/5 Birthday) 
along with a strong sense of responsibility [three 6’s 
Intensity Point). She may have to get a better per¬ 
spective on handling money (8 Modified Karmic 
Lesson). 


There are strong changes when she uses her new name: 


STEP 1 

COMPARE THE BIRTH CORE TO THE NEW CORE. 

The 6 Expression of the new name replaces the 4 Expression of 
the birthname. 

The 9 Soul Urge of the new name replaces the 8 Soul Urge of 
the birthname. 

The new name contains the discord of the 6 and 9 energies with 
the 7 energy. The birthname contains the discord of the 4 
and 8 energies with the 7 energy. 

The new name is slightly more effective than the birthname. 

STEP 2 

COMPARE THE KARMIC DEBTS. 

The 13/4 Karmic Debt of the Expression appears only in the 

birthname. 



CHAPTER 24: EN ERGY M O DIF 1C AT 1 O N 


417 


(20) 2 + (16) 7 = © 

5 9 1 5 5 5 6 

ELIZABETH JEFFERSON 


539812528 156659165 


(43) 7 + (44) 8 = 15 = 

three l’s 
two 2’s 
one 3 

-ri A 

11U *X 

f ive 5’ s PHYSICAL 

EEEE 

4-Average 

three 6’s MENTAL 

LAHJN 

5-Strong 

no l, EMOTIONAL 

IZBTRSO 

7-Strong 

two o s 

Hvn 9’.c INTUITIVE 

FF 

2-Average 


EFFECTIVENESS: 



6 


■ * Figure 24-8 

Calculation Sheet: 

Elizabeth Jefferson 

STEP 3 

COMPARE THE INTENSITY TABLES. 

The three 1 s Intensity Point of the new name replaces the sig¬ 
nificantly divergent five 1 $ Intensity Point of the hirthname. 
The two 8’s Intensity Point of the new name replaces the 8 
Modified Karmic Lesson of the birthname. 

STEP 4 

COMPARE THE SUB-ELEMENTS. 

The 4 Expression/4 sub-element appears only in the birthname. 
STEP 5 

COMPARE THE MATURITY NUMBER TO BOTH NAMES. 
Under thirty-five years old. The comparison is unnecessary. 



CHAPTER 24: ENERGY MODIFICATION 


419 


centeredness, confirms the basic energy direction. The 9 Soul 
Urge, while a giving energy, doesn’t, under these circum¬ 
stances, seem strong enough to be significant. There’s nothing 
wrong, though, in mentioning the addition of the 9 potential. 
As a matter of fact, it is mentioned in Becky’s new reading, but 
in a manner commensurate with its importance. 


The names that people use in their daily lives must clearly be 
taken into account. From the examples in this chapter, though, 
I hope it’s apparent how important is the power of the birth- 
name energy. I’ve done readings for some people who’ve never 
used their birthnames. Several of these people had to look up 
their names on their birth certificates because they weren’t 
even sure of them. But all of them, even though they’d never 
used the names, were, without question, described by the 
birthname energies. You are the product of the interplay of 
your birth energies, your free will and your environ¬ 
ment—along with the energy overlay of the different names 
you use. 






CHAPTER 25: DELINEATION PROCEDURE 


421 


CHAPTER 25 


ADVANCED CHARACTER 
DELINEATION: 

THE PROCEDURE 


Advanced delineations follow the same general principles 
discussed in Parts II and III of Volume 1. The principles are 
followed just as rigorously as before, but the delineation format 
is looser and the reading is assembled with an eye to the in¬ 
dividual numerologist’s creative input. The increased depth of 
the advanced reading derives from the numerologist’s ex¬ 
perience and the^ expanding ability to describe each subject’s 
characteristics in the manner most meaningful to that subject. 


Our basic information for the advanced delineation is, of 
course, derived from the core and modifiers. As you gain ex¬ 
perience, you may choose to add additional modifiers or you 
may choose to pay little attention to some of the minor 
modifiers. Check with care that the added modifiers “make 
sense” and add significant information. Check just as carefully 
that the omitted modifiers don’t distort the picture by their ab¬ 
sence. In any event, use the core elements and the same group 
of modifiers in a consistent manner in all your delineations. 

Don’t adjust the reading by leaving out difficult, ambiguous 
or conflicting information. Don’t emphasize information 
because it’s special in your life. Keep the delineation as “pure” 
and objective as possible. Rigidity can be meaningless or harm¬ 
ful, but staying with the derived information for the sake of ac¬ 
curacy reaches to the very heart of the matter. 


General 

premises 




CHAPTER 25: DELINEATION PROCEDURE 


C. PREPARE A DELINEATION OUTLINE OF THE 
ENERGIES. 

This part of the procedure is identical to the beginning of Hal 
Allen’s delineation in Chapter 21. Performing these steps in 
order will insure that all the required information is included. 


STEP 2 

STUDY THE CORE ELEMENTS AND MODIFIERS. 

Perform these steps either in your head or by jotting down 
notes. 

A. STUDY THE CORE ELEMENTS AND THE RELATION 
OF THEIR ENERGIES. 

B. STUDY THE HARMONY OR DISCORD OF THE 
ENERGIES. 

C. STUDY THE EFFECTIVENESS OR INEFFECTIVE¬ 
NESS OF THE CORE ELEMENTS. 

D. DETERMINE THE STRONG MODIFIERS AND STUDY 
THEIR EFFECT ON THE CORE ENERGIES. 

STEP 3 

VISUALIZE THE SUBJECT. 

Concentrate on the core elements and the strong modifiers. 
Based on what you determined in Step 2, do you get a clear pic¬ 
ture of the probable .type of person described by these energies? 

At first, you may have to spend a good deal of time weighing 
the energies before you are able to the visualize the individual. 
With practice, you’ll begin to visualize the subject as you pro¬ 
ceed with Step 2. Take all the time you need here, until the 
visualization begins to develop comfortably. 

This step is the heart of the advanced procedure. If this step 
feels too difficult, you may need more practice in the basic 
delineation. 


STEP 4 

PREPARE A FORMAT FOR THE DELINEATION BY 
LISTING PRINCIPAL TRAITS. 

I give most of my delineations orally, but I usually work from a 
one- or two-page written format. When I prepare a typed 
reading I work from the same outline. I use the following basic 
format for my delineations: 





CHAPTER 25: DELINEATION PROCEDURE 


425 


when one division follows directly after the other. Or, if there’s 
a great deal of emphasis on emotions—say, a 6 Expression with 
five related modifiers—perhaps the section on emotions could 
either be combined with the Expression section, or follow 
directly. And, similarly, a great deal of emphasis on mental 
matters—a 7 Life Path with four related modifiers—may 
justify combining the section on the mind with the Life Path, 
or having it follow directly. 

Adjust the format, then, in order to achieve the maximum of 
clarity and the best flow from division to division. Always start 
with the description of the lesson of the Life Path and the Life 
Path traits. This is the most important information in the 
delineation and needs the prominence of a position at the 
beginning for maximum emphasis. And, no matter what the 
order of the divisions, always end on a positive note! 

If a characteristic relates specifically to the individual’s mind 
or mental ability, list that characteristic in the “Mind” division 
rather than with its modifier. In the same way, list traits 
related to emotions or affection in the “Emotions” division. 
Each trait is listed as a word or phrase along with a note in¬ 
dicating from which element or modifier the trait is derived. 
List similar traits (and their derivations) along with the original 
trait listed. 

The traits listed come, of course, from the charts and your 
experience. Refer also to the continuums on chart 13: the 
numbers—advanced symbolism for additional input. 

The traits of the Directing Modifiers are usually listed at the 
end of the format. These characteristics are discussed separate¬ 
ly and are not subject to modification by the other energies. 

Insert at appropriate places in the outline phrases which 
mention the harmony/discord and effectiveness/ineffectiveness 
of the several energies. 

STEP 5 

DELINEATE THE BASIC CHARACTER. 

Using the format prepared in Step 4 as a guide, discuss each 
characteristic listed in turn. 

The length of the delineation of the traits of each element 
and its related modifiers is an indication of the importance of 
that particular element. The discussion of the Life Path and its 
related modifiers should always be the longest, followed by the 
somewhat shorter discussion of the Expression and its modifiers 
and shorter still discussions of the Soul Urge and Birthday. In 







CHAPTER 26 : DELINEATION EXAMPLE 


427 


CHAPTER 26 


ADVANCED CHARACTER 
DELINEATION: 

AN EXAMPLE 


“Tapwa” has been a close friend for about ten years. She’s 
forty-three now (1981), divorced, with an eleven-year-old son 
and a seven-year-old daughter. She’s a junior high school 
teacher in a large California city. Because she’s grown a lot 
over the years ancj overcome many of the obstacles described in 
her complex chart, I felt that she would be an especially in¬ 
teresting subject. Tapwa was kind enough to allow me to use 
her delineation in this work. 

To protect my friend’s privacy. I’ve constructed a name and 
a birthdate with virtually all the core elements and modifiers 
identical with her actual core elements and modifiers. So, 
although Tapwa Cern Nays is a pseudonym, and although the 
birthday, too, has been revised, the “constructed data” 
represents a very real person indeed. 

I asked my friend for her comments after I had completed 
the reading. I wanted her to give concrete examples from her 
life to illustrate points covered in the delineation. I asked for 
any additional comments, as she saw fit, to give an under¬ 
standing of her personal view of some of the abstractions dis¬ 
cussed. I think you’ll appreciate Tapwa’s articulate manner as 
you peruse a portion of her commentary appended after the de¬ 
lineation. I think the notes serve to indicate the general ac¬ 
curacy of the reading as well as its relevance to her. 

The delineation, of course, follows the advanced procedure 
outlined in the last chapter. 


Introducing 
my friend 
“Tapwa” 




CHAPTER 26: DELINEATION EXAMPLE 


429 


September 16, 1938 

9 +\7j + 3 

9-3 = 6 
7-3 = 4 
6-4 = 2 CHALLENGE 

2 + 5 + 8 = 15 = © 

115 17 

TAPWA CERN NAYS 

2 7 5 3 9 5 5_T 

(14) 5 + (17) 8 + 6 = 19 = , 1 SECRET SELF 

21751 3595 5171 

(16) 7 + 22 + (14) 5 = 34 = 



four l’s 
one 2 
one 3 
no 4 
four 5’s 
no 6 
two 7’s 
no 8 
one 9 


PHYSICAL 

WE 

2-Average 

MENTAL 

APANNA 

6-Strong 

EMOTIONAL 

TRS 

3-Average 

INTUITIVE 

CY 

2-Average 


MATURITY NUMBER = 1 + 7 = 8 


EFFECTIVENESS: 

6 

© -@)= 5 

© - _1 
12 


Figure 26-1 
Calculation Sheet: 
Tapwa Cern Nays 





CHAPTER 26 : DELINEATION EXAMPLE 


431 


With 1 energy aimed at outward achievement and recognition, 
7 energy directed to inner peace and study, and 6 energy 
devoted to love and family, the three energies have little in 
common. 


B. STUDY THE HARMONY OR DISCORD OF THE 

ENERGIES. 

T7: In early years, at least, usually extremely discor¬ 

dant. Self-centered, dependent, inflexible. 

When the problems have been overcome, the 
energies may still be discordant, with the 1 want¬ 
ing to move out in the world in a strong manner, 
the 7 tending to be introspective and different. 

1-6: Usually discordant. The 1 is involved with its own 

needs, the 6 in giving to others. There’s probably 
a drastic pull between the energies. 

6-7: Usually discordant. The 6 tends to be emotional and 

concerned with others, the 7 is likely to be re¬ 
pressed and turned inward. Again, there’s a dras¬ 
tic pull between the energies. 


C. STUDY THE EFFECTIVENESS OR INEFFECTIVE¬ 
NESS OF THE CORE ELEMENTS 

7 Expression minus 1 Life Path = 6. Abilities substanti¬ 
ally OUtWeigh the opportunities. 

6 Soul Urge minus 1 Life Path = 5. Motivations 
outweigh opportunities. 

7 Expression minus 6 Soul Urge = 1. Effective balance of 
abilities and motivations. 

Although the motivations and abilities are well-balanced, 
there are likely to be too few opportunities for development. 
A good deal of frustration is likely, and probably some 
resentment. 


D. DETERMINE THE STRONG MODIFIERS AND STUDY 
THEIR EFFECT ON THE CORE ENERGIES. 

19/1 Karmic Debt: Problems with self-centeredness and 
dependence. 

16/7 Karmic Debt: Problems with being “different” and 
self-centered. 

7 Expression-7 Birthday and 7 Expression-7 sub-element: 
Self-contained and inflexible and/or timid and shy. 







CHAPTER 26: DELINEATION EXAMPLE 


433 


modifier from which the trait is derived. In this illustrative 
chapter, the traits are listed here but the derivation is noted as 
part of the step-by-step delineation in the following Step 5. 

The format for the delineation follows the general scheme 
described in the last chapter with two exceptions. First, since 
there’s a 7 Expression and a 7 Birthday, these two elements and 
the related modifiers are described together. Second, since all 
the modifiers relate directly to one or another of the core 
elements, there are no modifiers and no traits listed in the divi¬ 
sion marked “MISCELLANEOUS MODIFIERS.” 


LIST OF PRINCIPAL TRAITS 
+ = positive traits 

+ / - = traits which can be positive or negative 
- = negative traits or obstacles 


LIFE PATH AND RELATED MODIFIERS 

1 LIFE PATH 
19/1 KARMIC DEBT 
FOUR l’s INTENSITY POINT 

1 PRIME INTENSIFIER 
1 SECRET SELF 
4 KARMIC LESSON 
8 KARMIC LESSON 
8 ' MATURITY NUMBER 


List of 
principal 
traits to be 
discussed 
in the 
delineation 


+ 1. Learn the benefits of independence. Learn to stand 
on own two feet. Accomplish, attain. 

+ 2. Leader, creator, etc. 

+ 3. Attainment, satisfaction. 

+ 4. Practicality. 

+ 5. Organization, details. 

+ 6. Working hard. 

+ 7. Inner strength, ambition, self-confidence. 

- 8. Self-centered. 

- 9. Lack of awareness of others. 

- 10. Strong personal needs. 

-11. Repressing needs. 

- 12. Problems with money and material satisfactions. 

- 13. Dependent. 

- 14. Fearful, timid, etc. 

-15.’Stubborn, self-contained. 

-16. Dominating. 




CHAPTER 26: DELINEATION EXAMPLE 


435 


DIRECTING MODIFIERS 

TEMPERAMENT: STRONG MENTAL 
FIRST LETTER: T 

FIRST VOWEL: A 

+ 38. Balanced temperament. 

+ 39. General approach: cautious expansion. 


STEP 5 

DELINEATE THE BASIC CHARACTER. 

Each trait (from the list compiled in Step 4) is shown along 
with the element or modifier from which the trait is derived. 
Explanatory information about the trait and general commen¬ 
tary is shown in italics. 

The delineation itself is shown indented. 


The 

delineation 
for Tapwa 
Cern Nays 


NUMEROLOGY DELINEATION 
FOR 

TAPWA CERN NAYS 
BORN SEPTEMBER 16,1938 


TRAIT 1 

LEARN THE BENEFITS OF INDEPENDENCE. LEARN TO 

STAND ON OWN TWO FEET. ACCOMPLISH, ATTAIN. 

(1 LIFE PATH) 

The lesson is placed first in the reading for maximum emphasis. 

The major number in a numerology chart is called 
the Life Path, and your major number, Tapwa, is a 
1. There's a lesson for each Life Path—that lesson 
is likely to be an important focus in your life. The 
lesson of the number 1 is simply this: learn the 
benefits of independence. This is a two-part 
lesson—first, learn to stand on your own two feet, 
learn not to lean on or depend on others. Second, 
go on to be a leader or creator with a life of ac¬ 
complishment. Some people with this Life Path 
spend most of their life on the first part and have 
little time left for accomplishment. Others with 
this Path, like Martin Luther King, spend little time 
on the first part and most of the life in a period of 
superior attainment. 





CHAPTER 26: DELINEATION EXAMPLE 


437 


merits although your progress may not be as quick 
as you'd like. There can be praise from others as 
well as the possibility of financial gain. 

TRAIT 4 

PRACTICALITY. 

(4 KARMIC LESSON 
8 KARMIC LESSON 
8 MATURITY NUMBER) 

The strong 7 energy tends to be dreamy and idealistic and 
causes a conflict here. 

It's important that you act practically, but I 
suspect that you had work to do to develop a 
relatively realistic approach. There was probably 
something of a dreamy or idealistic side to you 
which probably conflicted. As you've gotten older, 
you've probably gotten far more realistic. I expect 
you've been aware of the benefits. 

TRAIT 5 

ORGANIZATION, DETAILS. 

(4 KARMIC LESSON) 

7 energy tends to help here. 

Organization .and concern with detail are also im¬ 
portant, E>ut both are likely to come more readily. 

TRAIT 6 

WORKING HARD. 

(4 KARMIC LESSON) 

It’s not clear if Tapwa started out capable of hard work. At her 
current age of 43, I’d expect she’d learned this lesson by now 
and would delineate it accordingly. 

There's likely to be a good deal of hard work in 
your life. You must be willing to work, concen¬ 
trating your efforts and continuing no matter what 
the seeming restrictions. You probably still look at 
hard work as a limitation, at least part of the time. 
I hope you've stopped looking for easy ways out 
to avoid putting forward the required effort. Your 
growth is apt to have been severely limited until 
you accepted the need to work hard and patiently. 






CHAPTER 26: DELINEATION EXAMPLE 


439 


aware of others' needs. You may have undone 
yourself because of your inability to realistically 
see yourself in relation to others. Even today, you 
may still sometimes be surprised by others' nega¬ 
tive reactions to your endeavors. 

TRAIT 10 

STRONG PERSONAL NEEDS. 

(1 LIFE PATH 
1 PRIME INTENSIFIER) 

You probably still have strong personal needs, 
material needs in particular. When you can't get 
those needs met, you're likely to feel annoyed and 
frustrated. Although you have the courage of your 
convictions, you may be surprised at the conse¬ 
quences of acting on those convictions. You may 
still be struggling with the conflict between your 
needs and your strong sense of responsibility. 

The 1-6 conflict between the self-centered portion and the giv¬ 
ing portion is a very strong discord discussed in.more detail in 
the next paragraph. 

TRAIT 11 

REPRESSING NEEDS. 

(6 SOULrURGE 
16/7 KARMIC DEBT) 

The 6 and 7 energies are not part of the Life Path and related 
modifiers, but this is a good place to discuss the self- 
centered/selfless conflict. 

You may, by now, have learned to repress at least 
some of your needs in order to serve others, but 
this may cause you to feel resentful. In this regard, 
you may be interested to know that your chart in¬ 
dicates Karmic Debts, difficulties in this life as 
payment for misapplication of energies in a pre¬ 
vious life. In a past life, your selfishness caused 
suffering to others. In.this life, you must devote 
yourself to selfless, loving ways, subordinating 
your own needs, in order to repay the debt. Failure 
to be selfless and loving will cause problems 
which are likely to impede your achievement of in¬ 
dependence. In the light of the previous discussion 




CHAPTER 26: DELINEATION EXAMPLE 


441 


TRAIT 14 

FEARFUL, TIMID, ETC. 

(19/1 KARMIC DEBT 
7 EXPRESSION/7 BIRTHDAY 
7 EXPRESSION/7 SUB-ELEMENT 
2 CHALLENGE) 

Another problem strongly emphasized. The giving quality of 
the 6 energy may have added to the servility. 

In your beginning years, you were probably fearful 
and retiring, possibly even servile. Yet, at the same 
time, you were brimming with feeling. It's likely 
that you found it difficult to work with others 
because of your fear of being hurt by an unkind 
word or action or, worse yet, by being ignored. 
You've probably put in much'effort to learn not to 
worry about others' opinions of you. 


TRAIT 15 

STUBBORN, SELF-CONTAINED. 

(7 EXPRESSION/7 BIRTHDAY 

7 EXPRESSION/7 SUB-ELEMENT 
FOUR FS INTENSITY POINT 

8 MATURITY NUMBER 
FOUR 9’S INTENSITY POINT) 

Still another pr’Sblem strongly emphasized. Here, the adap¬ 
tability of the 6 energy can help a little , but five modifiers here 
make this a difficult area. 

In your youth and young adulthood, you were 
probably self-contained. I expect that you dis¬ 
played a lack of flexibility, a stubbornness and a 
somewhat restricted point of view. Only when 
you're more open and adaptable can the positive 
potential shine through. 


TRAIT 16 

DOMINATING. 

(1 LIFE PATH 
19/1 KARMIC DEBT 
FOUR l’S INTENSITY POINT) 

The 7 energy tends to be retiring, the 6 energy is concerned 
with harmonizing. These energies would counter the tendency 
to dominate. 






CHAPTER 26: DELINEATION EXAMPLE 


443 


TRAIT 19 

PEACE AND FAITH. 

(7 EXPRESSION 
7 GROWTH NUMBER) 

This paragraph discusses the 7 Growth Number and the very 
available energy for Tapwa’s growth. Note that the discussion 
blends concepts related to the Growth Number with the de¬ 
scription of other energy so that the Growth Number is dis¬ 
cussed as part of the total picture, without undue special 
emphasis. 

Because of your spiritual awareness, you have the 
potential to retire into your very depths to find 
faith and peace. The peacefulness I'm talking 
about will come only from within —it has little to 
do with money or material matters. I doubt that 
you found this serenity in your young years —there 
were probably too many obstructions. I expect 
that you started to develop this potential about 
your mid-thirties. 

TRAIT 20 

INTROSPECTIVE. 

(7 EXPRESSION) 

The introspective trait is usually a strong characteristic with a 7 

core element. ■ „ 

... - . ► 

There's likely to be an introspective side to you. 
You probably withdraw from time to time to re¬ 
charge your batteries. You might be the sort of per¬ 
son who needs some time alone every day, or you 
might just go off by yourself once a month or so. 
At any rate, this introspection, combined with the 
fear and shyness we previously discussed, may 
have kept you somewhat aloof from others, partic¬ 
ularly in your early years. 

TRAIT 21 

BEING ALONE. 

(7 EXPRESSION 
7 BIRTHDAY 
7 GROWTH NUMBER 

The 6 energy works-well with others and is discussed in 



CHAPTER 26: DELINEATION EXAMPLE 


445 


which may give you an unusual viewpoint and out- 
of-the-ordinary ideas as well as unique approaches 
and solutions to problems. You're apt to get a lot 
of benefit from your different approach. 

Sometimes, though, because of that special wave¬ 
length, you may have difficulty clearly communi¬ 
cating your ideas to others. Others may have to 
work to get to know you because, at times, they 
may be disconcerted or confused by your point of 
view. This “different" wavelength, along with your 
introspective nature, may get in the way of per¬ 
manent relations such as marriage or business 
partnerships. 

TRAIT 24 

LACK OF TRUST, ETC. 

(7 EXPRESSION 
7 BIRTHDAY) 

This paragraph brings together a lot of the negative 7 
characteristics. Tapwa has so much to deal with that I didn’t 
want to emphasize these traits, but, in the interest of an honest 
reading, they should be mentioned. 

In your youth and young adulthood, you may have 
stressed your inward-turning ways and shown little 
trust in others. You may have been critical, unsym¬ 
pathetic or intolerant. There may have been a 
moodiness displayed along with nervousness and 
irritability. A stress on perfectionism may also 
have been present. All of these characteristics, of 
course, would push others away. As you've elimi¬ 
nated these traits, you've undoubtedly done away 
with many of your early problems. 

TRAIT 25 

DECEPTIONS. 

(16/7 KARMIC DEBT) 

This negative potential is a difficult one. 

Remember my mentioning your Karmic Debts? 
Some of the problem areas we've just been discus¬ 
sing are related to these debts. In addition, be¬ 
cause of them, you may, at times, meet with 




CHAPTER 26: DELINEATION EXAMPLE 


447 


TRAIT 29 

RECTIFYING, BALANCING, ETC. 

(6 SOUL URGE 

6 MODIFIED KARMIC LESSON) 

A strong positive potential. 

Along with your strong sense of responsibility, 
you're capable of rectifying and balancing situa¬ 
tions, acting as a peacemaker, when necessary. (In 
your younger days, you may have mistaken inter¬ 
fering or being too protective with being helpful.) 
You're most capable of working with others, and 
it's at these times that your harmonizing abilities 
are put to good use. These attributes are likely to 
be especially visible in marriage and parenting 
situations. In a marriage, you may well be the 
one who keeps everything balanced and running 
smoothly. 

TRAIT 30 

HOME AND FAMILY. 

(6 SOUL URGE) 

As a matter of fact, one of the focuses of your life 
is likely to be home, family and close friends. This 
could mean, at different times in your life, the 
family, revqlvmg around your parents, or the fami¬ 
ly you start with your husband. Much of your 
energy is likely to be devoted to the family and 
much of your satisfaction (or lack of satisfaction) 
is probably derived here at home. Sometimes, you 
need the safety of home and convention; at other 
times, you're desirous of breaking with the very 
conventions that previously proved satisfying. 

The break with convention is partly due to the 1 energy, even 
more strongly to the 7 energy. 

TRAIT 31 

CREATIVE, ARTISTIC. 

(6 SOUL URGE) 

There's an artistic side to you—you may enjoy 
creative activity in music, writing or the visual 
arts. This is not likely to be as strong as some of 





CHAPTER 26: DELINEATION EXAMPLE 


like. But, as you get more comfortable with re¬ 
sponsibility, as you learn to feel comfortable being 
alone, you're likely to find the satisfactions you 
originally wanted from your home and family. 


TRAIT 33 

FINE MIND. 

(7 EXPRESSION 
7 BIRTHDAY 

TWO 7’S INTENSITY POINT) 

The 6 ■ 7 conflict again . 

You have a fine mind, capable of analyzing and 
discriminating, capable of deep mental analysis 
when needed. Although you're capable of a logi¬ 
cal, rational approach, you probably don't pro¬ 
ceed that way all the time because of the strength 
of your feelings. 


TRAIT 34 

STRONG EMOTIONS, REPRESSED IN EARLY YEARS. 

(6 SOUL URGE 
7 EXPRESSION 
7 BIRTHDAY 

TWO 7’S INTENSITY POINT 
ONE 9 INTENSITY POINT 

The 6- 7 conflict still another time. Both the 6 and 7 indicate 
strong feelings, but the 7 indicates strong repressed feelings. 
Because of Tapwa’s age. I’d expect that she’s gotten rid of a 
good deal of the repression. 

Let's talk about your strong emotions. Early in life, 
I expect you emphasized the inner person that 
we've discussed so that, to a large extent, you sup¬ 
pressed most of those deep feelings. You probably 
showed little emotion and had difficulty under¬ 
standing others' emotional responses as well. You 
may have shown little sympathy or compassion. 

As you've grown older, I presume that you've 
achieved a better balance and can now comfor¬ 
tably express a good deal of those strong feelings. 



CHAPTER 26; DELINEATION EXAMPLE 


451 


Use your fine intuition to balance your deep feel¬ 
ings, your excellent mind, your sensitivity. Trust 
your intuition to lead you in the direction of 
growth. 


Transition paragraph to a discussion of the Directing 
Modifiers. 

The delineation, so far, has been covering the 
range of your energies along with some of the hin¬ 
drances to their positive use. Let's look at your 
disposition now to get a picture of how you tend 
to apply your potentials. 

TRAIT 38 

BALANCED TEMPERAMENT. 

(STRONG MENTAL COMPONENT) 

You have a reasonably balanced disposition; 
you're likely to show a bit more emphasis on men¬ 
tal or intellectual matters than on physical, emo¬ 
tional or spiritual affairs. It's likely that you'll use 
your fine mind a good deal. Facts and logic are apt 
to prove significant motivating forces. 

Your abihty to accomplish and lead may stress 
these intellectual attributes. I'd expect a good 
deal of effort devoted to study, research and fun¬ 
damentals—here you can make good use of your 
fine powers of analysis. Your ability to harmonize 
and balance is related to your deep feelings, but 
even here I would expect to see the working of 
your strong analytic capabilities. 

TRAIT 39 

GENERAL APPROACH: CAUTIOUS EXPANSION. 

(FIRST VOWEL A 
FIRST LETTER T) 

The leadership potential of the A is in conflict with the follower 
potential of the T. 

Although you have a strong underlying desire to 
expand your life and cut loose from the strictures 
you find, I suspect that you proceed in a relatively 




CHAPTER 26: DELINEATION EXAMPLE 


453 


2 + (12) 3 

11 3 9 

TAPWA MUFIL 

21751 43693 

(16) 7 + (25) 7 


(MARRIED NAME) 



two l’s 
one 2 
two 3’s 
one 4 
one 5 
one 6 
one 7 
no 8 
one 9 


PHYSICAL 

WM 

2-Average 

MENTAL 

APAL 

4-Strong 

EMOTIONAL 

TI 

2-Average 

INTUITIVE 

UF 

2-Average 


EFFECTIVENESS: 



18 


Figure 26-3 
Calculation Sheet: 
Tapwa Mufil 


The 5 Expression/5 Soul Urge replaces the 7 Expression/7 
Birthday of the birth core. 

The birth core is discordant but the new core is even 
more discordant. 

The birth core is ineffective but the new core is even 
more ineffective. 

B. COMPARE THE KARMIC DEBTS. 

A 14/5 Karmic Debt with the new Expression is not pres¬ 
ent in the birthname. 

C. COMPARE THE INTENSITY TABLES. 

One 4 replaces the 4 Karmic Lesson of the birthname. 

One 6 replaces the 6 Modified Karmic Lesson of the 
birthname. 




CHAPTER 26: DELINEATION EXAMPLE 


455 


of accomplishment or satisfaction. There may 
even have been some fear of freedom, a fear of 
taking risks (even while taking them) which added 
to your frustration. There may have been an ex¬ 
cessive pull toward food, drink, drugs or sex. 

One 4 in the married name replaces the 4 Karmic Lesson of the 
birthname. 

One 6 in the married name replaces the 6 Modified Karmic 
Lesson of the birthname. 

At the same time that you felt these strong effects, 
there was probably a little less emphasis on hard 
work and responsibility. 

I expect that these changed energies may hardly 
have been noticed because of the feelings of 
restlessness and the fear of taking risks. 

No 7 energy in the married name replaces the 7 Expression of 
the birthname. The 7 is the Growth Number. 

You may well have felt less ability to find the 
peace and poise which you desired than before 
you were married. The peace you sought wasn't 
easy to approach before, but, in some way, it 
seemed even further away when you used your 

married name, 

... - . > 

Marriage, in effect, is likely to have given you the 
hope of a freer and more expansive life—a hope 
with much promise and little return which prob¬ 
ably tantalized and frustrated you. 

There is no mention of the increased discordance and ineffec¬ 
tiveness in the married name. These are of little consequence in 
comparison to the 5-5 and the 1415. 


STEP 8 

CALCULATE AND ORGANIZE THE DATA RELATED TO 
THE NEW NAME: ALBA SAME MUFILOH. 

Look at the partial calculation sheet (Figure 26-4 on page 456): 

A. COMPARE THE BIRTH CORE TO THE NEW CORE. 
The 3 Expression replaces the 7 Expression of the birth 
core. 




CHAPTER 26: DELINEATION EXAMPLE 


457 


Two 6’s replace the 6 Modified Karmic Lesson of the 
birthname. 

One 8 replaces the 8 Karmic Lesson of the birthname. 

D. COMPARE THE SUB-ELEMENTS. 

The 3 Expression/3 sub-element replaces the 7 Expres¬ 
sion/7 sub-element of the birthname. 

E. COMPARE THE MATURITY NUMBER TO BOTH 
NAMES. 

The 8 Soul Urge in the new name relates to the 8 Matur¬ 
ity Number. There’s no related energy in the birth¬ 
name. 

F. COMPARE THE TEMPERAMENTS. 

No change. 

G. COMPARE THE FIRST LETTERS AND FIRST 
VOWELS. 

The only change is the omission of the First Letter T in 
the new name. 

H. COMPARE THE GROWTH NUMBER TO BOTH 
NAMES. 

The 7 Expression of the birthname relates to the 7 
Growth Number. There’s no 7 energy in the new 
name. 

STEP 9 ( > 

DELINEATE THE EFFECT OF THE NEW NAME: ALBA 
SAME MUFILOH. 

This new name introduces some new energy, but since the new 
energy is similar to some of the basic potential, the new energy 
is relatively usable. This new energy also helps convert some of 
the basic potential to more usable energy. The effect of this 
new name is similar to the case of Abbie Dumas Jefferson in 
Chapter 24. Here’s the delineation for Alba: 


The 8 Soul Urge (and the energy associated with the 8 Maturity 
Number) are similar to the 1 Life Path energy. 

When you use the name Alba Same Mufiloh, as 
you do now, you pick up some extremely positive 
potential. You're likely to strengthen your execu¬ 
tive abilities along with the vision and imagination 






CHAPTER 26: DELINEATION EXAMPLE 


459 


The slight difference in ineffectiveness is of little consequence 
and is ignored. 

You probably feel that your energies flow together 
somewhat more harmoniously with your new 
name. That feeling of harmony will make it easier 
to make positive use of your potentials. 


After Tapwa read the above delineation, she and I discussed 
the reading and I made a tape recording of her comments. The 
following is a portion of a transcription of her remarks: 

TRAIT 1 

LEARN THE BENEFITS OF INDEPENDENCE. LEARN TO 
STAND ON OWN TWO FEET. ACCOMPLISH, ATTAIN. 

My lesson of learning the benefits of in¬ 
dependence, that's really true. I'm still working on 
it. I'm in the process of learning that it is, in fact, 
absolutely vital to me. Even now I realize, like 
when 1 feel too wrapped up in my future —since 
I'm going to get married again —I think "Whoa! 
You take care that you stand on your own two 
feet, young lady. . . ." 


Some 
comments 
on the 
delineation 
by the 
subject 


TRAIT 2 

LEADER, CREATOR, ETC. 

I don't know about leader and creator. ... I feel a 
sense of that in terms of my work, in terms of 
teaching. ... It ties in with my feeling of com¬ 
petence. You're saying I'm capable of taking 
charge, organizing. I'm definitely capable. I do 
that at work. In terms of inspiring others, that's an 
area where I'm instrumental sometimes in making 
a difference, not just in my children but teachers I 
work with. I definitely know that I have that ability 
if 1 choose to put energy into it. . . . 


TRAIT 3 

ATTAINMENT, SATISFACTION. 

I've yet to see any decent financial gain. . . . 





CHAPTER 26: DELINEATION EXAMPLE 


461 


been a driving force for me to change and, in that 
respect, I'm grateful for it. I don't look on this as a 
great quality of mine, but it was a good thing, it 
served a purpose. Hopefully, I don't have to use 
it any more ... I'd like that to be different. Now, 
I'm putting more energy into true giving, not 
reciprocation. . . . 

TRAIT 11 

REPRESSING NEEDS. 

Definitely, if 1 have to repress my needs I feel 
resentful. ... I don't know how big my Karmic 
Debt is, but it feels like it must have been a 
whopper. . . .This was one of the hardest parts to 
relate to. A part of me just still screams out "This 
isn't fair!" I feel like I've had so much to overcome 
and I've done a lot of it, and still I have to subor¬ 
dinate my needs. 

TRAIT 12 

PROBLEMS WITH MONEY AND MATERIAL SATIS¬ 
FACTIONS. 

I don't know if I was careless with money. I don't 
relate to that, but I feel like I've always had prob¬ 
lems in relation to money. . . I have a different at¬ 
titude now. . . .1 think I understand money a little 
bit better than I used to. I see it more as an ex¬ 
change. ... When I got divorced, I was terrified 
about money. I did not know how to do the ac¬ 
counting at all. It had to do with who was respon¬ 
sible for it. . . . For the last few years, I am just 
constantly wishing I had more money. ... 

TRAIT 13 

DEPENDENT. 

Absolutely! Right! This paragraph was just very, 
very realistic, very right on to me. 

TRAIT 14 

FEARFUL, TIMID, ETC. 

When I was a little girl, I was very shy, I was very 







CHAPTER 26: DELINEATION EXAMPLE 


463 


tial. I don't know why but I find it a little 
fearful. .. .It's like reaching a boundary and 
pushing through the boundary. I'm not quite ready 
to push through. 

TRAIT 20 
INTROSPECTIVE. 

Absolutely! I do withdraw to recharge my bat¬ 
teries. I also withdraw just to withdraw. . . .The 
house is so small, it's real difficult. When my 
children leave, I'll spend a weekend alone in the 
house, quite content, quite peaceful ... I didn't 
realize how vital that was. . . . 

TRAIT 21 
BEING ALONE. 

I'm working on it. I've been working on it for a 
long time. I feel like I can do that to some 
degree ... a long time ago, lonely was a problem. 

TRAIT 22 

DISCORDANT 1-7 ENERGY. 

I always see myself as pretty shy, although much 
less than I used to be, for the most part. . . .But the 
arena in which I'm the least shy is my work actual¬ 
ly. I do a lot of leading there. I'm basically pretty 
outspoken. 

TRAIT 23 

“DIFFERENT” WAVELENGTH. 

I don't know about these paragraphs, I don't think 
so ... I think that what gets in the way for me of 
permanent relationships or anything else is my un¬ 
willingness to be myself. In a sense, it's a problem 
with communication because when I'm not 
myself, I'm not communicating. 

TRAIT 24 
LACK OF TRUST. 

I haven't shown trust. . .I've definitely been very 
intolerant. In ways, I'm still intolerant of other 
people and certainly of myself. . . .1 have a perfec- 






CHAPTER 26: DELINEATION EXAMPLE 


465 


TRAIT 30 

HOME AND FAMILY. 

The home and family are really a very good focus 
in my life. When I was young, until about eighteen, 
and went away to college, the home was the most 
important part of my life . . . I'm a real nester. 
Even when my husband had flown, my children 
were my nest. . . .In any way that I can be extreme¬ 
ly upset, it will come from my home. Other things 
can bother me but that rocks me right down to the 
bottom. 

TRAIT 31 

CREATIVE, ARTISTIC. 

Yes, I think there's an artistic side, but I'm only 
beginning to do that. .. . 

TRAIT 32 

INEFFECTIVENESS OF ENERGY. 

It bothers me at school. I am really quite compe¬ 
tent but nobody sees me as that, not really, and I 
don't toot my horn, maybe that's a part of it. . . .1 
feel like I have a dedication and a commitment 
that is extremely strong and that it is rarely picked 
up by anyone as being of any value. . . .1 feel like I 
don't always know what's best for me, that, 
sometimes, something that may not seem to be 
right on the money really turns out to be 
something important.. . . 

TRAIT 33 

FINE MIND. 

No comment. 

TRAIT 34 

STRONG EMOTIONS, REPRESSED IN EARLY YEARS. 

I'm starting to change and deciding I don't want to 
be 100% on my feelings. It seems like years ago 1 
was always either angry, depressed, or sad —a lit¬ 
tle bit of happy in relation to the children.I feel 

like my feelings totally dominate my existence at 



CHAPTER 26: DELINEATION EXAMPLE 


467 


TRAIT 39 

GENERAL APPROACH: CAUTIOUS EXPANSION. 

I don't cut loose and go for it in life. I'm real 
cautious. . . .Opposition doesn't change my mind; I 
just stop presenting. . . .1 do feel frustrated 
because I don't focus myself.. . .It's easier for me 
not to make a big issue. 1 don't want to hassle 
it. .. 


TAPWA’S COMMENTS ON HER MARRIED NAME, TAPWA 
MUFIL: 

The married name was my depressed place. All I 
did was get depressed. When I got married, I lost 
my feelings of independence. . . .1 don't remember 
too well, but I remember a definite fear of 
freedom. . . 

I definitely didn't have any feeling of peace or 
poise for a long time. I don't know that I ever had 
it with that name. ... I felt it somewhat when the 
children were born, for a short period of time. . . . 

So hard for me to give anything to that name. I felt 
there was this big life opening up for me . . . and 
nothing happened good except the children. And, 
as for me, who I had been before that marriage, it 
was horrible, a devastation of me. I felt that I was 
a pretty strong, capable, independent person when 
I met my ex-husband. By the timeweweredivorced, 
I used to say 1 was a carrot, most of me under¬ 
ground, a few. leaves on top. I had totally sub¬ 
merged my being. I had no clear picture of who I 
was at all. 


AND FINALLY, HER FEELINGS ABOUT HER NEW 
NAME, ALBA SAME MUFILOH: 

The new name is really very significant to me. I 
wanted more of a feeling of self than I had 
. . . .When I started therapy I decided to change 
my name, and that was a big step. . . .This was the 




PART V: 

PROGRESSED 

DELINEATION 



CHAPTER 27: INTRODUCTION 


471 


CHAPTER 27 

INTRODUCTION TO 
PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


At certain times in your life, you’ve probably had the feeling 
that the opportunities are available for exactly what you want 
to do. At other times, you’ve undoubtedly experienced the feel¬ 
ing that nothing’s going right, that you don’t seem to be able to 
make the contacts you need and that you can’t find a satisfac¬ 
tory outlet for the strong capabilities you have. 

At any particular time in your life, there are specific energies 
and influences in operation which are not directly related to 
your basic characteristics. These energies and influences can be 
mapped by numerplogy. You can determine in advance the 
times of greatest opportunity. You can foresee problems and 
the areas in which they’re likely to occur. Or, you can look 
back and get a clear picture of why some past experiences were 
so satisfying while others were so uncomfortable. 

The mapping of these forces is accomplished by preparing a 
progressed delineation, a reading describing the probable 
events and opportunities at any specified time in the life. Some 
students are especially delighted at this point. “Aha!” they say, 
“now I’ll be able to foretell the future.” I’m sorry to say this 
isn’t true. The progressed delineation won’t allow you to 
predict your future or anyone else’s, but it will allow you to: 

determine the influences operating at any time in an in¬ 
dividual’s life; 

determine when an individual’s various energies can 
each be put to the best use; 

determine the times when obstacles to the use of various 
energies may be present; 







CHAPTER 27: INTRODUCTION 


473 


In Chapters 28 and 29, we’ll introduce the long term cycles. 
We’ll show how they’re calculated, describe their duration, 
their particular effect and their significance. 

In Chapter 30, we’ll discuss the synthesis of the two long 
term cycles. 

In Chapters 31 and 32, we’ll examine the medium term 
cycles in similar detail and, in Chapter 33, we’ll synthesize 
these cycles. 

In Chapters 34 and 35, we’ll describe the short term cycles. 

Finally, in Chapter 36, we’ll illustrate the synthesis of all the 
progressed cycles covered in the preceding chapters. 


Our plan of 
study for 
progressed 
cycles 


An individual’s response to a cycle depends, among other 
things, on the energy available to that individual, the energy 
described by the individual’s core and modifiers. Karen, for in¬ 
stance, with strong energy devoted to carrying responsibility, is 
likely to find many opportunities in a cycle requiring the carry¬ 
ing of responsibility. Given the desire to take advantage of the 
available opportunities, Karen is likely to find much in the way 
of growth and expansion. On the other hand, Arthur, with 
strong energy devoted to the expression of freedom, may find 
that same cycle full of obstacles and restrictions. 

The response to a cycle probably will vary with age as well as 
desire for development. A child of ten usually reacts differently 
to a cycle emphasizing rest and meditation than an adult of 
twenty-five. A twenty year old is apt to react differently to a 
cycle stressinghdrd work than a forty year old. A person eager 
for growth is likely to use whatever influences are available 
and, in his own unique way, turn them to advantage. The in¬ 
dividual less interested in growth may use only those influences 
which are harmonious with his own energies. He will probably 
struggle or rebel against influences less directly related to his 
energies. 

The progressed delineation, then, should include not only 
the influences operating on an individual at a given time, but a 
description of the individual’s probable reaction to those in¬ 
fluences. I usually delineate the subject’s probable approach to 
the events and opportunities expected, but, if possible, I also 
indicate alternate approaches which may bring less problems 
along with additional growth. 


How an 
individual 
responds to 
the influences 
of the 
progressed 
cycles 


The progressed cycl.es are derived from the birthdate and 



CHAPTER 27: INTRODUCTION 


475 


When we’ve listed the years, the chart would look like Figure 
27-2, page 476. 

You can see that the rows on the right-hand side, up to the 
break at least, do indeed each represent one year. Let’s look at 
this just a little more closely. 

As the years proceed down the chart, the line at the top of 
each row represents the beginning of the year and the line at 
the bottom of the row represents the end of the year. 

The first row represents 1958. Line L represents the begin¬ 
ning of the year, January 1, 1958. Line M represents the end of 
the year, December 31, 1958. 


Age 

Medium Term 

Year 

Long Term 

Transits 

Essence 

Personal 

Year 

Universal 

Year 

Period 

Pinnacle 

| 



— 







__ 

_ 

_ 









_ 

_ 

_ 

■ 











■ 


K@a 

KOI 

(I) 

KOI 

KOI 

1 

I 

m 

m 

m 

m 

KOI 







_ 

_ 

_ 

_ 








_ 

. 

_ 

_ 








__ 

_ _ 

_ 









_ 

_ 

_ 

_ 








_ 

- 

_ 

_ 








_ 

_ 

_ 

_ 








_ 

_ 

__ 

_ 








_ 

_ 

_ 

_ 








_ 

_ 

_ 









_ 

_ 

_„ 

—— 








_ 

_ 

_ 

_ 








_ 

■ 

_ 

i . 


- 







H 

__ 

_ 








_ 

_ 

_ 

__ 








_ 

_ 

_ 

_ 








_ 

_ 

_ 

__ 








_ 

_ 

_ 

_ 








_ 

_ 


_ 








_ 

_ 

. 

_ 








_ 

_ 

. 









_ 

_ 

_ 

_ 








_ 

_ 

_ 

_ 

. 







_ - 

_ 

_ 

_ 








_ _ 

_ 

_ 

_ 








_ 

_ 

__ 

_ 









_ 

_ 

_ 








_ 

_ 

_ 

_ 








_ 

_ 

. 

_ 








_ 

_ 

_ 

_ 








_ 

_ 

_ 

_ 








_ 

_ 

_ 




















Figure 27-1 
. Progressed Chart 














CHAPTER 27: INTRODUCTION 


477 


day. We could, without too much trouble, actually divide each 
row into 12 spaces, each representing one month. We’ll do just 
that for 1958 and label the spaces with the name of each 
month. We’ll enlarge the row so it’s easier to see what we’re do¬ 
ing. Here’s the result: 


JANUARY 

FEBRUARY 

MARCH 

APRIL 

MAY _ 

JUNE 

JULY 

AUGUST 

SEPTEMBER 

OCTOBER 

NOVEMBER 

DECEMBER 


-0 


0 


Remember that Edna was born on June 30, 1958. In the dia¬ 
gram above, her day of birth would be represented by line P. 
(That line would also represent July 1, 1958.) If you look back 
at Figure 27-2 on page 476, line P, on the left side of the chart, 
is the same line P as in the enlarged diagram above. In both 
cases, line P, halfway between line L and line M, represents 
Edna’s day of birth. 

On Figure 27-2; lineQ, halfway between the beginning 
and end of 1959, represents Edna’s first birthday, and line R, 
halfway between the beginning and end of 1960, represents 
Edna’s second birthday. Between her first and second birthday, 
Edna is one year old, so we place a “1” in the “AGE” column in 
the row between lines Q and R. 

Does it sound strange that Edna is one year old in the second 
year of her life? (When you say that a child is one year old, 
that’s really a short way of indicating that the child has now 
lived one year and is now in the second year.) If Edna is one 
year old in her second year, then she would be two years old in 
her third year, three years old in her fourth year, and so on. 

We take note of this in the progressed chart by writing the 
numbers 1, 2, 3, etc., one in each row, down the “AGE” col¬ 
umn to the left (Figure 27-3 on page 478). For each age, the 
birthday representing the start of that age would be the line 
marking the top of the row with that age noted. In other 
words, the horizontal line between the row marked “26” and 
the row marked “27” represents the 27th birthday, and the 




CHAPTER 27: INTRODUCTION 


479 


THE LEFT-HAND ROWS, THEN, THE ROWS DIFFER¬ 
ENTIATED BY AGE, EACH REPRESENT A YEAR RUN¬ 
NING FROM BIRTHDAY TO BIRTHDAY. THE RIGHT- 
HAND ROWS, THE ROWS DIFFERENTIATED BY THE 
CALENDAR YEARS, EACH REPRESENT A YEAR START¬ 
ING ON JANUARY 1 AND ENDING ON DECEMBER 31. 
THE BREAK OCCURS BECAUSE, IN GENERAL, THE 
BIRTHDAY-TO-BIRTHDAY YEAR DOESN’T COINCIDE 
WITH THE CALENDAR YEAR. 


Now, Edna was conveniently born on June 30, exactly in the 
middle of the year. If she’d been born on July 28 or April 14, 
the rows on the left side of the chart would, theoretically, be a 
little lower or higher in relation to the rows on the right side. In 
practice, though, the progressed charts as shown, works just 
fine. The lines at the top and bottom of the rows at the left 
always represent the birthdays, no matter whether the birth¬ 
days fall early or late in the year. 


In the rest of Part V, we’ll be completing the progressed chart 
and interpreting the data. But even without filling out the rest 
of the chart, we can surmise that changes in the influences in a 
subject’s life occur (1) at the beginning of each calendar year 
(when changes occur in the cycles on the right side of the 
chart), and (2) at each birthday (when changes occur in the 
cycles on the left side of the chart). 


When 
changes 
occur in the 
influences on 
a subject’s 
life 


There are a few special times when the birthday year and the 
calendar year coincide (or virtually coincide). If Edna had been 
born on January 1, 1958, the beginning of the chart should look 
like Figure 27-4 on page 480. 

As you can see, the lines representing the birthdays here are a 
continuation of the lines representing January 1, and the rows 
are continuous across the entire chart. Since we’re using a pro¬ 
gressed chart form with a break in the middle, we indicate this 
special case by drawing short diagonals at the break line, as on 
Figure 27-5 on page 480. 

We delineate the progressed cycles, in this case, knowing 
that changes in the influences occur only once a year on 
January 1. 


Special case: 
Birthday on 
January 1 




CHAPTER 27: INTRODUCTION 


481 


Age 

Medium Term 

Year 

Long Term 

Transits 

Essence 

Personal 

Year 

Universal 

Year 


Period 

Pinnacle 



1958 



0 








1959 



1 








1960 



2 








1961 



3 








1962 



„_ i _ 

ZJ 

— _ 


— 




. — 

—— -1 



Figure 27-6 
Progressed Chart: 
Special Case 


If a subject is born anytime in the last half of December, the 
birthday year is virtually coincident with the succeeding calen¬ 
dar year. I delineate these charts as if the subject were born on 
December 31, with the changes in the influences just once a 
year on December 31/January 1. 


Special case: 
Birthday in 
the last half 
of December 


In this chapter, we’ll begin the progressed chart for Harlan 
William Allen, the fictitious subject first introduced in Volume 
1. You may want to refresh your memory about Harlan’s ener¬ 
gies by reading his complete character delineation on pages 
198-217 of Chapter 21, Volume 1, or a summary of his char¬ 
acter delineation on pages 217-218 of the same chapter. 

Harlan William Allen (or Hal Allen, as we’ll call him for 
short) was born on May 12, 1941. We can fill in the “YEAR” 
and “AGE” column’s just as we did previously for Edna Walker 
(Figure 27-8 on page 482). 

If we wanted Hal’s chart past age 35, we’d paste 2 sheets to¬ 
gether or continue on another sheet. Later, on pages 566-568 in 
Chapter 33, we’ll discuss a short-cut to determine the in¬ 
fluences at any age without having to figure all the years in 
between. 


Beginning a 
progressed 
chart for 
Hal Allen 


Age 

Medium Term 

Year 

Long Term | 

Transits 

Essence 

Personal 

Year 

Unlversa 

Year 

Period 

Pinnacle 

0 


““ 

“““ 





1958 



X 



1959 



1 






X 

X 



1960 



2 






x • 

X 



1961 



3 






X 

X 



1962 



4 






X 

X 




- __ 

_ 

_5_ 

_ „ 

_ _ 

_ 

— 

l—-—. 

X | 


Figure 27-7 
'Progressed Chart: 
Special Case 








Figure 27-9 

Blank Progressed Chart Form 




















CHAPTER 28: THE LIFE PATH PERIODS 


485 


CHAPTER 28 

LONG TERM CYCLES, PART 1: 
THE LIFE PATH PERIODS 


The two long term cycles, the Life Path Periods and the Pin¬ 
nacles, set the background tone for long phases of the life. They 
produce no abrupt or insistent effect, but, rather, are strong 
determinants of the general influences. They are important 
cycles. 


THE THREE LIFE PATH PERIODS IN EACH PERSON’S Definition 
LIFE DESCRIBE THE PROBABLE GENERAL IN¬ 
FLUENCES IN THE THREE PHASES OF THE LIFE AS 
ASPECTS OF THE LIFE PATH DIRECTION. (The Life 
Path Periods—or Periods, for short—are also often called 
Cycles, but the term “Cycles” is not used here to avoid confu¬ 
sion with the general term “cycles.”) When we discussed the 
Birthday element in Chapter 6 of Volume 1, we described the 
many different lanes of the Life Path highway. Here, we have 
a similar analogy. If you again think of the many-laned high¬ 
way of the Life Path, the Period is the lane on which the sub¬ 
ject is traveling at a particular time. The lane describes the 
general influences acting on the individual. Since there are 
three Periods, most people occupy three different lanes—or live 
under three different general influences—during the course of 
their lives. From a description of these probable influences, a 
subject can determine which of his energies will be most useful. 


The First Period, or Developmental Period of the Life Path, First 
covers youth and young adulthood. The important childhood Period 



CHAPTER 28: THE LIFE PATH PERIODS 


karmic number should be noted because it will probably 
strongly affect the Period. 


If Patty was born on October 18, 1951, her Life Path cal¬ 
culation would look like this: 


October 

1 


18, 



Her First Period is 1, the sub-element of the month. 
Her Second Period is 9, the sub-element of the day. 
Her Third Period is 16/7, the sub-element of the year. 
The 16/7 notation expresses the karmic number 
behind the year sub-element. ' 


A few more examples: 

December 14, 1950 

3 6 = 

First Period = 3 

Second Period = 14/5 

The 14/5 notation expresses the karmic number 
behind '{he day sub-element. 

Third Period = 6 



August 29, 
8 vll, 



First Period = 8 
Second Period = 11/2 

The 11/2 notation expresses a Period with a master 
number. 

Third Period = 9 


The First Period starts at birth. 

The Second Period starts on January 1 of the 1 Personal Year 
closest to the 28th birthday. 

The Personal Year is a medium term cycle described in 


Examples 


Time span 





PART V.- PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


488 


Chapter 31. To calculate the Personal Year, add the month of 
birth, day of birth and year under consideration (all reduced to 
a single digit or master number), then reduce the sum to a 
single digit or master number. 

Example: Ross was born on July 18, 1923. What’s his Per¬ 
sonal Year in 1981? 

Month of birth: July = 7 

Day of Birth: 18 = 1 + 8 = 9 

Year under consideration: 1981 

= 1 + 9 + 8+ 1 

■=T9 =_1 
17 

= 1 + 7 

= 8 Personal Year 

The Third Period starts on January 1 of the 1 Personal Year 
closest to the 56th birthday and continues the rest of the life. 

Here’s a chart for convenience: 


TIME SPAN OF LIFE PATH PERIODS 


Time 

Life 

Path 

First 

Period 

Second 

Period 

Third 

Period 

Span 

1 

age: 

0-26 

age: 

27-53 

age: 
54 oh 

Chart 

2or 11/2 

0-25 

26-52 

53 on 


3 

0-24 

25-51 

52 on 


Tor 22/4 

0-23 

24-59 

60 on 


5 

0-31 

32-58 

59 on 


6 

0-30 

31-57 

58 on 


7 

0-29 

30-56 

57 on 


8 

0-28 . 

29-55 

56 on 


9 

0-27 ■ 

28-54 

55 on 


Transition The transition between Periods tends to be gradual. Even 
between though the new Period starts in a 1 Personal Year, it usually is 
Periods t0 a degree two or three years before the 1 Personal 

Year. The old Period doesn’t stop abruptly at the 1 Personal 
Year, either, but its influence gradually fades away over the 
next two or three years. 


Example: 
Hal Allen’s 
calculation 


We’ll return to Hal Allen and determine his Periods and their 
time spans. 




CHAPTER 28: THE LIFE PATH PERIODS 


489 


Hal was born on 

May 12, 1941 

5 ^3, 6 = 

Hal has a 5 First Period. 

From the Time Span Chart, Hal’s First Period 
extends from birth to age 31. 

He has a 3 Second Period. 

From the Time Span Chart, Hal’s Second Period 
extends from age 32 to 58. 

He has a 6 Third Period. 

From the Time Span Chart, Hal’s Third Period 
extends from age 59 on. 



We can show this information on out calculation sheet like 
this: 


May 12 1941 

5 v3y 6 

(0-31) (32-58) (59 on) 



These notations are shorthand for the following: 


Hal’s 5 First Period starts at birth and continues, in full 
force, to the end of 1972 (age 31). It then fades out over the 
next two or three y6ars. 

Hal’s 3 Second Period is in full force from the beginning of 
1973 (the year in which Hal turns 32) to the end of 1999 (age 
58). It is probably first felt to a limited degree at the start of 
1970 (three years before 1973). It doesn’t completely fade out 
until the end of 2002 (three years after 1999). 

Hal’s 6 Third Period is in full force from the beginning of 
2000 (the year in which Hal turns 59) through the rest of his 
life. It is probably first felt to a limited degree at the start of 
1997 (three years before 2000). 


For ease in delineation, we’ll transfer all this information to 
Hal Allen’s progressed chart which we started in Chapter 27. 
With the information added, the chart would look like Figure 
28-1 on page 490. Note especially the strong horizontal lines at 
the start of the Second and Third Periods. The transition from 
one phase to another in any cycle is important. It’s emphasized 
on the chart by a horizontal line. 


Adding the 
Period data 
to Hal Allen’s 
progressed 
chart 






Figure 28-1 
Progressed Chart 
with Periods: 
Hal Allen 
















































































CHAPTER 28THE LIFE PATH PERIODS 


491 


chart 14: the life path periods, on page 696, describes 
the three different Periods for each of the single digits and 
master numbers. In general terms, the First Period usually 
displays limiting influences, the Second Period usually pro¬ 
duces influences and opportunities for expansion, and the 
Third Period sometimes describes influences supportive of re¬ 
flection and retirement, sometimes influences supportive of 
bustling activity. 

The strong negative influence of the karmic number is de¬ 
scribed in the bottom row of the chart. The negative impact 
would modify the general description of the particular Period. 
A 13/4 Second Period, for example, would be described by 
combining the general description of the 4 Period from the top 
row of the chart, the description of the 4 Second Period from 
the third row of the chart, and the description of the 13/4 kar¬ 
mic Period from the bottom row. The First Period, usually 
limiting enough, is never a karmic Period. 


A delineation of any Period includes the following: 

A. The general description of the influences along with the 
specific description of the First, Second or Third Period 
(from chart 14: the life path periods), expressed as an as¬ 
pect of the subject’s Life Path. It’s easier, of course, to read 
the general and specific description and ignore the Life 
Path, but the distortion that results should be apparent. 
Consider, for instance, a 5 Second Period on a 7 Life Path 
as compared to a 5 Second Period on a 5 Life Path. In the 
first example, the activity and change of the Period are like¬ 
ly to provide an uncomfortable backdrop for studious, 
meditative or introspective activities while, in the second 
case, the freedom and variety of the Period provide a fine 
stage for the individual’s expansive approach. 

With a 22 Period, describe both the 22 and 4 Periods, and 
with the 11 describe both the 11 and 2. (There’s never a 22 
First Period, and although the 11 First Period can exist 
mathematically, it always reduces to a 2 First Period.) The 
influences of both the higher and lower levels of the master 
number would probably be present, subject to the in¬ 
dividual’s desire or ability to use them. 

B. The karmic Period description, from the bottom row of 
chart 14: the life path periods, if applicable. The 
negative potential, along with suggestions for overcoming 
the obstacles, should be included. 

C. The subject’s potentials—both from the birthname and cur¬ 
rent name(s), as well as the birthday. A knowledge of 
the subject’s potentials provides insight into the individual’s 


Chart 14: 
Life Path 
Periods 


Delineation 

description 




492 


PART V; PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


ability to operate with the current influences. The core 
elements, Karmic Debts and Karmic Lessons may be of im¬ 
portance, along with any other strong modifiers which 
either flow or conflict with the influences. Usually, the 
elements or modifiers with a number matching the Period 
number are of particular import. 

D. Preparation for the next Period. This is usually of impor¬ 
tance only in the last few years of the current Period. 
Sometimes, though, when a Period is considerably different 
than the previous Period or when the influences of the 
Period may strongly conflict with the subject’s potentials, a 
longer period of preparation may be helpful. 


Hal Allen’s 
Period 
delineation 


Below are the delineations of Hal Allen’s three Periods along 
with the description of his transition years. (We’re assuming 
here that Hal’s birthname is also his current name—that there 
are no additional energies from new names.) Each portion of 
the delineation is written in the present tense. In an actual 
delineation, of course, you would usually be discussing the cur¬ 
rent Period only. 

Hal Allen’s calculation sheet (Figure 28-2 on page 493) and 
organization sheet (Figure 28-3 on page 494) are repeated from 
Chapter 21 of Volume 1. We’ll need to refer to these sheets in 
collecting the data on Hal’s potentials. 


5 FIRST PERIOD 

1941-1972 (birth to the end of the year in which Hal turned 
31). 

THE DATA: 

A. 5 First Period on a 5 Life Path. 

B. No karmic Period. 

C. 14/5 Karmic Debt on Life Path 

5 Life Path/5 sub-element 

6 Expression and 6 Modified Karmic Lesson conflicting 
with 5 energy 

D. Prepare for 3 Second Period. 

The body of the paragraph is from the general 5 Period descrip¬ 
tion and the 5 First Period description on Chart 14. 

As a child and young adult, you probably find 
yourself in a constantly changing environment 
with much uncertainty and travel. This is probably 



CHAPTER 28: THE LIFE PATH PERIODS 


493 


May 12, 1941 

5 +i^3y + 6 



5- 3 = 2 I 

6- 3 = 3 | 

3-2 = 1 CHALLENGE | 


2_+ (19) 1 + 6 = ® | 


1 1 

9 9 1 

1 5 


i| 

HARLAN 

WILLIAM 

ALLEN 


£ 

8 93 5 

5 33 4 

33 5 


$ 

(25) 7 + 

(15) 6 + 11 =24 

= 6 SECRET SELF 

i 

8 19315 

5933914 

1 3355 


d. 

(27) 9 + 

four l’s 
no 2 •*- 
five 3’s 
one 4 
four 5’s 

(34) 7 + 

■ (17) 8 = 24 = 


jk 

PHYSICAL 

WME 

3-Average 

j. 

no 6 ^ 

MENTAL 

HALANLLAALLN 

12-Strong 


no 7 4_ 
one 8 
three 9’s 

. 1 1 . p. 

EMOTIONAL 

RII 

3-Average 


INTUITIVE 


O-Weak 



MATURITY NUMBER = 5 + 6 = 11/2 


Figure 28-2 i 

Calculation Sheet: 

Hal Allen 5 


a difficult atmosphere for you or any young per¬ 
son because of the continual feeling of restless¬ 
ness, possibly accentuated by a fluctuating money 
supply. It may seem like a good environment in 
which to learn the exhilaration of the constructive 
use of freedom f5 Lije Path). At this early stage in 
your life, though, your tendencies to be erratic and 
proceed with little sense of accomplishment ( 14/5 
Karmic Debt and 5-5), your problem with excessive 






494 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 



physical appetites ( 14/5 Karmic Debt and 5-5), your 
difficulty in learning the lesson of change: to 
begin, nurture, experience and detach ( 14/5 Karmic 
Debt) — all are likely to be emphasized in this en¬ 
vironment. Although you're capable of carrying 
much responsibility [6 Expression, 6Modified Karmic 
Lesson ), you're not likely to encounter much of it 
at this time. 




































CHAPTER 28: THE LIFE PATH PERIODS 


495 


From 1963 through 1972 (age 22-31), the last ten years of the 
First Period, I’d add the following in preparation for the next 
Period. Usually, the next Period would only he mentioned 
within four or five years of the end of the current Period, but, 
because of the nature of the Second Period, the preparation is 
likely to take longer. 

You're going to spend most of your productive 
years in a rather permissive atmosphere and you're 
likely to get more out of those years if you learn to 
curb your appetites and your restless nature. Fail¬ 
ure to make headway in these important areas in 
the next few years may limit your pleasures and 
accomplishments later. ( See the second paragraph of 
the 3 Second Period on Chart 14.) 


From 1970 through 1972 (age 29-31), the 3 Second Period is felt 
to a limited degree. 

You're likely to feel somewhat more interest in 
friendships, artistic pursuits and verbal activities 
now than you did previously. ( See the 3 Second 
Period description on Chart 14). 


3 SECOND PERIOD 

1973-1999 (beginning of year in which Hal turned 32 to end of 
year in which Hal turned 58) 

THE DATA: 

A. 3 Second Period on a 5 Life Path. 

B. No karmic period. 

C. 3 Birthday (Birthday always same as Second Period) 

Five 3’s Intensity Point 

3 Prime Intensifier 

D. Prepare for 6 Third Period. 

The body of the paragraph below is from the general 3 Period 
description and the 3 Second Period description on Chart 14. 

If you've made some headway in controling your 
restless nature and in using freedom constructively (5 
Life Path), this may well be a time of delight and 
pleasure. There's likely to be much social life and 



496 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINE A TION 


entertainment along with artistic pursuits and ver¬ 
bal activities such as acting or writing. With your 
adaptability and verve (5 Life Path), social skills, 
imagination, creative talents and verbal abilities (3 
Birthday, five 3’s Intensity Point, 3 Prime Intensified, 
you may even find recognition and financial gain. 
There's likely to be much activity and possibly 
travel, but there's apt to be less of the frenetic 
quality of your younger years. You may still have 
some tendency to waste your energies or to act capri¬ 
ciously or self-indulgently (3 Birthday, five 3 s Inten¬ 
sity Point). Unless these tendencies are controlled, 
there's likely to be frustration and loss of time and 
direction. 


From 1973 through 1975 (age 32-34), the 5 First Period is 
fading out. 

You may notice, although there's still lots of ac¬ 
tivity in your life, that the erratic quality seems to 
be lessening. ( See the 5 First Period description on 
Chart 14). 


From 1990 through 1999 (age 49-58), the last ten years of the 
Second Period, I’d add the following in preparation for the 6 
Third Period. This, again, is a long period of preparation, but 
the sharp contrast between the middle and last Periods war¬ 
rants it. 

In the later years of your life, you may have substan¬ 
tial responsibilities which are likely to feel par¬ 
ticularly limiting after the freedom you've enjoyed 
until then. Begin to consider how to deal with your 
restlessness in a restricted environment, how to ex¬ 
press freedom constructively despite the limitations. 
(See the 6 Third Period description on Chart 14.) 


From 1997 through 1999 (age 56-58), the 6 Third Period is felt 
to a limited degree: 

There may be more responsibility in your life now 




CHAPTER 28: THE LIFE PATH PERIODS 


4!) 7 


than previously, or you may become aware of 
some responsibilities that may be yours in the next 
few years. You may find the pace of activity begin¬ 
ning to slow. ( See the 6 Third Period description on 
Chart 14.) 


6 THIRD PERIOD 

2000 on (beginning of year in which Hal turns 59, and on) 
THE DATA: 

A. 6 Third Period on a 5 Life Path. 

B. No karmic Period. 

C. 6 Expression 

6 Modified Karmic Lesson 
5 Life Path conflicting with 6 energy 

D. This is last Period, no preparation required for another 
Period. 


The body of the paragraph below is from the general 6 Period 
description and the 6 Third Period description in Chart 14. 

In these later years of your life, there's a possibili¬ 
ty of a supportive environment centered around 
home and family, an atmosphere of love and car¬ 
ing. With yourYestless nature, you may not be able 
to take full advantage of the opportunities and, in¬ 
stead, may feel restricted and tied down ( conflict 
with the 5 Life Path). There are likely to be respon¬ 
sibilities here, but you have substantial capabili¬ 
ties in that direction (6 Expression, 6 Modified Kar¬ 
mic Lesson). After the relatively loose environment 
of your early and middle years, this far more struc¬ 
tured situation may be much less to your liking. 


From 2000 through 2002 (age 59-61), the 3 Second Period is 
fading out. 

You may feel a slowdown in the pace of activities 
now. There's likely to be a quieter social life than 
previously. ( See the 3 Second Period description on 
Chart 14.) 





PART i': PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


4 iJfi 


For Hal, as for most of us, the ability to pursue the lesson of 
his Life Path in his First Period will strongly affect his dealings 
in the Second Period. And, similarly, his mastery (or lack of 
mastery) of the lesson in the first and middle Periods will cer¬ 
tainly mark his last. The numerologist has no way of knowing 
when (or even if) the lesson is learned, so the Period delineation 
must be rendered broadly to cover the many possibilities. 




CHAPTER 29; THE PINNACLES 


499 


CHAPTER 29 


LONG TERM CYCLES, PART 2: 

THE PINNACLES 

THE FOUR PINNACLES DESCRIBE THE GENERAL IN¬ 
FLUENCES DURING EACH OF THE FOUR PINNACLE 
PHASES OF THE LIFE. The Pinnacles have no direct relation 
to the Life Path like the Periods, but they are, nevertheless, im¬ 
portant in the description of the tone of the individual’s 
background. 

The First Pinnacle, or Developmental Pinnacle, covers youth 
and young adulthood. It describes some of the influences 
strongly affecting the young person’s development. It’s par¬ 
ticularly important to build a foundation here in the First Pin¬ 
nacle for the Second and Third Pinnacles. The First Pinnacle, 
like the First Period, often appears limiting. 

The Second and Third Pinnacles are two shorter phases (nine 
years each) which together span the important middle years. 
Both are involved with what is often the most productive 
period of the life, so they may be thought of as Productive Pin¬ 
nacles A and B. The influences described are very important 
and usually overshadow the influences of the concurrent 
Period. The Third Pinnacle, more often than not, is more ex¬ 
pressive and more productive than the Second, so that it may 
be well to devote a good deal of energy in the Second Pinnacle 
to preparation for the Third. A bit of attention should be given 
in the Third Pinnacle to preparation for the Fourth. 

The Fourth Pinnacle, or Integrative Pinnacle, is similar to the 
Integrative Period in covering the later years of life. The “feel” 
of this last Pinnacle is heavily dependent on the growth and 


Definition 


First 

Pinnacle 


Second 

and 

Third 

Pinnacles 


Fourth 

Pinnacle 



500 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


Calculation 


Time span 


Time 

Span 

Chart 


satisfactions of the productive period of life, the previous two 
Pinnacles; The influences of the period affect the subject about 
as much as the satisfied (or dissatisfied) sense of development he 
brings to the start of the Pinnacle. 


The Pinnacles are found by simple addition. The sum is re¬ 
duced to a single digit or master number. 

THE FIRST PINNACLE IS THE SUM OF THE MONTH 
AND DAY SUB-ELEMENTS OF THE LIFE PATH. 

THE SECOND PINNACLE IS THE SUM OF THE DAY AND 
YEAR SUB-ELEMENTS OF THE LIFE PATH. 

THE THIRD PINNACLE IS THE SUM OF THE FIRST AND 
SECOND PINNACLES. 

THE FOURTH PINNACLE IS THE SUM OF THE MONTH 
AND YEAR SUB-ELEMENTS OF THE LIFE PATH. 


The First Pinnacle starts at birth. To determine the subject’s 
age at the end of the First Pinnacle, subtract the Life Path from 
36. (If the Life Path is a master number, reduce it to a single 
digit before subtracting.) The First Pinnacle ends on December 
31 of the year in which the subject reaches the determined age. 

The Second Pinnacle starts on January 1 of the following 
year and lasts nine years. 

The Third Pinnacle starts on January 1 of the year after the 
Second Pinnacle ends and lasts nine years. 

The Fourth Pinnacle starts on January 1 of the year after the 
Third Pinnacle ends and continues the rest of the life. 


We can sum this up in a simple chart: 


TIME SPAN OF PINNACLES 


Life 

Path 

First 

Pinnacle 

Second 

Pinnacle 

Third 

Pinnacle 

Fourth 

Pinnacle 


age: 

age: 

age: 

age: 

1 

0-35 

36-44 

45-53 

54 on 

2 or 11/2 

0-34 

35-43 

44-52 

53 on 

3 

0-33 

34-42 

43-51 

52 on 

4 or 22/4 

0-32 

33-41 

42-50 

51 on 

5 

0-31 

32-40 

41-49 

50 on 

6 

0-30 

31-39 

40-48 

49 on 

7 

0-29 

30-38 

39-47 

48 on 

8 

0-28 

29-37 

38-46 

47 on 

9 

0-27 

28-36 

37-45 

46 on 




CHAPTER 29: THE PINNACLES 


501 


The transition between Pinnacles tends to be relatively ab¬ 
rupt. The influence of a new Pinnacle may be felt three to six 
months before the completion of the existing Pinnacle, but 
usually in a substantially reduced form. When a Pinnacle ends, 
its influence rarely lingers more than a month or so. The sud¬ 
den changes that sometimes occur in a life—the gain or loss of 
interest in a job, an avocation or a relation—may sometimes be 
due to the sharp change of Pinnacles. 


Lenore was born on July 

July 13, 1963 

7 v4/ 1 = 

First = month 
Pinnacle 

The 11/2 notation expresses a Pinnacle with 
a master number. 

The First Pinnacle is from birth to age 33 
(from the chart of the Time Span of Pin¬ 
nacles, page 500). 


13, 1963. 



sub-element + day sub-element 
7 + 4 11/2 


Second 

= day sub-element 

+ 

year sub-element 

Pinnacle 

4 

+ 

1 


Jhe Second Pinnacle is 

from age 34 to 42. 

Third 

= First Pinnacle 


Second Pinnacle 

Pinnacle 

11 

+ 

5 = 1' 


The 16/7 notation expresses a karmic Pinnacle. 
The Third Pinnacle is from age 43 to 51. 

Fourth = month sub-element + year sub-element 
Pinnacle 7 + 1 = 8 

The Fourth Pinnacle is from age 52 on. 

A summary of Lenore’s Pinnacles: 


11/2 

First Pinnacle 

( 0-33) 

5 

Second Pinnacle 

(34-42) 

16/7 

Third Pinnacle 

(43-51) 

8 

Fourth Pinnacle 

(52 on) 


Transition 

between 

Pinnacles 


Example 




Example: 
Hal Allen’s 
calculation 


Adding the 
Pinnacle data 
to Hal Allen’s 
progressed 
ch^rt 

Chart 15: 
Pinnacles 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


Using calculations similar to the example just shown and the 
chart of the Time Span of Pinnacles, page 500, Hal Allen’s Pin¬ 
nacles would be summarized as follows: 

8 First Pinnacle ( 0-31) 

9 Second Pinnacle (32-40) 

8 Third Pinnacle (41-49) 

11/2 Fourth Pinnacle (50 on) 

Hal’s 8 First Pinnacle starts at birth in 1941 and continues to 
the end of 1972 (the year in which Hal turns 31). 

Hal’s 9 Second Pinnacle starts at the beginning of 1973 (the 
year in which Hal turns 32) and continues to the end of 1981 
(the year in which Hal turns 40). 

Hal’s 8 Third Pinnacle starts at the beginning of 1982 (the 
year in which Hal turns 41) and continues to the end of 1990 
(the year in which Hal turns 49). 

Hal’s 11/2 Fourth Pinnacle starts at the beginning of 1991 
(the year in which Hal turns 50) and continues the rest of his 
life. 

We’ll transfer this information to the progressed chart (Fig¬ 
ure 29-1 on page 503) and again, as we did with the Periods, in¬ 
dicate the start of new Pinnacles with emphasized horizontal 
lines. Since the transitions are relatively abrupt, there is no 
need to note them on the progressed chart. 


chart 15: the pinnacles, on page 710, describes the four 
different Pinnacles for each of the single digits and master 
numbers. In general terms, the First Pinnacle usually displays 
limiting influences, the Second and Third Pinnacles usually 
produce influences and opportunities for expansion, and the 
Fourth Pinnacle sometimes describes influences supportive of 
reflection and retirement, sometimes influences supportive of 
bustling activity. 

The strong negative influence of the karmic number—19/1, 
13/4, 14/5, 16/7 —is described in the bottom row of the chart. 
The negative impact would strongly modify the description of 
the particular Pinnacle. A 16/7 Third Pinnacle, for example, 
would be described by combining the general description of the 
7 Pinnacle from the top row of the chart, the description of the 
7 Third Pinnacle from the third row of the chart, and the 
description of the 16/7 karmic Pinnacle from the bottom row of 
the chart. The First, Second, Third or Fourth Pinnacles may, 
at times, each be a karmic Pinnacle. 




CHAPTER 29: THE PINNACLES 


503 


HARLAN WILLIAM ALLEN 
MAY 12, 1941 


Age 

Medium Term 

Year 

Long Term 

ft ITi'fc'f 

Transits 

Essence 

Personal 

Year 

Universal 

Year 

Period 

Pinnacle 



1941 


8 

0 


_ 






1942 


8 

1 


_ 

_ 

_ 




1943 


ft m 


Pinnacle 

2 







_ - 

1Q44 


8_ 

i - 

— __ 

_ 

_ 






— n — 


L 



— ^ 

28 






29 






30 






31 






32 






33 






34 






35 






36 






37 






38 






39 






40 






41 






42 






43 






44 






45 






46 






47 






48 






49 






50 






51 




r . 

* ■ 

52 

-m 

_ 


. _ 

_ _ 


"TMT 


1970 


1971 


1972 


1973 


1974 


1975 


1976 


1977 


1978 


1979 


1980 


1981 


1982 


1983 


1984 


1985 


1986 


1987 


1988 


1989 


1990 


1991 


1992 


1993 


jaai_I 


11/2 


11/2 


11 / 2 - 


M12J 


i—62- 





— "'1 


_ 

■~2flo3r' 


Tnr 

63 




_ 




2005 


11/2 

64 

_ 

i 

_ 

_ 




2006 


11/2 

65 

_ 

_, 

_ 

___ 




2007 


11/2 

66 


_ 

_ 

_ 




2008 


JJi2- 


L— 


L—J 



^ ^ 



Start of 
Second 
Pinnacle 

9 Second 
Pinnacle 


Start of 

Third 

Pinnacle 

8 Third 
Pinnacle 


Start of 
Fourth 
Pinnacle 

11/2 Fourth 
Pinnacle 


Figure 29-1 
Progressed Chart 
with Pinnacles: 
Hal Allen 


A delineation of any Pinnacle includes the following: 

A. The general description of the influences of the environ¬ 
ment along with the specific description of the First, Second, 
Third or Fourth Pinnacle (from chart 15: the pinnacles). 

With a 22 Pinnacle, describe both the 22 and 4 Pinnacles, 
and with the 11, describe both the 11 and 2. The influences 
of both the higher and lower levels of the master number 


Delineation 

description 




504 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


would probably be present, subject to the individual’s 
desire or ability to use them. 

B. The karmic Pinnacle description, from the bottom row of 
CHART 15: THE pinnacles, if applicable. The negative 
potential, along with suggestions for overcoming the ob¬ 
stacles, should be included. 

C. The subject’s potentials—both from the birth name and 
current name(s), as well as the birthdate. A knowledge of 
the subject’s potentials provides insight into the individual’s 
ability to operate with the current influences. The core 
elements, Karmic Debts and Karmic Lessons may be of im¬ 
portance, along with any other strong modifiers which flow 
or conflict with the influences. Usually, the elements or 
modifiers with a number matching the Pinnacle number 
are of particular import. 

D. Preparation for the next Pinnacle. 

The First Pinnacle should prepare for the Second and 
Third. 

The Second should prepare strongly for the Third. 

The Third should prepare sparingly for the Fourth. 

The preparation is important in the last ten years or so of 
the First Pinnacle, all of the Second, the last two or three 
years of the Third. 


Hal Allen’s Following are the delineations for Hal Allen’s four Pinnacles. 

Pinnacle (We’re assuming here that Hal’s birthname is also his current 
delineation name —that there are no additional energies from new names). 

The transitions are not mentioned, but, in a reading for the ap¬ 
propriate year they should be touched on briefly. Each portion 
of the delineation is written in the present tense. In an actual 
delineation, of course, you would usually be discussing the cur¬ 
rent Pinnacle only. For data relating to Hal’s potentials, consult 
his calculation sheet and organization sheet shown on pages 493 
and 494 of Chapter 28. 


8 FIRST PINNACLE 

1941-1972 (birth to the end of the year in which Hal turned 
31). 

THE DATA: 

A-. 8 First Pinnacle. 

B. No karmic Pinnacle. 



CHAPTER 29: THE PINNACLES 


C. No 8 energy. Little energy devoted to business affairs except 

four l’s Intensity Point to some extent. 

D. Prepare for 9 Second Pinnacle and 8 Third Pinnacle in last 

ten years of this Pinnacle. 

The body of the paragraph below is from the general 8 Pin¬ 
nacle description and the 8 First Pinnacle description on Chart 
15. 

As a child and young adult, you're likely to find 
yourself in an environment with emphasis on busi¬ 
ness and commercial activity, organizational and 
managerial abilities, pragmatic approaches. You 
may be involved in business activity at an early 
age, but, whatever your age, you're likely to feel 
restricted unless you can find a situation making 
use of your cleverness and adaptability (5 Life 
Path). Your restless nature ( 14/5 Karmic Debt, 5-5 ) 
will probably be limited and your free-wheeling 
approach and need for constantly changing stim¬ 
uli ( 1415 Karmic Debt, 5*5) is likely to be repressed, 
causing you much resentment. You probably ex¬ 
hibit little of the logical, rational approach or 
balanced judgment about people and finances 
which would allow you to make the most of your 
opportunities (no 8 energy). 


From 1963 through 1972 (age 22-31), the last ten years of the 
First Pinnacle, I’d add the following in preparation for the 
middle Pinnacles. 

In Preparation for the 9 Second Pinnacle: 

Become aware of your loving, giving side, your 
sympathetic, compassionate self which gives with¬ 
out need for reward (6 Expression and 9 Soul Urge). 
You may not have much need for this giving side 
now, but, when you do, give as freely as you can 
and sense the deep satisfaction you receive. You 
may find more need for tolerance from ages 32 to 
40. (See the general description of the 9 Pinnacle on 
Chart 15). 

In preparation for the - 8 Third Pinnacle: 

Between ages 41 and 49, you'll probably be in an 









506 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


environment very similar to the one you're in now. 
I doubt that this current period is especially com¬ 
fortable or satisfying, but, at least become aware 
of the situations where your capabilities fit in ef¬ 
fectively in the business world. Keep these situa¬ 
tions in mind for the future. With the experience 
and maturity that comes with time, you may be 
able to take better advantage of the commercial 
opportunities later. [See the general description of the 
8 Pinnacle on Chart 15.) 


9 SECOND PINNACLE 

1973-1981 (year, in which Hal turns 32 to year in which Hal 

turns 40). 

THE DATA: 

A. 9 Second Pinnacle. 

B. No karmic Pinnacle. 

C. 9 Soul Urge, 9 Growth Number 

6 Expression, 6 Modified Karmic Lesson. 

D. Prepare strongly for 8 Third Pinnacle during the entire Sec¬ 

ond Pinnacle. 

The body of the paragraph below is from, the general 9 Pin¬ 
nacle description and the 9 Second Pinnacle description on 

Chart 15. 

There's apt to be much drama and high emotion in 
your life. There are probably many times when 
you need to show tolerance and compassion as 
you avail yourself of opportunities related to 
humanistic, philanthropic or artistic endeavors. 
You may be asked to be friendly or loving with lit¬ 
tle expectation of any return. Although there is a 
strong side of you that is loving and giving and 
capable of foregoing your own needs (9 Soul Urge, 
6 Expression), that side is probably at odds with the 
restless side of your nature. If you can manage to 
concentrate on your ability to give, you may sub¬ 
stantially develop your natural potential in that 
area and lead to considerable growth (9 Growth 
Number). Some highly emotional endeavor—a love 
affair or a close personal relationship —is likely to 




CHAPTER 29: THE PINNACLES 


507 


be completed during this time. You may not even 
want the completion, but it's likely to prove a step¬ 
ping stone to freedom. Your responsibilities and 
accomplishments will depend on your ability to 
respond to the humanistic opportunities that 
beckon. 


In preparation for the 8 Third Pinnacle, add the following dur¬ 
ing the entire 9 Second Pinnacle. See the general description of 
the 8 Pinnacle on Chart 15. 

Between ages 41 and 49, you're likely to be in a 
business or commercial environment similar to 
what you may have experienced before your 32nd 
birthday. 1 don't think there's much you can do 
now in preparation for this coming period except 
keep aware of your abilities — your creative ap¬ 
proach (5 Life Path) as well as your humanistic 
leanings (9 Soul Urge, 6 Expression). See if you can 
discern a place for these abilities later on when the 
opportunities probably will primarily emphasize 
business matters and organizaiton. 


8 THIRD PINNACLE 

1982-1990 (year in which Hal turns 41 to year in which Hal 
turns 49) 

THE DATA: 

A. 8 Third Pinnacle. 

B. No karmic Pinnacle. 

C. No 8 energy. Little energy devoted to business affairs except 

four Ts Intensity Point to some extent. 

Much 5 energy conflicting with the influences. 

D. Prepare sparingly for 11/2 Fourth Pinnacle the last two or 

three years of the Third. 

The body of the paragraph below is from the general 8 Pin¬ 
nacle description and the 8 Third Pinnacle description on 
Chart 15. 

Here, as in your younger years, you're in a period 
emphasizing business and commercial activity, or¬ 
ganizational and management abilities. When you 






508 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


were in a similar environment previously, I suspect 
that, with your youthful ideas, you felt limited and 
unable to use the free-wheeling approach which 
you enjoyed. By now, though, if you've learned to 
use freedom constructively (5 Life Path), if you've 
learned to curb your physical appetites ( 14/5 Kar¬ 
mic Lesson and 5-5), if you've learned something of 
the lesson of change: to begin, nurture, experience 
and detach ( 14/5 Karmic Lesson), you may be able 
to use some of the business opportunities to your 
advantage. If you can find a situation which 
allows you to use your creative, imaginative ways 
(5 Life Path), you may achieve success and recogni¬ 
tion. 


In preparation for the 11/2 Fourth Pinnacle, add the following 
from ages 47 through 49: (From the general description of the 2 
Pinnacle and the description of the 2 Fourth Pinnacle on Chart 
15. The influence of the 11 Fourth Pinnacle is relatively weak 
and is not mentioned here). 

From age 50 on, you'll find that your sensitivity 
and receptivity are likely to be more important 
than your business acumen. At the present time, 
you may not find too many opportunities to pro¬ 
mote harmony, but when you do, be prepared to 
give of yourself and to note the satisfaction you 
receive. 


11/2 FOURTH PINNACLE 

1991 on (year in which Hal turns 50, and on) 

THE DATA: 

A. 11/2 Fourth Pinnacle. 

B. No karmic Pinnacle. 

C. 11/2 Maturity Number, 2 Karmic Lesson, related 6 and 9 

energies. 

D. This is the last Pinnacle, no preparation for next Pinnacle. 

The paragraph below is from the general description of the 11 
Pinnacle on Chart 15. The influence of the 11 Fourth Pinnacle 
is relatively weak since the only 11 energy comes from the 11/2 
Maturity Number. 


CHAPTER 29: THE PINNACLES 


At this time, you may find there's emphasis on 
philosophic, religious or metaphysical studies. I 
doubt that you'll have much desire to use these 
kinds of opportunities. You may feel a heightened 
awareness, perhaps a bit more nervous tension 
than previously. 

The body of the paragraph below is from the general 2 Pin¬ 
nacle description and the 2 Fourth Pinnacle description on 

Chart 15. 

At the same time, you're apt to find that your sen¬ 
sitivity and receptivity are of special importance 
now (6 Expression, 9 Soul Urge). You may have 
developed your ability to be tactful, diplomatic 
and considerate (2 Karmic Lesson) and that may be 
helpful now. Your ability to promote harmony and 
to be friendly and affectionate are likely to be 
much appreciated (6 Expression, 9 Soul Urge). You 
may feel a little restless and limited in this en¬ 
vironment (5 Life Path, 14/5 Karmic debt, 5-5), but 
there is a strong giving side of you that may find 
satisfaction, although not as much excitement as 
you would prefer (6 Expression, 9 Soul Urge). If you 
want, a pleasant full or partial retirement time is 
probably possible. 


For Hal, the First and Third Pinnacles present opportunities 
for which he has little inherent energy. The influences of the 
Second and Fourth Pinnacles give him more possibilities, but 
never deal directly with his strongest energy, the 5 potential. 
Being aware of the Pinnacle’s influences, even if one’s own 
energies are not directly called into play, can be of considerable 
importance. If Hal, for instance, can learn to use his 5 energy 
to meet the influences of the First and Third 8 Pinnacles, he 
can substantially assist his growth. An awareness of the Pin¬ 
nacles can help everyone in promoting their own development. 
















CHAPTER 30: LONG TERM CYCLES: SYNTHESIS 


511 


CHAPTER 30 

LONG TERM CYCLES, PART 3: 
THE SYNTHESIS 


By combining the descriptions of the Period and Pinnacle 
operating at any given time in a subject’s life, we receive a pic¬ 
ture of the general influences and, often, particular emphases. 
In a delineation, I usually describe the current long term 
cycles, then discuss any Period or Pinnacle which begins 
operating within the next three or four years, and finally 
describe any previous Period or Pinnacle which ended within 
the last few years. 


We have to determine the relative importance of the 
background cycles so that the importance is reflected in the 
synthesis: 

IF ONE OF THE LONG TERM CYCLES CLEARLY HAS 
MORE OF THE SUBJECT’S ENERGY AVAILABLE THAN 
THE OTHER, THAT CYCLE’S INFLUENCES TEND TO 
DOMINATE THAT PHASE. As an example, Hal Allen’s 5 
First Period, with energy from Hal’s 5 Life Path, 14/5 Karmic 
Debt and 5 Life Path/5 sub-element, receives a good deal of 
energy, even though a substantial portion is negative energy. 
There’s virtually no energy related to Hal’s 8 First Pinnacle 
and, in addition, the 5 energy is heavily conflicted with the 8 
influences. When these two cycles are operating, the influence 
of the 5 First Period is likely to dominate. The 8 influences need 
be mentioned only in passing. 

IF SIMILAR LEVELS OF ENERGY ARE AVAILABLE 
IN A CONCURRENT PERIOD AND PINNACLE, THE 


Relative 
importance 
of the 
concurrent 
Period and 
Pinnacle 





512 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


... - ,.r 

Commentary 


STRONGER MODIFIER NUMBER TENDS TO DOMINATE 
THAT PHASE. 

1, 4, 5, 8, and 22 tend to be strong. 

3, 6, and 9 tend to be average. 

2, 7, and 11 tend to be weak. 

The influence of a 4 Period, for instance, would tend to 
dominate the influences of a 2 Pinnacle if their energy levels 
were similar. Or, a 6 Pinnacle would tend to dominate a 7 
Period. 

IF SIMILAR LEVELS OF ENERGY ARE AVAILABLE IN 
A CONCURRENT PERIOD AND PINNACLE: 

The First Period tends to be 

more influential than the First Pinnacle, 
less influential than the Second Pinnacle. 

The Second Period tends to be 

more influential than the First Pinnacle, 
less influential than the Second Pinncle, 
less influential than the Third Pinnacle, 
more influential than the Fourth Pinnacle. 

The Third Period tends to be 

less influential than the Third Pinnacle, 
more influential than the Fourth Pinnacle. 


If a concurrent Period and Pinnacle have the same num¬ 
ber, it emphasizes the particular influence of that number. If 
the subject is lucky enough to have positive energy to take ad¬ 
vantage of the emphasized opportunities, he may find that this 
time in the life is of particular importance. 

If a karmic Period and karmic Pinnacles occur at the same 
time, this is likely to be a significantly difficult time of the life. 
If the same karmic number is involved in both cycles, the nega¬ 
tive impact is likely to be strong. 

The first few years of a new Period or Pinnacle are especially 
significant as the subject becomes acclimatized to the different 
direction and learns how best to use the new influences. If the 
Period and Pinnacle change at the same time, the transition has 
increased importance because all of the background influences 
in the individual’s life are shifting simultaneously. The subject 
should be given information about this change as much as five 
years before the shift so that he can prepare adequately. 



CHAPTER 30: LONG TERM CYCLES: SYNTHESIS 


513 


Looking at Hal Allen’s progressed chart (Figure 30-1 on page 
514), we find five separate phases of his life: five different com¬ 
binations of Periods and Pinnacles. 


Hal Allen’s 

progressed 

chart 


Following is the synthesis of the long term cycles for each of 
Hal’s five phases. We’ll analyze all the phases and give a com¬ 
plete delineation of the first two. By describing Hal’s back¬ 
ground influences at twelve year intervals starting at age 20, all 
the phases will be covered. You’ll get a good idea of how the 
cycles are blended as well as an awareness of the probable ebb 
and flow of Hal’s life. 


Synthesis 
of Hal Allen’s 
long term 
cycles 


1961: AGE 20 

5 First Period on a 5 Life Path (birth-age 31) 

8 First Pinnacle (birth-age 31) 

ANALYSIS: 

There’s a lot of 5 energy available, little 8 energy. The in¬ 
fluences of the 5 First Period are likely to dominate this phase. 

DELINEATION: 

You're probably in a constantly changing environ¬ 
ment with much uncertainty and travel. This is 
likely to ber a difficult atmosphere for you, with its 
continual feeling of restlessness, possibly accen¬ 
tuated by a fluctuating money supply. It may 
seem like a good environment in which to learn 
the exhilaration of the constructive use of free¬ 
dom, but your age works against you. Your tenden¬ 
cies to be erratic and proceed with little sense of 
accomplishment, your problem with excessive 
physical appetites, your difficulty in learning the 
lesson of change: to begin, nurture, experience and 
detach—all are likely to be emphasized in this en¬ 
vironment (5 First Period with 5 Life Path , 14/5 Kar¬ 
mic Debt, 5 Life Path/5 sub-element). 

There's likely to be some emphasis on business 
and commercial activity. You may be working 
now, but the business world is likely to feel restric¬ 
tive and limiting to your free-wheeling nature un- 




514 


PART V.- PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


HARLAN WILLIAM ALLEN 
MAY 12, 1941 


Age 

Medium Term 

Year 

Long 

Term 

Transits 

Essence 

Personal 

Year 

Universal 

Year 

Period 

Pinnacle 

0 








1941 

5 

8 



1942 

5 

8 

1 








1943 

5 

8 

2 

_ 


_J 

— 

- __ 


26 


— 

— 

— 



— 

" 1968" 

5 

8 

27 






28 




-- 1 




1969 

5 

8 

29 

" 


— 

— 




1970 

53 

8 

30 




— 




1971 

53 

8 

31 




— 




1972 

53 

8 



1973 

3s 

9 

32 






33 



I— ™ 

— 




1974 

3s 

9 

34 



— 

— 




1975 

3s 

9 

35 

— 

— 

— 

— 




1976 

3 

9 



— 


, 

_ 

--J 


1977 

3 

9 


- TK5 - 

39 

— 


' 

~ 


-- 


" 1980^ 

—r~ 


40 








1981 

3 

9 



1982 

3 

8 

41 






42 


— 

— 

— 




1983 

3 

8 

43 


_ 



__ 



1984 

-.-L985_ 

3 

3 . 

8 


— 

_ _ __ 

— 



"TS5T- 

T— 

■ 8 — 

4b 






47 


— 

— 

— 




1988 

3 

8 

48 

— 

— 

— 

— 




1989 

3 

8 

49 








1990 

3 

8 



1991 

3 

11/2 

50 






51 _ 

__„ 






— 1 

1992 

3 

11/2 




> 


-5?- 

55 

— 

— 


— 



-- 

I9SB— 

~-3— 

ttit 

56 



“- 





1997 

3e 

11/2 

57 


— 






1998 

36 

11/2 

58 








1999 

36 

11/2 

59 



-- 

—: 




2000 

63 

11/2 

60 

' 



— 




2001 

63 

11/2 

61 


— 






2002 

63 

11/2 

62 








2003 

6 

11/2 

— 

L-—J 



— 




—ano/i 

—fL— 

11/2 


-• 1941-1972 (birth- age 31) 
5 First Period 
8 First Pinnacle 


Simultaneous change of 
Period and Pinnacle 


« 1973-1981 (age 32-40) 
3 Second Period 
9 Second Pinnacle 


«1982-1990 (age 41-49) 
3 Second Period 
8 Third Pinnacle 


♦ 1991-1999 (age 50-58) 
3 Second Period 
11/2 Fourth Pinnacle 


• 2000 on (age 59 on) 

6 Third Period 
11/2 Fourth Pinnacle 


Figure 30-1 
Progressed Chart 
with Long Term Cycles: 
Hal Allen 






CHAPTER 30: LONG TERM CYCLES: SYNTHESIS 


515 


less you find just the right position (8 First Pinnacle 
with no 8 energy). 

(With twelve years to go to the new Period and Pin¬ 
nacle, there is no mention of preparation and no con¬ 
cern with transitions.) 


1973: AGE 32 

Start of 3 Second Period on a 5 Life Path (age 32-58) 

Start of 9 Second Pinnacle (age 32-40) 

ANALYSIS: 

There’s a good deal of 9 energy available along with related 6 
energy. There’s some 3 energy present. The influences of the 9 
Second Pinnacle are likely to dominate this phase. (Even if 
there were similar levels of 3 energy and 9 energy available, the 
Second Pinacle tends to be more influential than the First 
Period.) 

DELINEATION: 

This year is likely to have special importance. The 
influences which have been with you since birth 
— the restlessness and the emphasis on busi¬ 
ness—are making way now for other influences, 
leading to an environment emphasizing social, ar¬ 
tistic arid' Humanistic values ( simultaneous start of 
new Period and new Pinnacle). 

There's apt to be much drama and high emotion at 
this time. There are probably many times when 
you need to show tolerance and compassion as 
you avail yourself of opportunities related to hu¬ 
manistic, philanthropic or artistic endeavors. You 
may be asked to be friendly or loving with little 
expectation of any return. After your free-wheel¬ 
ing years, you will probably now be expected to 
concentrate on your ability to give to others. De¬ 
velopment of your giving abilities will lead to 
considerable growth. Some highly emotional en¬ 
deavor—a love affair or a close personal rela¬ 
tion—is likely to end at this time or in the next few 
years, although this may not be what you necessar¬ 
ily want. The completion, though, may prove a 





516 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


stepping stone to freedom (9 Second Pinnacle with 9 
Soul Urge, 9 Growth Number, 6 Expression, 6 Modified 
Karmic Lesson ). 

You may find opportunities now for much social 
life, travel, artistic pursuits and verbal activities 
such as acting or writing. There's potential here for 
pleasure and achievement. You may lose time and 
direction if you waste your energies or act capri¬ 
ciously or self-indulgently (3 Second Period with 3 
Birthday, five 3’s Intensity Point, 3 Prime Intensifier). 

Stay aware of your abilities—your creative ap¬ 
proach and your humanistic leanings. Consider 
where you can use these abilities in the relatively 
ordered business world you'll probably be in from 
age 41 through 49 (preparation for the 8 Third Pin¬ 
nacle with no 8 energy). 

You may notice, although there's still lots of activi¬ 
ty, that the erratic quality of your early years 
seems to be lessening (5 First Period fading out). 


1985: AGE 44 

3 Second Period on a 5 Life Path (age 32-58) 

8 Third Pinnacle (age 41-49) 

ANALYSIS: 

There’s some 3 energy available (3 Birthday, five 3’s Intensity 
Point, 3 Prime Intensifier), but no 8 energy. The influences of 
the Second Period are likely to dominate this phase. (At age 32, 
our last example, the 3 Second Period was weak compared to 
the concurrent 9 Pinnacle, but now, the 3 energy can come into 
its own. Although the 3 Second Period runs for 27 years, only 
between ages 41 and 49 is it likely to be especially effective.) 

IN THE DELINEATION, DISCUSS: 

3 Second Period: the 3 potential is not extremely strong, but 
it’s the strongest energy in this phase. 

8 Third Pinnacle: briefly mentioned. 

(There are no preparations for future Periods or Pinnacles at 
' this time. There are no transitions to be noted, either.) 





CHAPTER 30: LONG TERM CYCLES: SYNTHESIS 


517 


1997: AGE 56 

3 Second Period on a 5 Life Path (age 32-58) 

11/2 Fourth Pinnacle (age 50 on) 

ANALYSIS: 

There’s some 3 energy available (3 Birthday, jive 3’s Intensity 
Point, 3 Prime Intensified, little 11 energy. (11 Maturity 
Number). There’s some 2 energy (2 Maturity Number, 2 Kar¬ 
mic Lesson ), but a great deal of related 6 and 9 energy (6 Ex¬ 
pression, 6 Modified Karmic Lesson, 9 Soul Urge, 9 Growth 
Number). The influences of the 2 Fourth Pinnacle are likely to 
dominate this phase. (In other contexts, the 6 and 9 energy 
would also be helpful to the 3 energy. In the 3 Period, the em¬ 
phasis on social activity doesn’t really stress the deep feelings of 
the 6 and 9 potential. The 6 and 9 energy, with emphasis on 
creativity, might be of some help with the 3 verbal activities, 
but the lightness of the 3 Period is usually relatively unreceptive 
to the high level artistic emphasis of the 6 and 9.) 

IN THE DELINEATION, DISCUSS: 

2 Fourth Pinnacle: the influences (including the 6 and 9 poten¬ 
tial) are strong. 

3 Second Period: a lesser influence, but certainly there. 

11 Fourth Pinnacle: briefly mentioned. 

Preparation for the 6 Third Period: the 6 Third Period is in 
sharp contrast to the 3 Second Period, but the 2, 6, and 9 
energies associated with the 2 Fourth Pinnacle can help with 
the preparation. > 

Transition to the 6 Third Period: Felt to a limited degree, it 
should be briefly mentioned. 


2009: AGE 68 

6 Third Period on a 5 Life Path (age 59 on) 

11/2 Fourth Pinnacle (age 50 on) 

ANALYSIS: 

2, 6, and 9 energy is available for the 6 Third Period and the 2 
Fourth Pinnacle (2 Maturity Number, 2 Karmic Lesson, 6 Ex¬ 
pression, 6 Modified Karmic Number, 9 Soul Urge, 9 Growth 
Number). Little 11 energy (11 Maturity Number) is available. 
The influences of the 6 Third Period and the 2 Fourth Pinnacle 
are likely to dominate the period. 





518 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


IN THE DELINEATION, DISCUSS: 

6 Third Period: the influences are strong, but there is also con¬ 
flict with the 5 energy. 

2 Fourth Pinnacle: strong influences, too. 

11 Fourth Pinnacle: briefly mentioned. 

(There are, of course, no preparations for future Periods or 
Pinnacles and no transitions to come.) 


Looking at 
all the 
phases of 
the life for 
an overview 


Although it’s much easier to look at only the current Period 
and Pinnacle, I think the importance of looking (even ever so 
quickly) at all the phases cannot be overestimated. Back in 
Chapters 7 and 21 in Volume 1, we discussed the strong conflict 
between Hal’s restless 5 energy and his loving, giving 6-9 
energy. By examining the potential flow of Hal’s entire life, we 
can see that there’s a place for both energies. 

From birth to age 31, Hal is likely to indulge his restless free¬ 
wheeling appetites. 

From 32 to 40, I’d expect a simmering down of the frenetic 
pace with the onset of maturity. A lot of activity still, artistic 
pursuits, social life, more interest in others—a more balanced 
potential possible than in the early years. 

From 41 to 49, a probable transition period. Perhaps an ap¬ 
proach to the business world with a better understanding of his 
creativity, a more mature approach to people. 

From 50 to 58, perhaps with the restlessness in balance, there 
may be a flowering of the loving, responsible, giving Hal. 
There may also be the pleasures of travel, social life, artistic 
pursuits. 

And finally, from 59 on, a loving supportive environment 
with friends and quiet social activities. 

Hal has the possibility of developing from a restless youngster 
to a mature loving man with a creative, free-wheeling bent. 
We can’t be sure what Hal will do with his energies in the dif¬ 
ferent periods of his life, but as numerologists, we can guide 
him to the most positive use of his energies with the various in¬ 
fluences present. 


Most lives have a sense of flow and development similar to 
Hal’s—a relatively clear direction mapped by the Periods and 
Pinnacles. Use these important tools—the indicators of the 
background life influences. 




CHAPTER 31: THE PERSONAL YEAR, THE EPICYCLE 


519 


CHAPTER 31 


MEDIUM TERM CYCLES, PART 1: 
THE UNIVERSAL YEAR 
THE PERSONAL YEAR 
THE EPICYCLE 


While the long term cycles set the general tone for extended 
periods, the medium term cycles indicate influences, ap¬ 
proaches and events for a much shorter span of time. There are 
from five to seven medium term cycles in a person’s life, each 
lasting from one to mine years. (Strictly speaking, an Essence 
may last more than nine years, but this is a rare occurrence.) 
The cumulative effect of these cycles usually shifts at least a 
portion of the influences, approaches and events at almost 
every birthday as well as at the beginning of each year. The 
medium term cycles are more important to the individual than 
the more diffused long term cycles or the more concentrated 
short term cycles. A careful reading of these medium term 
cycles provides vital information allowing preparations for or 
defense against the probable influences and events to come. 


THE UNIVERSAL YEAR IS A MEDIUM TERM CYCLE 
DESCRIBING THE GENERAL YEARLY TREND OF 
WORLD INFLUENCES. The general influences in the world 
are substantially modified by the energy put forth by the 
earth’s population. Although the trend of the influence can be 
indicated, the direction of the influence plus the activated 


Definition 
of the 
Universal 
Year 





520 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


Calculation 
of the 
Universal 
Year 


Time span 
and 

transitions of 
the Universal 
Year 

Chart 16: 
Personal 
Year / 
Universal 
Year 


energy cannot be described in advance. I don’t, therefore, find 
the Universal Year particularly useful in discussing the trend of 
the events in the world. Rather, I see it as a kind of broad back¬ 
ground tone for a given year. It’s a cycle of distinctly lesser 
importance. 


At any given time the Universal Year is the same for every¬ 
one. IT’S CALCULATED BY ADDING THE DIGITS OF 
THE YEAR AND REDUCING THE SUM TO A SINGLE 
DIGIT OR MASTER NUMBER. 

Examples: 

1958 = 1 + 9 + 5 + 8 = 23 

= 2 + 3 

= 5 Universal Year 

1960 = 1 + 9 + 6 + 0= 16 

= 1 + 6 

= 7 Universal Year 

Universal Years don’t register karmic in¬ 
fluences. 1960 is a 7 Universal Year—there is 
no 16/7 Universal Year. 

1966 = l + 9 + 6 + 6 = 22/4 Universal Year 

Universal years with master numbers describe 
the influence of both the higher and lower 
levels—a 22/4 year has 22 and 4 influences; an 
11/2 year has 11 and 2 influences. 


The Universal Year lasts one year, from January 1 to Decem¬ 
ber 31. It may be felt to some degree from October through 
December of the previous year. Its fading influence manifests 
slightly through January and February of the following year. 


CHART 16; THE PERSONAL YEAR/THE UNIVERSAL YEAR, On page 

724, describes the different Universal Years in the bottom row. 
The influences, as you can see, are extremely broad. 


The influences described by the Universal Year are impor¬ 
tant in a reading only if the number of the Universal Year (1) is 




CHAPTER 31: THE PERSONAL YEAR, THE EPICYCLE 


521 


the same as the Personal Year, or (2) is in sharp conflict with 
the Personal Year. If the two are the same, we would expect 
that the individual’s approach would feel in harmony with 
world influences, increasing the possibility of productive 
development. If, instead, the two are in conflict, the individual 
is likely to feel some resistance as he uses his approach in a 
world heading in a different direction. 

The Universal Year influence, whether positive or negative, 
is never particularly large. It should be covered in one or two 
sentences of the delineation at most. If the Universal Year is 
neither the same as nor in conflict with the Personal Year, its 
effect can be ignored. 


THE PERSONAL YEAR DESCRIBES THE YEARLY AP¬ 
PROACH TO EVENTS LIKELY TO PRODUCE GROWTH 
AND DEVELOPMENT. By using the described approach, the 
subject is in the best posture to take advantage of the events and 
opportunities presented, as well as to avoid or alleviate the con¬ 
fusions and difficulties attendant on the experiences en¬ 
countered. The Personal Year is a very important cycle. 


THE PERSONAL YEAR IS THE SUM OF THE BIRTH 
MONTH, BIRTH DAY AND UNIVERSAL YEAR OF THE 
YEAR IN QUESTION, EACH REDUCED TO A SINGLE 
DIGIT OR MASTER NUMBER. THE SUM IS LIKEWISE 
REDUCED TO A SINGLE DIGIT OR MASTER NUMBER. 


Examples: 

Rachel was born on June 15, 1938. What’s her Personal Year in 
1983? 

Birth Birth Universal 

Month + Day + Year 

June 15 1983 

6 + 6 + 3 = 15 

= 1 + 5 

= 6 Personal Year 

As you can see, the year of birth is of no consequence in 
calculating the Personal Year. If two people have the same 
birth month and birth day, even if they’re born in different 
years, they have the same Personal Year. 


Commentary 
on the 
Universal 
Year 


Definition 
of the 

Personal Year 


Calculation 
of the 

Personal Year 






522 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


Paul was born on August 23, 1914. What’s his Personal Year in 
1977? 


Birth 

Birth 

Universal 

Month 

+ Day + 

Year 

August 

23 

1977 

8 

+ 5 + 

6 =19 



= 1 + 9 

= 1 Personal Year 


The Personal Years, like the Universal Years, don’t register 
karmic influences. In this example, we have a 1 Personal Year, 
not a 19/1 Personal Year. 

Edwina was born on April 19, 1960. What’s her Personal Year 
in 1968? 


Birth 

Birth 

Universal 

Month 

+ Day + 

Year 

April 

19 

1968 

4 

+ 1 + 

6 =11/2 Personal Year 


The 11/2 Personal Year describes the 11 and 2 approach; the 
22/4 Personal Year describes the 22 and 4 approach. 

Robert was born on November 4, 1970. What’s his Personal 
Year at birth? 

Birth Birth Universal 

Month + Day + Year 

November 4 1970 

11 + 4 + 8 =23 

= 2 + 3 

= 5 Personal Year 

The first Personal Year in everyone’s life is the same number 
as the Life Path. 


Time span 
and 
transitions 
of the 
Personal Year 


The Personal Year, like the Universal Year, lasts one year, 
from January 1 to December 31. It may be felt to some degree 
from October through December of the previous year. Its 
fading influence can be felt through January and February of 
the following year. (The first Personal Year in an individual’s 
life is usually shorter than a full year, extending only from the 
birthday to December 31. Only if a person is born on January 
1, does the first Personal Year last a complete year.) 






CHAPTER 31: THE PERSONAL YEAR, THE EPICYCLE 


523 


Actions predicated on the approach described by the Per¬ 
sonal Year are more powerful between March and September 
because the influences are operating in a pure form, without 
the overlay of previous or coming approaches. If an action or 
event of importance can be scheduled, schedule it for maxi¬ 
mum impact in those middle seven months. 


If you turn to chart 16:personal year/universal year, on 
page 724, you’ll find the description of the Personal Years in 
the top row. The capitalized words or phrases emphasize the 
chief characteristic of each year’s approach. 


Although there may be only one or two parts to the main ap¬ 
proach for the Personal Year, there are often a few other constit¬ 
uents which add to that approach. Occasionally, an individual 
will find a year developing so that he has possibilities for 
growth along a number of different avenues. In a 1 Personal 
Year, for instance, he may find opportunities to clarify his 
goals, start a new venture, become more independent and de¬ 
velop his individuality—with all those opportunities, it’s likely 
to be an exciting and significant year. In most years, though, 
an individual will probably find only one or two doors opening. 
He should concentrate ..on growth in those areas with the most 
potential—it certainly isn’t necessary to work on all the 
possibilities for each year to feel that progress is being made. 

The chart presents the approaches, of course, in general 
terms. It shouldn’t be expected to be followed rigidly every day 
of the year. By all means, take a month’s vacation in a 4 Per¬ 
sonal Year. It’s true that the primary direction emphasizes 
work, but other activities are not only acceptable but desirable. 
Similarly, don’t use a 5 Personal Year, with its emphasis on 
freedom, as an excuse to avoid all work or duty. Free¬ 
dom—especially the constructive use of freedom—implies an 
acute awareness of other directions. 

Interpret each year’s tactics broadly. A person weighed 
down with responsibility may find a 6 Personal Year a good 
time to clarify those responsibilities and possibly even dispense 
with a few of them. A too responsible individual may end a 6 
Personal Year with less obligations than at the start of the 
year—that’s not a “standard” approach, but it’s undoubtedly a 
step in a positive direction. A strong individualist, to cite 
another example, may find a 1 Personal Year a fine time to 
abandon some of those traits that alienate and confuse others. 


Chart 16: 

Personal 

Year/ 

Universal 

Year 

Commentary 
on the 

Personal Year 




Definition 
of the 
Epicycle 


Epicycles 

and 

Periods 


Epicycles 

and 

Pinnacles 


Epicycles 
with 
Life Path 
1 , 2 , 11/2 
and 3 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


Again, not the usual approach, but, nevertheless, a move to be 
applauded. 


The Personal Years run in consecutive order from 1 to 9 ex¬ 
cept for the occasional substitution of 11/2 for 2 or 22/4 for 4. 
(When figuring the second and fourth years, always do the 
complete calculation to determine if a master number is 
present.) 

THE ONGOING FLOW OF THE PERSONAL YEARS 
FORMS A VERY IMPORTANT REPEATING NINE YEAR 
CYCLE CALLED THE EPICYCLE. THE EPICYCLE IS 
THE VITAL CONNECTION BETWEEN THE LONG 
TERM AND MEDIUM TERM CYCLES. IN A SENSE, IT’S 
THE BASIC BUILDING BLOCK ON WHICH THE ENTIRE 
PROGRESSED CYCLE STRUCTURE RESTS. 

For most of us, the first Epicycle in our life is abbreviated. 
(Only those with a 1 Life Path start life with a 1 Personal Year 
and a complete Epicycle.) After this abbreviated start, the First 
Period then extends for an additional two or three Epicycles. 
The important Second Period starts in a 1 Personal Year and 
lasts three or four complete Epicycles. The Third Period also 
starts in a 1 Personal Year as the Epicycles continue. 

The First Pinnacle extends for an additional three complete 
Epicycles after the abbreviated beginning Epicycle. (Only a 
.person with a 1 Life Path starts with a complete Epicycle so 
that the First Pinnacle, in this case, is four Epicycles long.) The 
Second and Third Pinnacles start in a 1 Personal Year and each 
has a duration of one complete Epicycle. The Fourth Pinnacle 
also starts in a 1 Personal Year as the Epicycles continue. 

The long term background cycles, then, are composed of a 
finite number of Epicycles. (Epicycle is a word of ancient 
Greek origin defined as a cycle within a larger cycle.) Since all 
but the First Period and First Pinnacle must start in a 1 Per¬ 
sonal Year, three distinct patterns emerge: 


With Life Path 1, 2, 11/2 and 3 (Figure 31-1 on page 525), 
the Third Period and Fourth Pinnacles start at the same time, 
denoting a strong change in the background tone at ages 52, 53, 
or 54. There may be a distinct change of interest and direction 
in middle age, sometimes surprising because of its abruptness. 
This is sometimes a difficult transition with much to work out 
in the ensuing years. 



CHAPTER 31: THE PERSONAL YEAR, THE EPICYCLE 


525 


/ 


First F 
Period | 


\ 

/ 


1 Epicycle 


First 

Pinnacle 


Second F 
Period | 


Second 

Pinnacle 


V 

/ 


Third 

Pinnacle 


Third 

Period 


I Fourth 
| Pinnacle 


/ 


Figure 31-1 
Epicycles 
with 

Life Path 
1, 2, 11/2 and 3 


With a 4 and 22/4 Life Path (Figure 31-2 on page 526), 
the Periods and Pinnacles never change at the same time. This is 
the only pattern in which the Second Period lasts four Epicycles 
rather than three and encompasses all four Pinnacles. The in¬ 
fluence of the Second Period, lasting from age 24 to 59, is likely 
to be significant. * 


Epicycles 

with 

Life Path 
4 and 22/4 


With Life Path 5 through 9 (Figure 31-3 on page 526), the 
Second Period and Second Pinnacle start at the same time, in¬ 
dicating a strong change in the background tone somewhere 
between the ages of 28 and 32. This is, as a matter of fact, Hal 
Allen’s pattern and was discussed in Chapter 30. This configu¬ 
ration is sometimes an indicator of a sudden maturation—a 
slow starter who, out of the blue, begins to move, or a steady 
developer who, at this point in the life, begins a dramatic 
upsurge. 


Epicycles 

with 

Life Path 
5 through 9 


We’ll examine the Epicycle in more detail. Let’s become 
aware, not so much of the individual years but rather of the 
flow from year to year. 


Commentary 
on the 
Epicycle 






526 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


/ 


First I 
Period | 


\ 

/ 


■ 1 Epicycle 


1 First 
( Pinnacle 


Second 

Period 


( Second 
Pinnacle 

1 Third 
Pinnacle 


Third 

Period 


I Fourth 
I Pinnacle 


/ 


Figure 31-2 
Epicycles 
with 

Life Path 
4 and 22/4 


/ 




- First I 
Period 1 


First 

Pinnacle 


1 Epicycle 


( 


Second 

Pinnacle 


Second 

Period 


Third 

Pinnacle 


\ 


V 

/ 


Third I 
Period | 


l Fourth 
| Pinnacle 


Figure 31-3 
Epicycles 
with 

Life Path 
5 through 9 




CHAPTER 31: THE PERSONAL YEAR, THE EPICYCLE 


527 


THE EPICYCLE 


PERSONAL 

YEAR _ APPROACH 

1 Plan and begin. 

Make changes, expand. 

2 Wait, cooperate. 

Stay in the 

background. 

3 Express the joy of 

living. 

Concentrate on self- 
improvement. 

4 Work hard, take care 

of details. 

Put everything in 
order. 


5 Make changes, expand. 

Seek new directions. 


6 


7 


8 

9 


Take care of family re¬ 
sponsibilities. 

Work for harmony. 

Study past, present— 
plan for the future. 

Reflect, analyze, 
meditate. 

Act dynamically. 

Accomplish, advance, 
achieve recognition. 

Complete experiences. 

Contemplate future 
plans. 


COMMENTS 


Take action. 

Be prepared for im¬ 
portant change. 

Be receptive. 
(Receptive 11 Personal 
Year is sometimes 
substituted.) 

Take action. 


Take action only in 
order to con¬ 
solidate. 

(Active 22 Personal 
Year is sometimes 
substituted.) 

Take action. 

Be prepared for im¬ 
portant change. 

Be receptive. 


Be receptive. 


Take action. 


Take action only in 
order to complete 
Be receptive. 

Be prepared for im¬ 
portant change. 


The flow, as you can see, is not a direct one. There are di¬ 
versions, meanderings, detours. There are dramatic forward 
thrusts and times for patient waiting. You can be sure only that 
the endeavors started in the 1 Personal Year will come to some 
sort of fruition in the 8 Personal Year and will fade or change in 
the transition 9 Personal Year. 





528 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


However redundant and confusing, the flow of the Epicycle 
does eventually bring endeavors to completion. More impor¬ 
tant, I suspect, is the growth and development of the individual 
that comes with the Epicycle flow. The Epicycle has a place for 
all levels, intensities and qualities of experience. It also allows 
for careful timing of proposed action for maximum impact. 

Begin to think of life as a series of Epicycles. Begin to sense 
the ebb and flow of this important indicator. Check where you 
are in your own Epicycle and check those close to you, too. 
Look at the Personal Year in relation to previous activities and 
the potentials being developed. Is Paul taking advantage of his 
5 Personal Year to expand his plans and move forward with his 
enterprises? Is Judy waiting patiently through her 7 Personal 
Year, contemplating her past endeavors and planning for 
future ones? And, is Ellen phasing out parts of her life in her 9 
Personal Year and looking into new projects to begin in the 
coming year? An understanding of the Epicycle and its compo¬ 
nent Personal Years gives a sense of structure and balance to the 
life. 

Think of each Epicycle as flowing into the next. The 9 Per¬ 
sonal Year does not bring the Epicycle to an abrupt halt; 
rather, it provides a transition year whose energies move unin¬ 
terruptedly into the 1 Personal Year at the beginning of the 
subsequent Epicycle. 

The Universal Years follow their own Epicycle, but the pat¬ 
tern here is of less importance. In Chapters 34 and 35, you’ll see 
that the Personal Month and Personal Day, the short term 
cycles, maintain a similar configuration. 


Personal Year A delineation of any Personal year in an Epicycle includes 
delineation the following: 

description A. An awareness of the long term cycles. The tone set by the 
background cycles would affect the Personal Year even 
though the description of the current Period and Pinnacle 
might be described separately. A 1 Personal Year with a 3 
Period and 2 Pinnacle, for instance, has a different con¬ 
notation than a 1 Personal Year with an 8 Period and a 1 
Pinnacle. 

B. An awareness of the Epicycle. If you think of an 
individual’s life as a series of Epicycles, with each Epicycle 
on a potentially more evolved level than the last, the partic¬ 
ular Epicycle in which the Personal Year is placed is of im¬ 
portance. The fifth Epicycle of life has more potential, for 
instance, than the first or second. In the delineation, we’re 
particularly concerned with the location of the Epicycle 





CHAPTER 31: THE PERSONAL YEAR, THE EPICYCLE 


529 


within the background cycles. For example, we have a Sec¬ 
ond Period made up of three Epicycles. The first Epicycle 
has a beginning quality, the third a sense of more ac¬ 
complishment. A 4 Personal Year, for instance, with its em¬ 
phasis on work, would read somewhat differently in each 
Epicycle. 

C. A description of the Universal Year (from Chart 16). One or 
two sentences is sufficient if the Universal Year is the same 
or in conflict with the Personal Year. Otherwise, ignore it. 

D. A description of the Personal Year (from Chart 16). With a 
22 Personal Year, clarify the option to revert to a 4 Personal 
Year, or to operate with both the 22 and 4 approaches. I 
usually ignore the 22 approach unless the subject is over 
thirty years old, except for mention of the nervous tension. 
With an 11 Personal Year, describe both the 11 and the 2.1 
don’t usually read the 11 approach unless the subject is over 
twenty, except, again, to note the nervous tension. 

E. The subject’s current potentials—both from the birthname 
and current name(s), as well as the birthdate. The subject’s 
energies define the ability to enhance, deflect or mute the 
approach described by the Personal Year. The core ele¬ 
ments, Karmic Debts, Karmic Lessons and Challenge, may 
be of importance, along with any other strong modifiers 
which either flow or conflict with the approach. Usually, 
the elements or modifiers with a number matching the Per¬ 
sonal Year number are of particular concern. 

F. Preparation for the next Personal Year. A brief description 
of the approach for the subsequent year provides some un¬ 
derstanding of the ongoing flow. 


We’ll delineate a few of Hal Allen’s Personal Years. We 
can fill in the Personal Year and the Universal Year columns on 
his progressed chart using the calculations outlined at the be¬ 
ginning of this chapter (Figure 31-4 on page 530). 

Note that the Universal Year has recurring 22/4 rather than 4 
Years. This is typical of most of the twentieth century, but 
won’t occur at all in the twenty-first. 

Hal has a recurring 11/2 Personal Year. Hal has little 11 
energy but the 11 approach should be briefly mentioned when 
the 11/2 Personal Year occurs. 

The start of each Epicycle is marked with a strong horizontal 
line in the Personal Year column. (The Universal Year Epicycle 
isn't marked because the weakness of the cycle gives little 
reason to call attention to its beginning.) 


Example: 
Hal Allen’s 
progressed 
chart 




PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


HARLAN WILLIAM ALLEN 
MAY 12, 1941 


Age 


_0 

2 

_3 

_5 

_6 

7 

_ 8 _ 

_9_ 

i®. 

11 

12 
_13_ 

14 

15 

16 


Medium Term 

Transits 



Year 

Lang Term 

Personal 

Year 

Universal 

Year 


Period 

Pinnacle 

5 

6 

1941 

5 

8 

6 

7 

1942 

5 

8 

7 

8 

1943 

5 

8 

8 

9 

1944 

5 

8 

9 

1 

1945 

5 

8 

1 

2 

1946 

5 

8 

!BE9 

mm 

1947 

5 

8 

3 

wwm 

1948 

5 


4 

5 

1949 

5 

SeS 

5 

6 

1950 

5 

8 

6 

7 

1951 

5 

8 

7 

8 

1952 

5 

8 

8 

9 

1953 

mm 

8 

9 

1 

1954 

5 

8 

1 

2 

1955 

5 

8 

ina 

n 

1956 

mm 

8 

3 


1957 

5 

8 

4 

5 


f? 

— 



Figure 31-4 
Progressed Chart 

with Personal Year and Universal Year: 
Hal Allen 



















































































CHAPTER 31: THE PERSONAL YEAR , THE EPICYCLE 


531 


Let’s look at Hal in 1956, 1976 and 1986. Each portion of the 
Personal Year delineations is written in the present tense. We’re 
assuming here that Hal’s birthname is also his current 
name—that there are no additional energies from new names. 

1956: 11/2 PERSONAL YEAR 
Hal turns 15. 

THE DATA: 

A. 5 First Period on a 5 Life Path, 8 First Pinnacle. See com¬ 
plete description, page 513 of Chapter 30. 

B. The second complete Epicycle of the 3V2 Epicycles in this 
Period and Pinnacle. 

C. 3 Universal Year. 

D. 11/2 Personal Year. 

E. Hal’s related potentials: 

2 Karmic Lesson 
6 Expression 

6 Modified Karmic Lesson 

Conflict with 5 Life Path, 14/5 Karmic Debt, 5-5. 

F. Prepare for following 3 Personal Year. 

THE DELINEATION: 

You're likely to be in an environment filled with 
activity, variety and uncertainty. Since you tend to 
jump from activity to activity and since your 
youth probably precludes a desire for accomplish¬ 
ment, you,may be content enough with this state 
of affairs. You may be involved, even at your 
young age, in some sort of work but I suspect it 
makes you feel restricted (5 First Period, 8 First 
Pinnacle). 

This year is apt to present some frustrating aspects 
to a person with your restless nature. You may 
have to wait longer than you'd like for activities to 
develop. You should be prepared for delays, 
detours and stoppages. This is a good time to 
develop more patience, although you may not be 
much interested in making the effort (2 Personal 
Year and second Epicycle in this Period and Pinnacle 
with 2 Karmic Lesson, conflict with 5 energy). 

If you have a job or if you're working at home or 
with friends, concentrate on working with others in 
a spirit of cooperation. Try to relate to others tact¬ 
fully and with consideration. Emphasize harmony. 


Hal Allen’s 
Personal Year 
delineations 

Delineation: 

1956 




532 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


Take care of the details when necessary. Give time 
and effort to further another's work ( 2 Personal 
Year). There's a responsible, understanding side to 
you which hasn't had much chance to develop in 
the uncertain atmosphere around you, but this is a 
good time to work on these important abilities (6 
Expression , 6 Modified Karmic Lesson ). 

Emotions and sensitivity need to be kept in 
balance. If you don't practice self-control —and 
there are likely to be many situations not to your 
liking—there may well be substantially heightened 
nervous tension. It's likely to provoke disharmony 
and distract from your ability to absorb new 
awarenesses (2 Personal Year and 11 Personal Year). 

Next year, you'll be happy to know, will probably 
be full of much more in the way of fun, social life 
and entertainment and much less in the way of 
lessons and responsibility {preparation for 3 Personal 
Year). 

The delineation is primarily based on the 2 Personal Year 
description rather than the 11 Personal Year, since Hal is only 
fifteen years old. The 11 nervous tension, though, is noted. The 
reading is modified to accentuate Hal’s youth. 

chart 16: the personal year/the universal year is in¬ 
tended for ages eighteen and up. Descriptions of Personal Years 
for children and teenagers have to be rephrased to account for 
activities to be expected at younger ages. 


Delineation: 1976: 4 PERSONAL YEAR 
1976 Hal turns 35. 

THE DATA: 

A. 3 Second Period on a 5 Life Path, 9 Second Pinnacle. See 

complete description, page 515 of Chapter 30. 

B. The first Epicycle of the Second Period. 

C. 5 Universal Year. 

D. 4 Personal Year 

E. Hal’s related potentials: 

Conflict with 5 Life Path, 14/5 Karmic Debt, 5-5. 

F. Prepare for following 5 Personal Year. 






CHAPTER 31: THE PERSONAL YEAR, THE EPICYCLE 


THE DELINEATION: 

You're likely to be in an environment stressing 
social, creative and verbal activities. You may be 
involved in philanthropic, humanistic or artistic 
endeavors (3 Second Period, 9 Second Pinnacle). This 
is a good year to stabilize your ventures, to 
establish a secure base for future development (4 
Personal Year). 

Concentrate on hard work, mental and/or physical. 
Work to put a solid base under your endeavors. 
Search out and strengthen the weak areas. Take 
care of all the details. Put everything in order, 
ready for potential growth (4 Personal Year). Use 
your creativity, versatility, and enthusiasm in get¬ 
ting the job done (5 Life Path). You're likely to feel 
a sense of excitement in the air and be irritated 
that you have to spend so much time working (5 
Universal Year emphasized by 5 Life Path). This is a 
fine time to solidify your humanistic or philan¬ 
thropic ideas. You may want to begin solidifying 
your artistic ideas now, too ( 4 Personal Year with 9 
Pinnacle and the first Epicycle of the 3 Period). 

Make an effort to meet your obligations. If work is 
shirked, the resulting leisure isn't likely to be en- 
joyable^Work may be long and unremitting, but 
there's much satisfaction to be obtained from its 
completion. Progress is apt to be slower than you 
expect. Don't depend on luck or dreams—they're 
not much help at this time (4 Personal Year). I hope 
you've worked through your restlessness and 
tendency to jump from activity to activity. If you 
haven't, you're likely to have difficulty meeting 
your obligations (5 Life Path, 14/5 Karmic Debt, 5-5). 

Be efficient, economical, rational with financial 
matters. Establish a solid foundation here, too, for 
the future (4 Personal Year). 

Counteract any feelings of limitation or restriction 
by periodically interspersing some play to relieve 
the pressure of the work load. Get in some free¬ 
wheeling activities when you can to relieve those 
restless feelings (4 Personal Year with 5 Life Path). 



534 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


Check on health matters when necessary [4 Per¬ 
sonal Year). 

Next year will probably be a lot more exciting for 
you. There's likely to be much change and 
variety —new friends and opportunities ( prepara¬ 
tion for 5 Personal Year). 

The 4 Personal Year description is tempered because of Hal’s 
5 energies. Because of his age, it’s assumed that he’s made some 
progress in handling the negative 5 potentials. 


Delineation: 1986: 5 PERSONAL YEAR 

1986 t urns 45 

THE DATA: 

A. 3 Second Period on a 5 Life Path, 8 Third Pinnacle. See 

analysis, page 516 of Chapter 30. 

B. The second Epicycle of the Second Period. 

C. 6 Universal Year. 

D. 5 Personal Year. 

E. Hal’s related potentials: 

5 Life Path 

14/5 Karmic Debt 

5-5 

Conflict with 6 Expression, 6 Modified Karmic Lesson. 

F. Prepare for following 6 Personal Year. 

THE DELINEATION: 

You're likely to be in an environment stressing 
social, creative and verbal activities along with the 
enjoyment of life's pleasures. There's apt to be 
some emphasis on business or commercial activ¬ 
ity, too (3 Second Period, 8 Third Pinnacle). 

This is a year to expand horizons, to grow and 
change, to delight in the variety of experience. En¬ 
joy the new friends, new opportunities, the adven¬ 
ture and excitement. Enjoy the social activities. 
Revel in the freedom (5 Personal Year). If possible, 
take advantage of opportunities to continue devel¬ 
oping your artistic skills ( Second Epicycle of the 3 
Second Period). 





CHAPTER 31: THE PERSONAL YEAR, THE EPICYCLE 


535 


Concentrate on feeling loose and free. Move away 
from old routines, but do it constructively. If 
you're bogged down, seek out new directions. The 
opportunities lie with the new and progressive. In¬ 
volvement with detail work will probably feel con¬ 
fining (5 Personal Year). Your versatility, cleverness 
and enthusiasm should make it easy for you to en¬ 
joy all the activity (5 Life Path). 

Don't scatter your energy in all directions. In the 
past, you've tended to be restless and impulsive. If 
you're more careful in using freedom, if you have 
a better balance here, there will be less interfer¬ 
ence with the free-wheeling opportunities (5 Per¬ 
sonal Year with 14/5 Karmic Debt, 5-5). 

There may be an important change in this year —a 
change of residence, work or family situation. You 
may not initiate the change, but the ultimate ef¬ 
fect is dependent on your ability to take advan¬ 
tage of it and use it to help in forward movement 
(5 Personal Year). 

Be sure to take care of your responsibilities, par¬ 
ticularly related to family and friends (6 Expression, 
6 Modified Karmic Lesson, 6 Universal Year). After the 
whirl of this year, you may look forward to next 
year with .its quieter emphasis on family and 
domestic matters ( preparation for 6 Personal Year). 

Because of his age, there’s a good chance that Hal’s 5 energy 
is in good balance. If so, it contributes to the pleasures of a 5 
Personal Year. 


In our three examples, Hal’s age and energies along with the 
balance of those energies significantly affect his approach to his 
life experiences. We can’t predict what he’ll do or how he’ll 
feel. We can, though, expect that his 5 Personal Year, at ages 
44 and 45, will probably give him a good deal of opportunity, 
excitement and adventure, while his 4 Personal Year, at ages 43 
and 44, is likely to be filled with the pressures of work and ser¬ 
vice. What transpires is up to Hal—if he chooses to loaf 
through the 4 year and labor through the 5 year, he’s not likely 




536 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


to feel much sense of satisfaction, but, if he uses his energies 
judiciously, he can benefit in both years. 

The Epicycle and the Personal Year give us a remarkable op¬ 
portunity for focusing our diverse energies from year to year. 
Become aware of the meaningful effect on your life and the 
lives of those close to you. 


CHAPTER 32: THE TRANSITS, THE ESSENCE 


537 


CHAPTER 32 


MEDIUM TERM CYCLES, PART 2: 
THE TRANSITS 
THE ESSENCE 


THE TRANSITS AND THE ESSENCE ARE MEDIUM 
TERM CYCLES DESCRIBING PROBABLE EVENTS OR 
THE PROBABLE TREND OF EVENTS. The events relate to 
the individual’s personal and professional life, the use of the 
talents, the personal relationships—friendships, romances, 
marriages, families—travel and health. The Transits and Es¬ 
sence describe the events to which the approach, described by 
the Personal Year, is directed. These three cycles are very im¬ 
portant, the most significant of all the progressed cycles. 


All the cycles we’ve discussed so far and the additional cycles 
in Chapter 34 and 35 are derived from the birthdate. The 
Transits and Essence are the only cycles derived from the 
birthname. 

Each letter of each name in the birthname describes the 
events in specific periods of the life. THE INFLUENCE OF 
EACH LETTER, CALLED THE TRANSIT, LASTS A 
GIVEN NUMBER OF YEARS EQUIVALENT TO THE 
MODIFIER NUMBER OF THE LETTER. The modifier 
number is, of course, the letter’s place in the alphabet reduced 
to a single digit. For instance: 

A, the first letter, has a 1 year Transit. 

B, the second letter, has a 2 Year Transit. . . . 


Definition 


Calculation 
of the 
Transits 



538 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


K, the eleventh letter, has a 2 year Transit. 

(11 = 1 + 1 = 2; master numbers do not apply to the dura¬ 
tion of the Transits.) 

L, the twelfth letter, has a 3 year Transit. 

(12 = 1 + 2 = 3). . . . 

N, the fourteenth letter, has a 5 year Transit. 

(14 = 1 + 4 = 5). . . . 

Z, the twenty-sixth letter, has an 8 year Transit. 

(26 = 2 + 6 = 8). 

The number of years each Transit lasts, then, is as follows: 


A J S . 1 year 

B K T . 2 year 

C L U . 3 year 

D M V . 4 year 

E N 'W . 5 year 

F O X . 6 year 

G P Y . 7 year 

H Q Z . 8 year 

I R 9 year 


Here is the method for calculating the Transits for the many 
years in an individual’s life. We’ll use the name of a fictitious 
lady: 


DALE LEE SANDER, born on October 11, 1952 


On Dale’s progressed chart, we first fill in the Age and Year 
columns as discussed in Chapter 27. 

We work with one name at a time. We start with the first 
name, Dale, and show its Transits in the first Transit column to 
the left (Figure 32-1 on page 539). 

The letters of this first name express their influence, one after 
the other, each lasting its specific number of years. 

D, the first letter in Dale, has a 4 year Transit. We print the 
D to cover 4 years: age 0 (year of birth), age 1, 2, and 3. 

A, the second letter in Dale, has a 1 year Transit. A expresses 
its influence only at age 4. 

L, the third letter, has a 3 year Transit, covering ages 5, 6 
and 7. 

E, the fourth and last letter has a 5 year Transit. The chart 
shows the influence of E at ages 8, 9, 10, 11, 12. 

- The influence of the first name lasts thirteen years—from age 
0 through age 12. Having finished this first Transit of Dale, we 
start the second: 












CHAPTER 32: THE TRANSITS, THE ESSENCE 


539 


D, with a 4 year Transit, influences age 13, 14, 15, 16. 

A, with a 1 year Transit, influences age 17. 

L, with a 3 year Transit, influences age 18, 19, 20. 

E, with a 5 year Transit, influences age 21, 22, 23, 24, 25. 

We can continue with additional Transits of Dale as far as 
weTe interested in going. A light horizontal line is placed at the 
end of each letter’s Transit. We have now completed the calcu¬ 
lation of the Transits of the first name. 


DALE LEE SANDER 
OCTOBER 11, 1952 


Age 

Medium Term 


Year 

Long 

Term 


Transits 

Essence 

Personal 

Year 

Jniversal 

Year 


Period 

Pinnacle 




- 




1952 



0 

D 



_ 




1953 



1 

_D 


_ 

_ 




1954 



2 

HI 


_ 

_ 




1955 




HI 



_ 




1956 




o 

_ 

_ 

_ 




1957 




a 


_ 

_ 




1958 



6 

□ 



_ 




1959 



7 

E9 


_ 

_ 




1960 



8 

LJ 


_ 

_ 




1961 



9 

Q 



_ 




1962 



10 

E3 


_ 

_ 




1963 



11 

El 







1964 



12 

Q 

_ 

_ 

_ 




1965 



13 

□ 



_ 




1966 



14 



_ s 

_ 




1967 



15 

Li 


_ 

_ 




1968 



16 

ED 


_ 

_ 




1969 



17 

O 

— 

_ 

_ 




1970 



18 

El 

_ 

_ 

_ 




1971 



19 

El 


_ 





1972 



20 

E9 


_ 

_ 




1973 



21 

B 


_ 

_ 




1974 



22 

El 



_ 




1975 



23 

IE! 



_ 




1976 



24 

IE! 


_ 

_ 




1977 



25 

|H 



_ 




1978 



26 

D 



_ 




1979 



27 

_D 



_ 




1980 



28 








1981 



' 29 

in 


_ 

_ 




1982 



30 

in 


_ 

_ 




1983 



31 

ID 



_ 




1984 



32 

ID 


_ 

_ 




1985 



33 

Id 


_ 

_ 




1986 



34 

Id 



_ 




1987 



35 

Id 










Figure 32-1 
Progressed Chart 
with Transits of First Name: 
Dale Lee Sander 












































540 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


The Transits of Lee, the second name, are placed in the sec¬ 
ond Transit column in a similar manner (Figure 32-2 below on 
this page). 

First, the 3 year L Transit, followed by the 5 year E Transit 
which is, in turn, followed by another 5 year Transit for the 
second E. 

The first Transit of Lee lasts 13 years from age 0 (birth) to 
age 12. It’s just a coincidence that both the Dale and Lee Tran¬ 
sits end at the same age. 

DALE LEE SANDER 
OCTOBER 11, 1952 


Medium Term 



Essence ! Personal Universal 
I Year Year 



Period Pinnacle 


Figure 32-2 
Progressed Chart 

with Transits of First and Middle Names: 
Dale Lee Sander 





















































































CHAPTER 32: THE TRANSITS, THE ESSENCE 


541 


We continue with additional Transits of Lee. The second 
Transit ends at age 25, the third ending at age 38, is off the 
chart. 


The Transits of the last name, Sander, are placed in the third 
Transit column in a similar manner (Figure 32-3 below on this 
page). (If there was a fourth name, its Transits would, of course, 
be placed in the fourth Transit column.) 

DALE LEE SANDER 
OCTOBER 11, 1952 


Age 

Medium Term 

Year 

Long 

Term 


Transits 

Essence 

Personal 

Year 

Universal 

Year 


Period 

Pinnacle 




_ 




1952 



0 

HI 

B 

HI 

_ 



mm 




1 

HI 

E3 

HI 

_ 




1954 




HI 

E9 

EHl 

_ 




1955 




H 

B 

HI 

_ _ 




1956 



4 

H 

B 

ESI 

_ 




H3B 



5 

D 

B 

ESI 

_ 




1958 



6 

B 

Ql 

ESI 

_ 




1959 



7 

n 

B 

EH 

_ 




1960 



8 

h 

13 

B 

_ 




1961 



9 

B 

B 

B 

_ 




1962 



10 

H 

E3 

E3 





1963 



11 

B 

E3 

B 





1964 



12 

E3 

13 

K3 

_ 




1965 



13 

EH 

E9 

B 

_ „ 




1966 



14 

B 

B 

E3 

_ 




1967 



15 

H 

E3 

E3 





1968 



16 " 

EH 

E3 

K3 





1969 



17 

D 

E3 

13 

_ 







18 

D 

13 

E3 

_ 




1971 



19 

B 

13 

13 

_ 




1972 



20 

n 

13 

B 

_ 




1973 



21 

B 

R3 

B 

_ 




1974 



22 

B 

13 

B 

_ 




1975 



23 

E3 

13 

B 

_ 




1976 



24 

B 

13 

HI 

' 




1977 



25 

13 

13 

B 





1978 



26 

H 

B 

ES 





1979 



27 

H 

B 

H 





1980 



28 

H 

B 

El 





1981 



29 

E 

B 

El 





1982 



30 

13 

IB 

IE1 





1983 



31 

IQ 

IB 

Id 





1984 



32 

IQ 

IB 

IE3 





1985 



33 

ID 

IB 

IB 





1986 



34 

IQ 

IQ 

IB 




1987 



35 

IQ 

IB 

IB 








Figure 32-3 
Progressed Chart 
with All Transits: 
Dale Lee Sander 














































































542 


PART V; PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


Calculation 
of the 
Essence 


Time span 


As you can see, the first Transit of Sander runs 25 years from 
age 0 (birth) to 24. The second Transit ends off the chart at age 
49. 

We’ve now calculated Dale’s complete Transits from birth to 
age 35. 


THE ESSENCE FOR EACH YEAR IS CALCULATED BY 
ADDING UP THE MODIFIER NUMBERS OF THE TRAN¬ 
SITS FOR THE YEAR AND REDUCING THE SUM TO A 
SINGLE DIGIT OR MASTER NUMBER (Figure 32-4 on page 
543). 

At Dale’s birth (age 0), the Transits are D, L and S. 

D + L + S 

= 4 + 3+1 = 8 Essence 

At age 1, the Transits are D, L and A. 

D + L + A 

= 4 + 3 +1 = 8 Essence 

Even though the Transits for the two years are different, the 
Essence is the same. 

At age 2, the Essence is 

D + L + N 

= 4 + 3+ 5 = 12 

= 1 + 2 = 3 
= 12/3 Essence 

The Essence at age 2 is written as 12/3 because the number 
“behind” the Essence, in this case the 12 “behind” the 3, adds 
its own subtleties. For Dale’s first two years, there are no 
numbers “behind” the Essence. 

We proceed down the chart, adding the Transits to find the 
Essence and recording the Essence in its column. A horizontal 
line is placed at the end of the time span of each Essence. 


The Transits last between one and nine years. They start on 
the subject s birthday (rather than on January 1 like most 
cycles) and end on the day before the birthday (rather than 
December 31 like most cycles). 





CHAPTER 32: THE TRANSITS, THE ESSENCE 


543 


The Essence lasts a minimum of one year and occasionally as 
much as nine or ten years. They usually don’t last more than 
three or four years. Like the Transits, the Essence starts on the 
subject’s birthday and ends on the day before the birthday. 

There’s little in the way of transition from Transit to Transit 
or Essence to Essence. Sometimes, the Transit or Essence is felt 
to some degree about a month before the birthday beginning 
and about a month after the birthday ending. Often, partic- 


DALE LEE SANDER 
OCTOBER 11, 1952 


Age 

Medium Term 1 

Year 


mi 


Transits 


Essence 

Personal 

Year 

Universal 

Year 


Period 

Pinnacle 

■i 

■ 


_. 




1952 



0 

HI 

HI 

HI 


8 


■■ 

sa 



1 

HI 

Hi 

Ell 


^E1 



1954 



2 

HI 

Hi 

HI 


wm* 



1955 



3 

HI 

H 

HI 


rera 



1956 



4 

Ell 

H 

HI 


ma 



1957 



5 

H 

H 

H 


IWE1 



1958 



6 

E9 

H 

H 


EMI 



1959 



7 

E9 

H 

H 


tmu 



1960 



8 

13 

H 

El 


iEBidl 



1961 



9 

El 

H 

El 


■ Ettl 



1962 



10 

H 

El 

El 


IFTE1 



1963 



11 

11 

EE 

H 


UsZLitf 



1964 



12 

H 

H 

El 


Hiflil 



1965 



13 

El 

D 

El 





1966 



14 

□ 

D 

El 


iwkl 



1967 



15 

e a 

H 

El 

_ 

EMI 



1968 



16 . 

QS 

aaB 

El 


mm-.m 



1969 



17 

El 

El 

O 

_ 

EMU 



1970 



18 

El 

H 

□ 


■Irli.’l 


““ “^ 

1971 



19 

El 

El 

□ 


Uftil 



1972 



20 

E9 

El 

O 


EMI 



1973 



21 

El 

H 

El 


mvrtU 



1974 



22 

El 

El 

Q 


EMM 



1975 



23 

El 

El 

El 


EMI 



1976 



24 

IH 

El 

El 


EMI 



1977 



25 

10 

H 

H 


\mmm 



1978 



26 

IH 

19 

El 


HKl 

— 


1979 



27 

IH 

IE9 

IS 


Mm* 



1980 



28 

IH 

IH 

BE 


IEM1 



ItkklH 

1^ 


29 

IH 

IH 

m 


\tsm 



1982 



30 

IE! 

lEl 

IH 


Iehm 



1983 



31 

IQ 

IQ 

m 


IEEE1 



1984 



32 

IQ 

IH 

IH 


IEM1 



1985 



33 

IQ 

IH 

IH 


|EM1 



1986 



34 

IQ 

IH 

IH 


\UM 

■| 


1987 



35 

IQ 

IH 

IH 


1ED3 







Figure 32-4 
Progressed Chart 
with Transits and Essences: 
Dale Lee Sander 


Transitions 






















































544 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


ularly with the longer Transits, it may be a few months after 
the start of the Transit before the individual is fully aware of 
the new influences, even though they’ve been operational since 
the birthday. 


Chart 17: Turn to chart 17: the essence, on page 738. The top row 

Essence g ives a general description of the Essence, listing the events and 
opportunities to be expected. Capitalized words or phrases in 
the description of each Essence emphasize the probable type of 
activity. Sometimes, desirable means of dealing with the activi¬ 
ties are also included. They are not integral to the Essence, but 
indicate specific characteristics and energies which, if avail - 
able, are helpful in appropriately developing the opportunities. 

Commentary All of the Essences may indicate significant times in the life, 
but some seem to make a more dramatic impact than others. 
The 1 Essence, with its feeling of change and new direction, 
often marks an auspicious period. The 4 Essence usually in¬ 
dicates some limitations or restrictions strongly affecting the 
subject while the 5 Essence usually emphasizes impressive 
breakthroughs to freedom. The 8 Essence sometimes signifies 
important business developments with far-reaching effects 
while the 9 Essence, more often than not, introduces high 
drama and high feeling. 

An 11 Essence always indicates the possibility of events of 
both the 11 and 2 Essences and a 22 Essence the possibility of 
.r * events of-both the 22 and 4 Essences. Essences with master 
numbers often have a strong impact on the life. Even when it’s 
difficult to live up to the positive potential of the master 
number, as it is most of the time, the accompanying nervous 
tension is likely to impress itself on the subject. 

The second row on Chart 17 describes the additional em¬ 
phasis to an Essence because of the number “behind” the 
Essence. Some of these additional emphases are of minor im¬ 
port, some are extremely important. Most important of all the 
numbers “behind” are the karmic numbers^the 19/1, 13/4, 
14/5 and 16/7. 

Although a 7 Essence, or a 25/7 or 34/7 usually marks a 
period of quiet growth, the 16/7 Essence very often demarcates 
a period of great intensity and tension, a time with superior 
possibilities disguised by confusing circumstances. It’s not too 
uncommon to find the 16/7 Essence denoting an especially vital 
transition in the life. 

The 19/1 Essence is usually a bit less intense than the 
1^/7—but just a bit. The dramatic potential of the 19/1 is 
usually far clearer than the possibilities of the 16/7. The 19/1 



CHAPTER 32: THE TRANSITS, THE ESSENCE 


545 


usually indicates the possibility of a substantial and difficult 
developmental period, often a transition to a significant 
maturation. 

Usually less productive and almost as difficult as the 19/1 and 
16/7 is the 13/4 Essence. There’s a feeling here of suffocating 
and seemingly never-ending restriction. Though the limitations 
are present, they’re often there because of the subject s unclear 
view or tunnel vision, rather than because of outside cir¬ 
cumstances. This period may actually present the opportunities 
to lift the restrictions, but the shift of view to accomplish this 
may be lost in the pressures of work and duty. 

The 14/5 Essence is likely to be more frustrating than dif¬ 
ficult. The individual may feel overwhelmed by a deluge of op¬ 
portunity, adventure and experience. Sometimes, as a matter of 
fact, he has the time of his life with all the unusual, exciting 
activity, but may have great difficulty learning to handle free¬ 
dom, learning to make the most of opportunities, learning to 
grow and develop. Potentials with major future possibilities are 
often lost or unseen until far too late for appropriate action. 

The next to last row on Chart 17 describes the effect of a long 
period—five or more years—of a single Essence. If the right 
energies are present, an extended period may be a time of un¬ 
paralleled development. Usually, though, that single emphasis 
for a long time tends to have a wearying effect. If the Essence is 
one of the more dramatic ones—the karmic Essences or the 1, 
5, 9, 11, 22 especially—that long period will need much effort 
and concentration by the individual to stay on track to reap the 
potential benefits,. 

We’ll discuss the bottom row of the chart, the Essence and 
Personal Year with the same number, in Chapter 33. 


Now turn to chart 18: the transits, on page 752. Here you’ll 
find the events and opportunities described by the twenty-six 
Transits. Important events can occur with any Transit, but 
some of the Transits seem to have a stronger impact than 
others. The one year Transits—A, J, S; the five year Transits— 
E, N, W; and the nine year Transits—I and R—make the most 
dynamic impression. 

When a particular Transit is repeated in a given year—R and 
R in the same year, for instance : —the overbalance of a single 
energy presents problems and obstacles. Chart 18 also describes 
the negative potential to be expected with doubled Transits. 
The description of the events of a year with, say, T-T Transits 
would indicate the negative potential * but the events to be ex¬ 
pected with the T Transit alone would also be included. 


Chart 18: 
Transits 


Commentary 



546 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


The Transits with strong individual impacts have strong im¬ 
pacts when repeated, too. A, J and S, because of their short 
period, are rarely doubled, but when the doubling does occur, 
the year is difficult. E, N and W are occasionally doubled, 
leading to the likelihood of a frustrating chaotic time with 
energy scattered. I and R, because of their nine year period, are 
doubled more frequently than other Transits, describing 
periods of high drama and intense emotion. Transits repeated 
three (or even four) times in a year are occasionally found. 
These Transits intensify the descriptions given for the doubled 
energy. 

Far more common than the doubled letter Transits are Tran¬ 
sits with the same modifier number occurring in a given year. 
E-N, E-W and N-W occur often and TR occurs even more fre¬ 
quently. The descriptions for these combinations are shown in 
the top row of the chart. If there’s an E-N Transit, the E-N 
description along with the E events and the N events would be 
included for the year. If there are three or four Transits with 
the same modifier number, the description is intensified. 

If you look back on Dale Sander’s progressed chart, you’ll see 
that she has an E-E Transit from ages 8 through 10, 21 through 
25 and 34, 35. She even has an E-E-E Transit at ages 11 and 12. 
She also has an E-N Transit from ages 3 through 7 and 29 
through 31. 19 of Dale’s 36 years shown contain E-E, E-E-E or 
E-N. An unusual and difficult chart configuration! 


Relative 
impact of 
Transits and 
Essence 


The Essence and the Transits all contribute to the description 
of the events for a given year. The contribution of each to the 
total description depends on the importance of their respective 
impacts. 

If there’s a karmic Essence, its very strong impact takes 
precedence over the information derived from the Transits. If 
there’s a 16/7 Essence, as an example, the events of the year 
would probably be dominated by the 16/7 Essence description. 
The 7 Essence events would also be strongly noted. The events 
described by the Transits would be added to the 16/7 Essence 
and 7 Essence descriptions, if appropriate, or listed in a secon¬ 
dary capacity. 

If there isn’t a karmic Essence with its very important impact 
present, there are several Essences and doubled (or multiple) 
Transits with important impacts that take precedence. If a 1, 
5, 9, 11 or 22 Essence is present, it takes precedence over the 
Transits. If a doubled (or multiple) A, J, S; E, N, W; I or R 
Transit is present, it takes precedence over the Essence and 
other Transit(s). 

If the 1, 5, 9, 11 or 22 Essence and a doubled (or multiple) 



CHAPTER 32: THE TRANSITS , THE ESSENCE 


547 


A, J, S; E, N, W; I or R Transit are present, they both, 
together, take precedence over the other Transit(s). Events 
other than the ones described by the governing Essence or 
Transit would be added to their description, if appropriate, or 
listed in a secondary manner. 

If none of these very important or important Essences or 
Transits are present in a given year, there are other Essences 
and Transits with above average or average impact which take 
precedence in a similar manner. If even these are not present, 
the below average Essence and Transits that are present 
describe the year’s events with neither Essence nor Transits tak¬ 
ing precedence. 

The following chart summarizes these impacts: 


RELATIVE 

IMPACT 

ESSENCE 

TRANSITS 

Very Important 

19/1,13/4,14/5,16/7 

— 

Important 

1,5,9,11,22 

Multiple or double 

A, J, S; E, N, W; 

I, R 

Above average 

4, 6,8 

Multiple or double 

1, 5, 9 modifier 
numbers; 

Below average 
Transits repeated 
more than twice; 

A 

Average 


Below average 
Transits repeated 
twice; 

J,S; E, N, W; I, R 

Below average 

2, 3, 7 

The rest of the 
Transits 


Relative 
impact chart 


Let’s see how this works in practice: 

From Figure 32-4, page 543, when Dale Sanders is ten years 
old, she has a 14/5 Essence and E, E, D Transits. 

The very important 14/5 Essence takes precedence. 
The important E ; E Transit events are added to the 14/5 
description. 

The below average D Transit is also mentioned. 


Using the 
relative 
impact chart 






348 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


When Dale is sixteen years old, she has an 18/9 Essence and 
D, E, R Transits. 

The important 18/9 Essence takes precedence. 

The average E and R Transit events are added to the 
18/9 description. 

The below average D Transit is also mentioned. 

When Dale is twenty-seven years old, she has a 12/3 Essence 
and D, L, N Transits. 

The average N Transit takes precedence. 

The below average 12/3 Essence and D, L Transits are 
added to the N Transit. 


Commentary 

on 

relative 

impact 


Don’t be misled by the phrase “relative impact.” The rela¬ 
tive impact is used here only in determining that some events 
have a greater probability of occurring in a given period than 
others. 

In numerology terms, years don’t have very important or im¬ 
portant impacts as much as they have the potential for very im¬ 
portant or important impacts. A year with a very important 
Essence or an important Essence or Transit is not necessarily a 
more significant year for an individual than a year with only 
average or below average Essence and Transits. The signifi¬ 
cance of a year can only be determined by the actual develop¬ 
ments in a person’s life. This, of course, depends on the person’s 
actual actions in relation to the events on hand. 

Let’s examine this critical point in greater detail. 

In a year with a very important 16/7 Essence, there are likely 
to be events with the potential to effect important changes in 
the life. If the individual has the ability and the desire, he may 
take advantage of the events to produce dramatic transitions 
and make that year a very important one in the life. If, on the 
other hand, the individual lacks the ability or desire, there may 
be little change or growth and the year may seem of little 
significance. 

Now in a year with only below average Essence and Transits 
present, say a 3 Essence with B, O, D Transits, what are some 
of the possibilities? Love affairs, marriage, travel, creative 
work! The B, O, D Transits would be of less significance if a 
16/7 Essence were present and, similarly, the 3 Essence would 
be of less consequence if E-E Transits were present—BUT, 
when just the 3 Essence and B, O', D Transits are present, they 
obviously can present strong, exciting possibilities. If the in¬ 
dividual takes advantage of the potential, he may begin a 





CHAPTER 32: THE TRANSITS, THE ESSENCE 


549 


beautiful marriage, take a Mediterranean cruise or compose 
and publish some original music, making the year extremely 
significant. He may, for whatever reason, not take advantage 
of the potential so that little of consequence may take place. 

In a progressed delineation, you’ll find that the events or 
trend of events themselves, as described by the Essence and 
Transits, automatically indicate the potential significance of 
the year. In the reading, then, no mention need be made of 
relative impacts. It’s up to the individual whether he rises 
above or falls below the potential importance described by the 
delineation. 


There are a few subtleties worth noting. If a specific event is 
mentioned twice in the Essence and Transits for a given year, 
that event has more possibility of occurring than if only men¬ 
tioned once. If it’s mentioned more than two times, the 
possibility increases. In a year with a 3 Essence and B, O, D 
Transits, for example, love affairs are mentioned three times (3 
Essence and B, O Transits). There’s more possibility of love af¬ 
fairs than if it was a year with a 3 Essence and J, Y, D Transits, 
where the love affairs would relate only to the 3 Essence. 

Some Transits are repeated frequently in a particular life and 
the repetition weakens the impact considerably. Occasionally, 
for example, you’ll run into a person with a middle initial but 
no middle name. Harry S. Truman, for instance, has no middle 
name. This mean?, that the S Transit appeared in every year in 
his life. With continuous repetition like that, no attention need 
be paid to the description of the S Transit. 

You’ll find that some people have many I’s and R’s in their 
name. Since each I and R has a 9 year Transit, the progressed 
chart is likely to show an I or R in many, or even most, years. 
The I or R usually produces much emotion and drama, but if an 
individual has so many repetitions of I and R, he’ll take the 
high drama he encounters for granted and it needs little specific 
mention. 


A delineation of probable events or the trend of events in¬ 
cludes the following: 

A. An awareness of the long term cycles. The tone set by the 
background cycles would affect the events even though the 
description of the current Period and Pinnacle might be 
described separately. A 6 Essence or an F Transit, for in- 


Delineation 
description 
of Transits 
and Essence 




5 50 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


stance, would operate with more impact in a 6 Period than 
a 7 Period. 

B. The events or trend of events described by the Essence 
(from Chart 17) and the Transits (from Chart 18). It’s im¬ 
portant to group the events for clarity. 

Separate the events into the following groups: 

General 

Professional 

Financial 

Personal 

Friendships 

Romance 

Marriage 

Home/Family 

Travel 

Health 

Rearrange the groups for the delineation in the order of im¬ 
pact: 

If a group contains events from a karmic Essence with 
its very important impact, that group is placed at the 
beginning of the reading and emphatically emphasized. 
(See Hal’s delineation at age twenty-five, page 553.) 

If there’s no karmic Essence, place the groups with 
events from Essences or Transits with important impacts 
at the beginning of the reading and emphasize. (See 
Hal’s delineation at age thirty-five, page 556.) 

If there’s no very important or important Essence or 
Transits, place the groups so that the above average 
events get a bit more emphasis than the average events. 
Mention the below average events in passing. (See Hal’s 
delineation at age fifteen, page 552.) 

The number of sentences devoted to each group is a 
good measure of the group’s importance. 

C. Preparation for important events, if any, coming within the 
next three or four years. 


The subject’s energies don’t modify the events themselves, 
but they do indicate the subject’s ability to deal with the 
events. In the next chapter, when we synthesize the medium 
term cycles, we’ll deal with this important issue. 







CHAPTER 32: THE TRANSITS, THE ESSENCE 


551 


We’ll delineate several years in Hal Allen’s life to show the 
probable events. Let’s first return to his progressed chart. We 
can fill in the Transits and Essence columns using the calcula¬ 
tions outlined at the beginning of the chapter (Figure 32-5 
below). 

We’ll look at the probable events in Hal’s life at ages 15, 25 
and 35. The years under consideration are shaded in the pro¬ 
gressed chart for ease of reference. Each portion of the delinea¬ 
tion is written in the present tense. 

HARLAN WILLIAM ALLEN 
MAY 12, 1941 


Age 

Medium Term 

Year 

1 Long Term | 

Transits 

Essence 

Personal 

Year 

Universe 

Year 


Period 

Pinnacle 



■1941 

5 

8 

0 

E3 

e 

El 


IEIE1 



1942 

5 

8 

1 

E3 

E5 

U 


wmm 



1943 

5 

8 

2 

E3 

E5 

□ 


irun 



1944 

5 

8 

3 

E3 

□ 

m 


irffi 



1945 

5 

8 

4 

E3 

ED 

El 


1 Mri 



1946 

5 

8 

5 

□ 

U 

E9 





1947 

5 

8 

6 

ED 

□ 

a 





1948 

5 

8 

7 

ED 

□ 

ID 


wm l 



1949 

5 

8 

8 

El 

□ 

□ 


umu 



1950 

5 

8 

9 

EH 

□ 

□ 


wmm 



1951 

5 

8 

10 

□ 

□ 

□ 


FSTEl 



1952 

5 

8 

11 

□ 

□ 

El 


imam 



1953 

5 

8 

12 

□ 

D 

ED 


EETEl 



1954 

H 

8 

13 

El 

a 

m 


wmm 



1955 


8 

14 

El 

IE9 

ed 


■ 



1956 

m 

B 

15 

m 

M 

m 

§§§ 

mm 



1957 

5 

mm 

16 

El 

ED 

m 


iWEl 



1958 

5 

8 

17 

m 

ED 

El 


wmzu 



1959 

5 

8 

18 

El 

a 

El 


9 



1960 

B 

8 

19 

El 

a 

a 


9 



1961 

5 

8 

20 

a 

u 

EH 


FEna 



1962 

mm 

8 

21 

El 

a 

El 


wmu 



1963 

5 

8 

22 

ED 

a 

m 


wwnrn 



1964 

B 

8 

23 

ed 

D 

ed 


1HE1 



1965 

5 

8 

24 

m 

D 

ID 


wmu 



1966 

mm 

ISI 

25 

El 

H 

m 


111 



1967 

B 

8 

26 

m 

D 

ED 


iera 



1968 

5 

8 

27 

El 

a 

ED 


wmu 



1969 

5 

8 

28 

ED 

n 

ED 


twm 



1970 

B! 

8 

29 

ED 

El 

ID 


wmu 



1971 


8 

30 

ED 

ED 

ED 

■i 

wmu 



1972 

Kl 

8 f 

31 

ED 

EH 

ED 

□ 

17/8 | 



1973 

mm\ 

“ 9 " 

32 

ED 

EDI 

ED 

■1 

wmu 



1974 

mm 

9 

33 

ED 

m\ 

ED 

■i 

wmu 



1975 

Hal 

rai 

34 

ED 

EDI 

El 

■i 

wmu 


MMHj 

■US' 

Bl 

_?_ 1 

■BHki 

iiar 

m 

iH 

IIILII 



. Figure 32-5 
Progressed Chart 
with Transits and Essences: 
Hal Allen 


Example: 
Hal Allen’s 
progressed 
chart 

Hal Allen’s 
delineation 
of Transits 
and Essence 





















































































552 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


AGE 15: 1956-1957 

THE DATA: 

A. 5 First Period on a 5 Life Path, 8 First Pinnacle. See com¬ 
plete description, page 513. 

B. 17/8 Essence, R, L, N Transits. 

In order of impact: 

Above average: 17/8 Essence 
Average: R, N Transits 
Below Average: L Transit 

C. Prepare for 13/4 Essence at age 17 and L L L Transits at 
ages 18 and 19. 

THE DELINEATION: 

LONG TERM CYCLES 

You're likely to be in an environment filled with 
activity/variety and uncertainty. Since you tend to 
jump from activity to activity and since your 
youth probably precludes a desire for accomplish¬ 
ment, you may be content enough with this state 
of affairs. You may be involved, even at your 
young age, in some sort of work, but I suspect it 
makes you feel restricted (5 First Period, 8 First 
Pinnacle ). 

GENERAL 

There are a lot of possibilities this year {No Essence 
dr Transit with very important or important impact). 
There may be some significant events with much 
drama and the possibility, too, of delays. Strong 
emotions are apt to need self-discipline for posi¬ 
tive results (R Transit ). There's likely to be the con¬ 
stant change and activity you like along with sud¬ 
den, unexpected, unusual or exciting happenings 
(JV Transit). Extravagant or self-indulgent actions 
may create difficulties (L Transit). 

PROFESSIONAL 

If you're working, there may be chances for ad¬ 
vancement. Your schoolwork may also hold oppor¬ 
tunities for advancement and improvement of 
your standing and reputation. (17/8 Essence. Since a 
fifteen year old’s primary work is usually school, the 
description of the Essence is extended to include that ac¬ 
tivity). Unique or unusual ideas may lead to more 
independence ( 17/8 Essence). Your work or school- 


Delineation: 
Age 15 






CHAPTER 32: THE TRANSITS, THE ESSENCE 


ing may involve humanitarian or philanthropic 
endeavors ( R Transit). 

FINANCIAL 

There's some chance of financial gain for you or 
your family, but finances may have a tendency to 
fluctuate ( 17/8 Essence, N Transit, extended, because 
of Hals age, to include his family ). 

TRAVEL 

There's a good chance of travel, possibly related 
to school or work activities (8 Essence, N and L 
Transits). 

PERSONAL 

This is probably a good yeanto enjoy both new 
friends and old, although your interest in freedom 
may bring separation from some old friends. (N 
and L Transits). There's even a chance for romance 
although it's likely to be sudden, unusual and 
short-lived (R and N Transits). There may be much 
pleasure and happiness at home (L Transit). 

PREPARATION FOR THE FUTURE 

You should be prepared for either some hard work 
and/or some feeling of restriction at age seventeen. 
At age eighteen and nineteen, if you're feeling in¬ 
dolent and selfish, you'll block opportunities for 
advancement {preparation for 1314 Essence at age 
seventeen, L L L at ages eighteen and nineteen). 

The delineation emphasizes the above average 17/8 Essence 
and the average R, N Transits with only a little comment on 
the below average L Transit. Since there is no outstanding im¬ 
pact, there is a rather diffused quality in the reading for this 
year. Hal may choose, if he so desires, to stress one or another 
of the possibilities open to him. 

Because of his youth, events related to marriage were omit¬ 
ted and events related to business were downplayed. Health 
wasn’t mentioned in the Essence or any of the Transits. 


AGE 25: 1966-1967 
THE DATA: 

A. 5 First Period on a 5 Life Path, 8 First Pinnacle. See com¬ 
plete description, page 513. 


Delineation: 
Age 25 





554 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


B. 19/1 Essence, N, I, E Transits. 

In order of impact: 

Very important: 19/1 Essence 
Above average: E-N Transit 
Average: I Transit 

C. Prepare for additional similar year at age 26 and 22/4 Es¬ 
sence at ages 27 and 28. 

THE DELINEATION: 

LONG TERM CYCLES 

You're likely to be in an environment filled with 
activity, variety and uncertainty. You may be 
learning to deal with your continued feeling of 
restlessness, your tendency to be erratic and your 
excessive physical appetites. You're likely to be in¬ 
volved in the business world and struggling with 
the restrictive and limiting effect on your free¬ 
wheeling nature. (5 First Period, 8 First Pinnacle. 
Note that the description is considerably different than 
at age fifteen.) 

GENERAL 

The years from your twenty-fourth to your twenty- 
seventh birthday form what could be an extremely 
important time in your life. There are opportuni¬ 
ties to achieve independence by changing existing 
limiting situations. The achievement of indepen¬ 
dence is likely to take a lot of effort and you may 
feel beset with obstacles and problems. You may 
have to struggle to learn the important lessons 
leading to development and growth ( 19/1 Essence). 

This period emphasizes beginnings, change and 
progress, the development of new ideas (I Essence). 
Be prepared for sudden, unexpected, unusual, 
and/or exciting events ( E and N Transits). Remem¬ 
ber that haste, impulsiveness and the scattering of 
energy may impede potential benefits [E-N Tran¬ 
sits). There's likely to be much drama in the impor¬ 
tant events, possibly delays to reckon with [I Tran¬ 
sit). Try to balance the strong emotions that are 
likely. Sensitivity, loving and giving will usually 
help; emotional confusion is apt to hinder progress 
{/ Transit). 





CHAPTER 32: THE TRANSITS , THE ESSENCE 


555 


PROFESSIONAL 

This three year period is a good time to develop or 
expand business interests. You may meet new 
business associates and you may find possibilities 
for increasing your status and having your abilities 
recognized (I Essence ). The business opportunities 
may relate to humanitarian or philanthropic en¬ 
deavors (/ Transit). 

PERSONAL 

You may find new friends in your life and you may 
feel the desire for freedom leading to separation 
from old friends [1 Essence, E, N Transits). There 
may be exciting, unusual, but ; probably short-lived 
romances [E, N Transits). Marriage may be close if 
unsettled areas have been resolved, but high emo¬ 
tions can cause problems. A sudden marriage or 
separation and a change of home is possible [E, N 
Transits). 

TRAVEL, FINANCIAL, HEALTH 

There's a possibility of travel although fluctuating 
finances may keep you on edge [E, N Transits). At¬ 
tend to matters of health, particularly when emo¬ 
tions are-running high [I Transit). 

PREPARATION FOR THE FUTURE 

You may want to prepare for the possibility of 
some extremely significant ventures and the ner¬ 
vous tension that goes with it at ages twenty-seven 
and twenty-eight [preparation for 22/4). 

The delineation stresses the very important 19/1 Essence and 
accompanying 1 Essence events by placing them at the begin¬ 
ning of the reading (the paragraphs related to General and Pro¬ 
fessional matters) and devoting the most space to them. The 
events described by the E, N and I Transits, with only above 
average or average impact, are condensed in a few short para¬ 
graphs. Although the events of the E, N and I Transits are 
similar to the events of the N and R Transits at age fifteen, 
the emphasis on the events in the two delineations is marked¬ 
ly different, primarily because of the extreme importance of 
the 19/1 Essence in the reading at age twenty-five. 






556 


PARTY: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


Delineation: AGE 35: 1976-1977 
Age 35 THE DATA: 

A. 3 Second Period on a 5 Life Path. 9 Second Pinnacle. See 

complete description, page 515. 

B. 9 Essence, A, W, L Transits 
In order of impact: 

Important: 9 Essence 
Above average: A Transit 
Average: W Transit 
Below average: L Transit 

C. Preparation isn’t necessary for the 17/8 Essence and R, W, 

L Transits at ages 36 through 38 since these years prob¬ 
ably don’t present any major difficulties. These years are 
not shown on the progressed.chart since it ends at age 35, 
but they can be calculated easily. 

THE DELINEATION: 

LONG TERM CYCLES 

You're likely to feel much drama and emotion in 
your life at this time. Your ability to act tolerantly 
and compassionately as you deal with opportuni¬ 
ties related to humanistic, philanthropic or artistic 
endeavors is likely to be important. There are the 
possibilities here, too, for much pleasure in social 
life/ travel, artistic pursuits and verbal activities 
r “ such as acting or writing (3 Second Period, 9 Second 

Pinnacle). 

GENERAL 

This year certainly seems to emphasize drama and 
emotion. There are likely to be significant events 
involving much feeling—the tolerance and com¬ 
passion necessary in this entire period will certain¬ 
ly be of importance now. This year may mark an 
important ending in your life, the end of a mean¬ 
ingful experience or close personal relation. (End¬ 
ings usually mean that someone moves or interests 
change, only occasionally does an ending mean 
death. The ending will probably give you more 
freedom, but that's probably not apparent at the 
time the ending occurs. The unexpectedness of the 
ending is liable to be unsettling, too (9 Essence). 
There may be a change in residence or in the work 
situation. There may be important decisions to 





CHAPTER 32: THE TRANSITS, THE ESSENCE 


557 


make with implications for the future (A Transit). 
There's likely to be much change and activity, 
punctuated by sudden, unexpected, unusual or ex¬ 
citing events (W Transit). Extravagance or self- 
indulgence will probably cause difficulties (L 
Transit). 

ROMANCE 

Highly emotional love affairs involving great con¬ 
fusion are possible (9 Essence). They may be sud¬ 
den, exciting and short-lived (W Transit), You may 
have to learn the difficult lesson that ultimate love 
doesn't restrict but rather supports freedom. The 
freedom involved may be your freedom or the 
freedom of the one you love (9 Essence). 

PROFESSIONAL 

Business opportunities may relate to humanitarian 
or philanthropic ventures (9 Essence). There may be 
business opportunities involving the creative tal¬ 
ents (L Transit) as well as new business contacts (A 
Transit). 

FRIENDSHIP, MARRIAGE, HOME/FAMILY, TRAVEL, 
HEALTH 

There's the possibility of new friends (A, W Tran¬ 
sits). There m^y be a feeling of restlessness about 
marriage (W Transit) but if emotions are balanced, 
there could be pleasure and happiness at home 
(W, L Transits). There's a good chance of travel (A, 
W, L Transits). Be sure to take care of your health 
{W Transit). 

This delineation emphasizes the important impact of the 9 
Essence, uses the above average A and average W Transits as 
back-up and mentions only a little about the below average L 
Transit. The paragraphs related to general, romantic and pro¬ 
fessional matters, all stressed by the 9 Essence, make up three- 
quarters of the reading. 


Hal, at fifteen, may advance in school or on his job, or may, 
through lack of effort, show little movement at all. At age 
twenty-five, he may break through to a new level of indepen¬ 
dence, significantly changing the direction of his life—or, he 





558 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


may make some changes in his dependent relationships, pro¬ 
gressing slightly—or, he may not change at all or may even 
move backwards. He may, at age thirty-five, learn to handle 
his feelings well and understand the relation between love and 
freedom, or he may negate the potential and become mired in 
emotional confusion. 

The subject's free will is the ultimate determinant of the use 
made of the events that transpire and, therefore, the actual im¬ 
pact made on the life. 


CHAPTER 33: MEDIUM TERM CYCLES: SYNTHESIS 


559 


CHAPTER 33 

MEDIUM TERM CYCLES, PART 3: 
THE SYNTHESIS 


By synthesizing the medium term cycles—the Universal 
Year, the Personal Year, the Epicycle, the Essence and the 
Transits—we delineate the probable events or trend of events 
and the approach to them most likely to lead to growth and 
development. In addition to a reading for the current year, I 
often discuss some of the previous years if it’s of interest to the 
subject. I rarely read more than one or two years ahead in 
detail. Although •'•you can describe the probable events and 
desirable approach even ten or twenty years ahead, the actual 
approach is heavily dependent on the progress to that date. A 
detailed reading too far into the future has little meaning. 


In the synthesis, a number of points must be kept in mind: 


DELINEATE THE MEDIUM TERM CYCLES IN RELA¬ 
TION TO THE LONG TERM CYCLES 

The long term cycles don’t directly influence the medium 
term cycles, but they do indicate probable broad directions of 
growth. The Period and Pinnacle are of some significance in 
the years when important changes may be expected—the 1, 5 
and 9 Personal Years—or when promising activity is likely—the 
3, 4, 8 and 22 Personal Years. In those years, an awareness of 
the background tone may be helpful in distinguishing favorable 


Relating 
medium term 
cycles and 
long term 
cycles 



Relating 
current year 
to Epicycle 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


opportunities. In the receptive years—the 2, 6, 7 and 11 Per¬ 
sonal Years—there are apt to be more in the way of detours or 
wanderings and the long term cycles are of less interest. Begin 
the progressed delineation with a description of the long term 
cycles to set the stage for the more specific medium term cycles. 


DELINEATE THE CURRENT YEAR IN RELATION TO 
THE EPICYCLE. 

The Epicycle is a nine year repeating cycle of the Personal 
Years. Although the Essence and Transits don’t usually repeat a 
pattern in the same way that the Personal Years do, their in¬ 
fluence is also an important part of the Epicycle. The addition 
of the probable trend of events adds dimension to the descrip¬ 
tion of the Epicycle. 

Let’s look at a couple of Hal Allen’s Epicycles (Figure 33-1 on 
page 561). We’ve circled the Essence and Transits that take 
precedence each year and, for the purpose of this discussion, 
we’ll ignore the other Essences and Transits. 

The first Epicycle we will examine runs from 1964 through 
1972. This Epicycle is the end of both Hal’s 5 First Period and 8 
First Pinnacle. Hal’s lessons relating to freedom and his relation 
to the business world will probably provide the background 
tone. 

The Epicycle starts with a 1 and 2 Personal Year stressing the 
17/8 Essence and the N and I Transits—the emphasis here is on 
the excitement and emotions related to business. There are three 
19/1 Essences in a row at age twenty-four through twenty- 
six—possibilities here for achieving more independence. 
Following are two 22/4 Essences at ages twenty-seven and 
twenty-eight. Because of Hal’s energies, I’d expect the years to 
stress the 4 potential of work and limitation with some 22 ner¬ 
vous tension and a small possibility of 22 significant ventures. A 
14/5 Essence is next with its emphasis on using freedom. The 
Epicycle closes with a 17/8 Essence and an N Transit—excite¬ 
ment related to business. 

This Epicycle, which could be considered marking the end of 
Hal’s formative years, flows from business emphasis at the 
beginning to business emphasis at the end, with time to explore 
independence, hard work and freedom in between. Gan you 
see that the business years at the end of the Epicycle are likely 
to be significantly different than the business years at the begin¬ 
ning because of the explorations in the middle years? 

Hal’s Epicycle from 1982 through 1990 has a somewhat dif¬ 
ferent flow. This Epicycle covers his 8 Second Pinnacle with its 



561 


CHAPTER 33: MEDIUM TERM CYCLES: SYNTHESIS 


business emphasis. The R, I Transits open the period—emo¬ 
tions are likely to run high. Then, four years of a 23/5 
Essence—exploring freedom—are followed by three years of a 
17/8 Essence with accompanying I, E or I, N Tran- 
sits—business emphasis with excitement and emotions. The 
Epicycle ends with a 9 Essence—drama, emotion, comple¬ 
tion—and a 13/4 Essence—work and limitation. I get the sense 
here of delight in freedom at the beginning of the period 
(although there are the emotional R and I Transits along with 
the 23/5 Essence), then a commitment to business interests 
followed by drama and feelings of limitation. I suspect that Hal 
may still be struggling to balance his free-wheeling approach 
with the need to earn a living. 


HARLAN WILLIAM ALLEN 
MAY 12, 1941 


Age 

Medium Term 

Year 

Long Term 

— 

Essence 

Personal 

Year 

Universal 

Year 


H 

Pinnacle 

5 

6 


5 

8 

0 

□ 

ca 

a 


iEHil 

6 

7 

1942 

5 

mm 

1 

ED 

ssa 

E3 


■EMI 

7 

8 

1943 

5 

8 

2 

ED 

E3 

EH 


m 

_8 — 

-Q_ 

ICLAjt 

K- 




40 


41 


42 


43 


44 


45 


46 


47 


48 


49 


21/3 


3/S 


3 It 


33/S 


siiujia 
iUKH 
□DU 
□DP 
QE1B 
□DP 

mmm 

mtom 
esbed 
□QP 


li£ 


11/2 


22/4 


1981 


1982 


1983 


1984 


1985 


1986 


1987 


1988 


1989 


1990 


jm 


Figure 33-1 
Progressed Chart: 
Hal Allen 
































































562 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


As you can see, reading the current year as part of the Epi¬ 
cycle flow rather than as an isolated year can dramatically con¬ 
nect significant periods of the life. 


Relating 
Personal 
Year, Essence 
and Transits 


THE PERSONAL YEAR ALONG WITH THE ESSENCE 
AND/OR TRANSITS ARE REQUIRED FOR EACH YEAR’S 
DESCRIPTION. 

You need the Personal Year to determine the desirable ap¬ 
proach. You need the Essence and/or Transits to determine the 
probable trend of events. Some years seem governed more by 
one cycle than the others but all should be mentioned. (Strictly 
speaking, an occasional Essence or Transit is of little significance 
in a given year and can be omitted, but, at least one Transit or 
Essence should be included in any year’s description). 

The Personal Years can be rated for relative impact in a man¬ 
ner similar to the rating of the Essence and Transits in Chapter 
32. The 1, 5, 8, 9, 11 and 22 Personal Years have an important 
impact, the 4 and 6 Personal Years have an above average im¬ 
pact, and the 2, 3 and 7 Personal Years have an average im¬ 
pact. Remember, that these ratings are only for the purpose of 
determining the precedence of the various cycles in order to 
proceed with the delineation. 

The following chart summarizes the impacts of the Personal 
Year, Essence and Transits: 


.r ; .•> 


RELATIVE 

Relative ,MPACT 

PERSONAL 

YEAR 

ESSENCE 

TRANSITS 

impact Very important 

chart 

— 

19/1,13/4, 

14/5,16/7 

— 

Important 

1,5,8,9,11,22 

1,5,9,11,22 

Multiple or double 
A,J,S; E,N,W; I,R 

Above average 

4,6 

4,6,8 

Multiple or double 1,5,9 
modifier numbers; 

Below average Transits 
repeated more than 
twice; 

A 

Average 

2,3,7 

— 

Below average Transits 
repeated twice; 

J,S; E,N,W; I,R 

Below average 

— 

2,3,7 

The rest of the Transits 


CHAPTER 33: MEDIUM TERM CYCLES: SYNTHESIS 


563 


Look at Hal’s progressed chart (Figure 33-1) on page 561 
along with the relative impact chart. 

In 1964, the important 1 Personal Year is likely to take 
precedence over the above average 8 Essence, the average N 
and I Transits and the below average L Transit. 

In 1966, the very important 19/1 Essence is likely to take 
precedence over the average 3 Personal Year and average N, I, 
E Transits. 

In 1968, the very important 19/1 Essence, the important 22 
Essence and the important 5 Personal Year are all likely to in¬ 
fluence the year strongly. 

All the years aren’t equal in intensity or meaning for the life, 
but all years may make important contributions to the ex¬ 
periences necessary for the subject’s development. 


WHEN THE PERSONAL YEAR AND THE ESSENCE ARE 
THE SAME NUMBER, THERE’S AN OVERBALANCE OF 
ENERGY LEADING TO OBSTACLES AND PROBLEMS. 

On Hal Allen’s chart (Figure 33-2 on page 564), we’ve drawn 
a circle around the doubled number periods. It’s the single 
digits we’re concerned with, not the number behind the digit. 
In 1947, the 11/2 Personal Year is opposed by the 20/2 Essence. 
It’s the 2-2 that creates problems. Similarly, a 22/4 Personal 
Year and a 13/4 Essence would indicate 4*4 difficulties. Infre¬ 
quently, an 11/2 Personal Year_combines with an 11/2 Essence, 
describing ll-lland 2*2 problems. Or, just as infrequently, a 
22/4 Personal Year and 22/4 Essence indicates 22*22 and 4*4 
obstacles. 

Because the Personal Year extends from January 1 to Decem¬ 
ber 31 and the Essence from birthday to birthday, the problem 
period is usually only from January 1 to the birthday or from 
the birthday to December 31. In Hal’s chart, the latter case is 
shown in 1941, 1950, 1958, and 1971. Sometimes, the conflict 
extends for the entire year as in 1943 and 1947. 

Turn to chart 17: the essence, page 738. The bottom row 
of the chart describes the potential problem period with 
repeated numbers as well as some approaches to alleviate the 
difficulties. These periods, though usually short, require a 
substantial effort to work through. 


When 

Personal Year 
and Essence 
are the same 
number 


WHEN THE PERSONAL YEAR HAS ENERGIES SIMILAR 
TO THE ESSENCE AND/OR TRANSITS, THE PERIOD IS 
LIKELY TO HAVE A POSITIVE DIRECTION. WHEN 





564 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


When 
Personal Year 
has energies 
similar to or 
conflicting 
with Essence 
and/or 
Transits 


THERE’S A CONFLICT BETWEEN THE ENERGIES OF 
THE PERSONAL YEAR AND THE ENERGIES OF THE 
ESSENCE AND/OR TRANSITS, THE PERIOD IS LIKELY 
TO HAVE A DIFFICULT OR CONFUSING DIRECTION. 

A 1 Personal Year approach probably can help with events 
described by an 8 Essence or an A Transit. A 6 Personal Year 
and a 2 Essence or F Transit are usually compatible as is a 3 
Personal Year, a 5 Essence and an E or N Transit. 

But a 6 Personal Year with a 5 Essence or W Transit or a 7 


HARLAN WILLIAM ALLEN 
MAY 12, 1941 


Age 

Medium Term 


1 Long Term 

Transits 


Personal 

Year 

Univarsa 

Year 


Period 

pinnacle 



mm 


1941 



0 

E3 

E5 

n 


m 


m 

'.Tj 



1942 



1 

E 

E5 

ED 


\m 

mm 


1943 



2 

E 

CS 

□ 


\m 


XH 


1944 



3 

E 

ESS 

ED 


IEEB 

’ DEDi^^H 


1945 



4 

E 

ESS 

ED 


IftJirJ 


5 

ED 

D 

D 


WMrM 



1946 



US! 

bh 

1947 



6 

E 

D 

ED 





. 1948 



7 

ID 

D 

ED 


ram 

v) 

4 


1949 



8 

a 

D 

ID 



mm 


1950 



9 

EH 

D 

ED 


rare1 



1951 



10 

□ 

D 

ED 


ram 

b 

7 


1952 



11 

□ 

D 

ED 


wmm 

8 


1953 



12 

□ 

D 

ED 


ram 

9 


1954 



13 

O 

n 

13 


ram 

1 





- 14 

ED 

ED 

13 



llrpi 


1956 



15 

□ 

ED 

13 


17/8 

mm 


1957 



16 

O 

ED 

E3 


EEZE9 

3> 


1958 



17 

ED 

ED 

El 


tSLM 

-'5 


1959 



18 

ED 

ED 

ED 


9 

6 


1960 



J—• 

CO 

ED 

ED 

ED 


9 

7 


1961 



20 

ID 

u 

ED 


ram 

21 

El 

a 

ID 


tsa 

8 


1962 



9 


1963 



22 

m 

a 

ED 


■WEI 

1 


1964 



23 

m 

a 

ED 


llrlfcl 

EHEl 


1965 



24 

13 

D 

ID 


ram 

25 

□ 

D 

ED 



KB 


1966 



4 


1967 



26 

13 

El 

ED 


ibTil 

h-f- 


1968 



27 

EDI 

a 

ED 


ram 

28 

EDI 

a 

ED 


iMl 

6 


1969 



7 


1970 



29 

EDI 

El 

E3 


wzmm 

B9 


1971 



30 

EDI 


ESI 


HEftl 

•^9 


1972 



31 

EDI 

rci 

13 


EES 


■Jl i 

1 


1973 



32 

EDI 

m 

EDI 


|HI 

m 

i«l 

iron 


1974 



33 

EDI 

ESI 

EDI 


EEC 

m 


Kfll 


1975 



34 

EDI 

ESI 

Ell 

1 

e m 


IX 

uj 


1976 



35 

131 

m 

EDI 

□ 

■ 

iW 




Figure 33-2 
Progressed Chart 

with Same Essence and Personal Year Noted: 
Hal Allen 














































































CHAPTER 33: MEDIUM TERM CYCLES: SYNTHESIS 


565 


Personal Year with an 8 Essence or H Transit—these often spell 
problems and conflicts. The individual is likely to be pulled 
from one energy to the other, struggling to find a comfortable 
balance. Sometimes, the attempt is made to avoid one energy 
completely; the negated potential usually continues to surface 
no matter what attempts are made to suppress it. Occasionally, 
balance can be reached by using the energies alternately. This 
presents difficulties, too, but it is sometimes the best that can 
be managed under trying circumstances. 

In Hal’s chart (Figure 33-2 on page 564) the 1 Personal Year 
and the 17/8 Essence of 1964 and 1973 present favorable 
possibilities. The N Transit, although not as strong, can help in 
both years, but the I Transit in 1964 may be a nuisance. 

1965, on the other hand, presents a conflicting potential. In 
the first part of the year, the 11/2 Personal Year emphasizes il¬ 
lumination, waiting and cooperation, while the 17/8 Essence 
emphasizes advancement in the business community. (The N, 
I, L Transits are weaker than the Personal Year and the 
Essence and are ignored for this discussion.) Even omitting the 
11 stress on potential illumination doesn’t seem to alleviate the 
difficulties. Hal’s chart indicates that he must work at waiting 
and cooperating to take advantage of business opportunities. 
Surprisingly enough, there usually is some combination of 
events and approach which does fit the description for the year 
and, as unusual as it may be, holds out the best potential. Hal, 
for instance, might find a business venture requiring his skill in 
dealing with a number of difficult employees. His ability to 
wait and cooperate in this situation may lead to advancement 
in the business. 

The last part of 1965, with its 2 Personal Year (we’re ignor¬ 
ing the 11) and the 19/1 Essence (we’re also ignoring the 
weaker Transits), presents other complications. Hal must wait 
and cooperate in order to break down old conditions to achieve 
more independence for himself. It seems strange that waiting 
and cooperating will bring more independence, but if Hal can 
identify the opportunity and use the approach he will un¬ 
doubtedly benefit. Conflicting energies usually can be resolved 
into positive potentials, but they take significantly more 
energy, of course, than the favorable configurations. 


THE SUBJECT’S POTENTIALS MAY BE IMPORTANT 
MODIFIERS OF THE MEDIUM TERM CYCLES. 

The potentials from the birthdate, birthname and current 
name(s)—the core elements, Karmic Debts, Karmic Lessons, 
Challenge and other strong modifiers—define the subject’s 


Relating 
subject’s 
potentials 
and medium 
term cycles 




5 66 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


ability to enhance, deflect or mute the approach described b> 
the Personal Year, as was mentioned in Chapter 31. The poten¬ 
tials don’t modify the events or trend of events described by the 
Essence and Transits. But the potentials do modify the subject’s 
ability to deal with the events, so the modifying effect is impor¬ 
tant in the synthesis. 

If a significant energy has the same modifier number as the 
Personal Year, the Essence or any of the Transits, it’s especially 
likely to make its effect felt. Be sure the delineation reflects 
these as well as any other strong applicable modifiers. 


Calculation 
short cut for 
progressed 
chart 


If you’re doing a reading for a person who is twenty or thirty 
years old, it’s relatively easy to complete the progressed chart. 
If, instead, the subject is fifty or sixty, there’s a lot of work to 
calculate the Essence and Transits, and most of the calculation 
won’t even be used for the reading. We can use a short cut in¬ 
stead. 

As an example, we’re planning to do a delineation for Hal 
Allen for 1993, the year when he turns 52. We need the data for 
the Epicycle which includes 1993. No matter where the year is 
in the Epicycle, we always want to be able to see the data for at 
least four or five years before and four or five years after so the 
flow is apparent. We need, then, a progressed chart from about 
age 47 (five years before age 52) to about 1998 (five years after 
age 52). We’ll extend it to the year 2000 because, as we’ll see, 
that will be required to complete the Epicycle. 

We know, from the calculation for the Expression, that the 
first name Harlan has a 27 year Transit, which means it lasts 
from Harlan’s birth (age 0) to his 26th year. The second Transit 
of Harlan ends at his 53rd year. (First Transit + second Tran¬ 
sit = 26 4- 27 = 53.) This means that the last N of Harlan’s 
second Transit is opposite the 53 in the age column. We can 
then start at age 53, figure the Transits of Harlan to age 58. We 
can also go backwards from age 53 to age 47—five years of N 
from the end of Harlan, then one year of A, then the L Transit. 

The progressed chart and the calculation would now look like 
Figure 33-3 on page 567. 

We calculate the middle name in a similar manner. The first 
Transit of William lasts 34 years, to age 33. The second Transit 
ends at age 67 (33 + 34). That’s way past age 58 which is as 
far as we have to go for the Epicycle in which we’re interested. 

Instead of adding the first and second Transits, we’ll add the 
Transits of the individual letters to the first Transit of William 
until we’re up to or past age 47 to get our starting point. The 
first Transit of William plus W and I gets us precisely up to age 
47. We then go forward up to age 58. 















































568 


PART V; PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


The progressed chart and the calculation for William would 
look like Figure 33-4 on page 569. 

The progressed chart and the calculations for the last name 
Allen would look like Figure 33-5 on page 570. 

We complete the data we need by filling in the Periods, Pin¬ 
nacles, Universal Year, Personal Year and Essence for the 
period from age 47 to 58 (Figure 33-6 on page 571). I always 
shade in the year of the reading, to more easily distinguish it 
from the other years. Here, 1993 is shaded. The shaded area for 
1993 includes the last half of age 51 and the first half of age 52. 

Now, we’re ready to do the delineations. 


Delineation 
description 
of medium 
term cycles 


A delineation synthesizing the medium term cycles includes 

the following: 

A. An awareness of the long term cycles. 

B. An awareness of the Epicycle. 

C. A description of the desirable approach (Personal Year and, 
to a small extent, the Universal Year) to the probable events 
or trend of events (Essence and Transits), modified as 
necessary by the subject’s potentials (core elements and 
strong modifiers). 

D. Preparation for any of the next three or four years which 
are likely to present difficulties. 


Since some of the medium term cycles run from January 1 to 
December 31 and others from birthday to birthday, be sure the 
dates of the various periods under discussion are clearly in¬ 
dicated in the reading. 


Hal Allen S Here’s Hal Allen’s delineation for 1993 based on the steps just 
delineation outlined. The delineation is written in the present tense. We’re 
of medium assum i n g h® re that Hal’s birthname is also his current 
term cycles' name —there are no additional energies from new names. 

1993 


THE DATA: 

A. Long term cycles 

3 Second Period on a 5 Life Path 
11/2 Fourth Pinnacle 

B. Epicycles 

Third and last Epicycle of the 3 Second Cycle 
First Epicycle of the 11/2 Fourth Pinnacle 





CHAPTER 


Starting 

Point 


33: MEDIUM TERM CYCLES: SYNTHESIS 


HARLAN WILLIAM ALLEN 
MAY 12, 1941 


Age 

MBdlum Term 1 

. Year 




Transits 

Essence 

Personal 

Year 

Jniversal 

Year 


Period 

Pinnacle 








1941 



0 















_ 











_ 






















_ 











_ 








■ 

■ 

’ 

— 







-47- 

a 

El 






1989 



48 


a 

_ 

_ 




1990 



49 


E9 






1991 



50 


19 






1992 



51 


19 


_ 




1993 



52 


E9 


_ 




1994 



53 


E9 






1995 



54 


a 

1— 

_ 




1996 



55 


i 

_ 

_ 




1997 



56 


i 





, 

1998 



57 


i 


_ 

• ■ 



1999 



58 


i 






2000 

















_ 

_ 

_ 










_ 




































































- • 









_ 











_ 
























. 











. 











. 











. 









E 


J - - - 





William, first Transit: 
William, second Transit: 

34 - 1 = 33 

+ 34 

67 

William, first Transit: 
William, second Transit: 

34 - 1 = 33 

W = + _5 

38 


! = + _9 
47 


Figure 33-4 
Progressed Chart 

with Short Cut for Transit of Middle Name: 
Hal Allen 



































570 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


Starting 

Point 


HARLAN WILLIAM ALLEN 
MAY 12, 1941 




| Medium Term 

Year 

I Long Term 1 

Transits 

Essence 

Persona 

Year 

Universa 

Year 


Period 

Pinnacle 




T“ 





1941 





. 

— 

■ — 











■ — 











“— 











— 








— 



— 











— 







47 



IE3 








48 



Id 





1989 



49 



Id 





1990 



■an 

_ 

_ ^ 

Id 





1991 




51 

— 

— 

a 





1992 



52 



a 





1993 



53 ! 


— 

Q 





1994 



54 


' 

a 





1995 



55 



a 

— 




1996 



56 



a 

— 




1997 



57 



a 

1 




1998 



58 



□ 

—■ 




1999 




' - 



— 




2000 


























" 



— 

































— 

— 
























— 










— 

— 

—■ 












— 











— 

— 
























— 

— 












— 












— 










z 










Allen, first Transit: 

17 - 1 = 16 

Allen, second Transit: 

+ 17 


33 

Allen, third Transit: 

+ 17 


50 


Figure 33-5 
Progressed Chart 

with Short Cut for Transit of Last Name: 
Hal Allen 







































CHAPTER 33: MEDIUM TERM CYCLES: SYNTHESIS 


HARLAN WILLIAM ALLEN 
MAY 12, 1941 



Medium Term 



laniai 

E9E9BII 

B8IB —■— iw 
S D nB^DOB9BIBa 

ElHHBEiai 
EiniiHEiia! 

mum 



Figure 33-6 

Partial Progressed Chart: 
Hal Allen 












































572 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


c. 


Medium term cycles 

Essence and Transits, in order of impact, 
with applicable potentials: 


January 1 
to 

May 11 


Important: 9 Essence 

(9 Soul Urge, 9 Growth Number) 
Above average: A Transit 
< (four l’s Intensity Point, 1 

Challenge) 

Average: N Transit 

(5 Life Path, 14/5 Karmic Debt, 5'5 
energy) 

Below average: L Transit 

(3 Birthday, five 3’s Intensity Point, 
k 3 Prime Intensified 


/ 


May 12 

to i 

December 31 I 


\ 


Important: 11/2 Essence 

(11/2 Maturity Number, 2 Karmic 
Lesson) 

Average: L-L Transit 

(3 Birthday, five 3’s Intensity Point, 
3 Prime Intensified 
Average: N Transit 

(5 Life Path, 14/5 Karmic Debt, 5-5 
energy) 


Personal Year, with applicable poten¬ 
tials: 

Average: 3 Personal Year 

(3 Birthday, five 3’s Intensity Point, 
3 Prime Intensified 
22/4 Universal Year 

D. Preparation 

11/2 Essence continues to 54th birthday in 1995. 


1993 

THE DELINEATION: 

LONG TERM CYCLES 

You're likely to be in an environment where sen¬ 
sitivity and receptivity are highly regarded. You'll 
probably prefer to work with others rather than 
alone but you may have to get used to a compara¬ 
tive lack of recognition. A harmonious working en- 




CHAPTER 33: MEDIUM TERM CYCLES: SYNTHESIS 


573 


vironment is possible [2 Fourth Pinnacle). You may 
retire or partially retire at a comparatively young 
age. {11/2 Fourth Pinnacle. The Fourth Pinnacle starts 
at age 49, therefore the comment about the compara¬ 
tively young age.) 

There's apt to be emphasis on friendship, much ac¬ 
tivity, social life, possibly travel. Be careful not to 
scatter your energy or to act capriciously or self- 
indulgently [3 Second Period on the 5 Life Path). At 
more serious times, you may be seeking illumina¬ 
tion through philosophic, religious or metaphysi¬ 
cal studies. [11 Fourth Pinnacle. This Pinnacle is only 
briefly mentioned because Hal has little energy to invest 
in this potential.) Perhaps with your earlier restless¬ 
ness tamed, a flowering of your loving responsible 
side now may provide much beauty in life (A com¬ 
parison of the current long term cycles with earlier 
ones). 


EPICYCLE 

You're in a period of your life now—from 1991 
through 1999—where there can be much pleasure 
and beauty ( last Epicycle of the 3 Second Period) 
along with the development of your sensitivity and 
spiritual awareness [first Epicycle of the 11/2 Fourth 
Pinnacle). The first few years of this period may 
have presented difficulties. You may have been 
working on combining your free-wheeling energy 
with your loving, giving potential in a balanced 
manner without feeling repressed and limited [13/4 
Essence at age 49 and 50 conflicting with the strong 5 
and 6 energy). At age 51, there's the potential for 
completion, possibly in some dramatic fashion. 
This could be the ending of a job or relation, the 
ending of some feelings about work, restriction or 
freedom. We'll discuss this year in more detail 
shortly (9 Essence at age 51). There's the possibility 
of a turning point, perhaps some spiritual illumina¬ 
tion at ages 52 and 53 [11/2 Essence). These years 
are followed by four years with the likelihood of 
cooperation and patient work, four years possibly 




574 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


used to assimilate the drama and awareness of the 
prior years (20/2 Essence from age 54 through 57). 
There's probably a renewed emphasis on work as 
the period ends, possibly a new, significant ven¬ 
ture or a new way of looking at the work to be ac¬ 
complished ( 22/4 Essence at age 58 and beyond). The 
period from 1991 through 1999, as you can see, 
holds much potential promise. 1993 may prove to 
be one of the more dramatic years of the period. 


JANUARY 1, 1993 TO MAY 11, 1993 

ESSENCE, TRANSITS AND PERSONAL YEAR 

GENERAL 

The beginning of 1993, to about the middle of 
May, is likely to be more dramatic and emotional 
than the rest of the year (9 Essence to May 11; 11/2 
Essence after). Your ability to act with tolerance 
and compassion as you deal with significant 
events will be important—the more you can give 
of affection, love, understanding and sympathy, 
themoreyou can grow (9 Essence with 9 Soul Urge, 9 
Growth Number). There may be important changes 
to deal with —possibly a change of residence or 
job —and an important decision to make with im¬ 
plications for the future (A Transit). Don't let self- 
centeredness or lack of flexibility impede your 
progress {four Us Intensity Point). I expect your 
willpower can help now, as long as you don't use it 
to dominate others [1 Challenge). You may en¬ 
counter sudden, unexpected, unusual or exciting 
events this year—if you're adaptable and enthusi¬ 
astic rather than restless and impatient, there's 
likely to be forward progress (N Transit with 5 Life 
Path, 14/5 Karmic Debt, 5*5 energy). 

The beginning of the year may mark some comple¬ 
tions in your life. This usually means that a close 
personal relation moves or interests change; only 
occasionally does completion mean death. The 
ending will usually give you more freedom, but 
that's not likely to be apparent at the time the end- 






CHAPTER 33: MEDIUM TERM CYCLES: SYNTHESIS 


575 


ing occurs. The unexpectedness of the completion 
is liable to be unsettling (9 Essence). In these situa¬ 
tions and other emotional situations in which 
you're involved, try to handle your feelings con¬ 
structively (3 Personal Year). You're likely to be 
brimming with feeling and very sensitive ( 12/3 
Birthday). Try not to scatter your energies (3 Per¬ 
sonal Year with five 3 s Intensity Point). When appro¬ 
priate, enjoy the satisfaction and accomplishments 
of bringing objects to a satisfactory conclusion (3 
Personal Year). 

FRIENDSHIP 

This is likely to be a good time to make new 
friends and renew relations, with old friends. A 
desire for freedom, though, may bring breaks in 
old relationships (A, N, L Transits). The positive ex¬ 
periences with friends may be one of the avenues 
for experiencing happiness and expressing the joy 
of living. Approach your experiences this year, as 
much as possible, with joy, cheer and enthusiasm. 
Entertain, socialize, delight in those times when 
you can enjoy yourself, but don't indulge only in 
superficial or capricious activities. Avoid self- 
indulgence or extravagance (3 Personal Year). At 
times when you want to play and enjoy yourself, 
don't be surprised to find others bogged down in 
work and responsibility ( conflict between 3 Personal 
Year and 22/4 Universal Year). 

ROMANCE, MARRIAGE 

At the beginning of the year, romances are apt to 
be far more difficult than friendships. They're like¬ 
ly to be highly emotional and confusing. You may 
have to learn the usually painful lesson that 
ultimate love doesn't restrict, but rather supports 
freedom (9 Essence). Love affairs may prove to be 
sudden, unusual and short lived. Marriage prob¬ 
ably has its rough spots. Unbalanced emotions are 
likely to cause problems (iV Transit). 

PROFESSIONAL 

There may be some involvement with business 
ventures related to humanitarian or philanthropic 






576 


PART Y: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


endeavors. These may be opportunities to use your 
creative abilities (9Essence). Concentrate on oppor¬ 
tunities for self-improvement, particularly along 
the line of your strong artistic talents. Use your 
ideas, intuition, strong imagination, inspiration 
and vitality. Advancement and some recognition is 
possible. Emphasize particularly your superior ver¬ 
bal ability —use it in acting, singing or writing (3 
Personal Year with 3 Birthday, five 3’s Intensity Point 
and 3 Prime Intensifier). New business contacts may 
help with your creative advance (A Transit, 3 
Personal Year). 

MISCELLANEOUS 

There's a good possibility of some travel (A, N, L 
Transits), although your finances may be subject to 
fluctuation [N Transit). There should be some 
pleasure and happiness to be found in the home 
life, although this may be difficult to maintain 
with all the high emotions (L Transit, 9 Essence). 


MAY 12, 1993 TO DECEMBER 31, 1993 
ESSENCE, TRANSITS AND PERSONAL YEAR 
GENERAL 

The last part of 1993, from about the middle of 
May to the end of December, will probably feel 
somewhat different than the first part of the year. 
There's probably less drama now, and while the 
emotions may still be running high, you're apt to 
be somewhat more sensitive and able to handle 
the feelings better (9 Essence to May 11; 11/2 Essence 
after). From this time up to your 54th birthday, you 
may receive some new awareness of great impor¬ 
tance which will support the development of faith 
and inner peace. This new understanding may 
have a profound effect on the entire life, although 
it's likely to take time for the changes to develop 
[11 Essence and preparation for coming years). You're 
probably more understanding now of the kind of 
spiritual or non-material awareness I'm talking 
about, but, unless you've developed this side of 



CHAPTER 33: MEDIUM TERM CYCLES: SYNTHESIS 


■577 


yourself, you may not be aware of the new pos¬ 
sibilities [11 Maturity Number, no other 11 energy). 
That heightened sensitivity, as I mentioned, 
may be helpful in dealing with emotions and may 
attract new friends who are appreciative of the 
sensitivity. Be careful that this sensitiveness 
doesn't cause problems and misunderstandings. 
When faced with an emotional situation, deal with 
it directly rather than sidestepping it {11/2 Essence 
with 6 Expression, 9 Soul Urge). There's apt to be 
some nervous tension which may affect your abili¬ 
ty to express your feelings with clarity {11 Essence 
with 11 Maturity Number). 

Starting at this time and extending until your 58th 
birthday, is a period in which there's likely to be an 
emphasis on patience and cooperation. You may 
be working as part of a group to satisfy mutual 
needs or you may be helping others with their 
needs. There's likely to be some details that must 
be carefully completed. I expect, at this age, that 
you've developed the ability to be patient, tactful 
and concerned with details {2 Essence with 2 Karmic 
Lesson). The loving, giving, responsible side of your 
character can be of much help working with others 
(6 Expression, 9 Soul Urge). 

PROFESSIONAL 

These same years—to your 58th birthday—may be 
involved with the development of associations. 
Developments of almost any kind are likely to 
take longer than first expected. Delays and tem¬ 
porary stoppages are apt to prove frustrating, but 
they may actually improve the ultimate timing 
needed for reaching your goals {2 Essence). You 
may be able to advance by developing your 
talents in some creative enterprise. You are strong 
in creative ability and imagination and this is a 
time to use these talents, possibly achieve recogni¬ 
tion. By all means, use your fine verbal capabil¬ 
ities (3 Personal Year, L Transit with 3 Birthday, five 
3’s Intensity Point, 3 Prime Intensifier). If, particularly 
in the next two years, you tend to be indolent or 
selfish, these characteristics are likely to interfere 
with advancement possibilities {L-L Transit). 








578 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


FRIENDSHIP, ROMANCE, MARRIAGE, HOME, FAMILY 

Friendships are likely to be important just as they 
were in the first part of the year (L, N Transits). 
Romances may still tend to be sudden, unusual 
and short lived, but they are likely to be con¬ 
siderably more pleasurable than at the beginning 
of the year (L, N Transits; ending of difficult 9 
Essence). Marriage may still have its difficulties 
unless the emotions are well-balanced (N Transit). 
There can be much pleasure at home and with the 
family. Honestly expressed feelings will probably 
bring added understandings (L Transit). Your per¬ 
sonal life, in the last half of the year, may be a 
source of pleasure and happiness, a place to par¬ 
ticularly express the joy of living. An active social 
life and entertainment may prove sources of 
pleasure. Be sure not to indulge only in superficial 
or capricious activities. Be there for others, par¬ 
ticularly with your vibrance and vitality (3 Personal 
Year). 

MISCELLANEOUS 

There's still possibilities for travel ( N, L Transit) 
although your finances may still be fluctuating (N 
Transit). You may experience lowered energy and 
vitality the last half of the year, so be sure to take 
care of your health ( 2 Essence). 


I think you can see how important it is to indicate the 
relative priorities of the many events and approaches described. 
The subject’s abilities and traits play a large part in the delinea¬ 
tion, too, more, I think, than was apparent in the partial 
readings in the previous chapters. I used Hal’s organization 
sheet for reference during the preparation of this reading to re¬ 
mind myself of his various applicable capabilities. 

Many years, like Hal’s 1993, have two distinct parts. Others, 
like Hal’s 1994, 1996, 1997 and 1998 will be all of a piece, with 
the same Personal Year, Essence and Transits applying for the 
entire year. When the year is divided, distinguish which events 
carry through for the whole year, which occur only a portion of 
the time. 

Often, events continue past the end of the year under con¬ 
sideration. In the delineation we’ve been studying, the 11/2 



CHAPTER 33: MEDIUM TERM CYCLES: SYNTHESIS 


579 


Essence and the N and LL Transits all continue another year 
and a half past the end of 1993. 

Events described by a given Essence or Transit can occur at 
any time while it’s in effect. The special awareness of the 11/2 
Essence, for example, can occur anytime within a two year 
period. Even though we’re reading for 1993, that awareness 
may not occur until 1995. The period of the Essence or Transit 
must be given so that the time when certain events may occur is 
understood. 

Be sure that the time span of each Essence and Transit is 
clear, particularly the starting and ending dates within the year 
under investigation. 


With some practice in this format, you’ll be able to produce 
your own progressed medium term delineations. They should 
be of great value in helping a subject marshal the energies to 
make the most of the available opportunities. 










CHAPTER 34: THE PERSONAL MONTH 


581 


CHAPTER 34 

SHORT TERM CYCLES, PART 1: 
THE PERSONAL MONTH 


The short term cycles, the Personal Month and the Personal 
Day, are described in this and the following chapters. Although 
the energy of these cycles is expressed in a concentrated period 
of time, sometimes with striking impact, the medium term 
cycles discussed in the last three chapters carry a greater 
significance in the life. The Personal Month and Personal Day, 
like the Personal Year, describe approaches to events. There are 
no short term cycles describing probable events comparable to 
the Essence and Transits. 


THE PERSONAL MONTH DESCRIBES THE APPROACH 
TO EVENTS FOR A GIVEN MONTH LIKELY TO PRO¬ 
DUCE GROWTH AND DEVELOPMENT. The Personal 
Month should be visualized as a sub-approach or modifier of 
the Personal Year approach. By using the described monthly 
approach, the subject is in the best posture at that time of year 
to take advantage of the events and opportunities presented, as 
well as to avoid or alleviate the confusions and difficulties at¬ 
tendant on the experiences encountered. The Personal Month is 
an important cycle. 


THE PERSONAL MONTH IS THE SUM OF THE CALEN¬ 
DAR MONTH, REDUCED TO A SINGLE DIGIT OR 
MASTER NUMBER, AND THE PERSONAL YEAR. THE 
SUM IS LIKEWISE REDUCED TO A SINGLE DIGIT OR 
MASTER NUMBER. 


Definition 


Calculation 





582 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


Time span 
and 
transitions 


Chart 19: 
Personal 
Month/ 
Personal Day 


Commentary 


Example: 

Naomi is in a 3 Personal Year. What’s her Personal Month in 
February, August, October and November? 


Calendar + Personal 
Month Year 


February 

2 

+ 

3 

= 5 Personal Month 

August 

8 

+ 

3 

= 11/2 Personal Month 

October 

1 

+ 

3 

= 4 Personal Month 

November 

11 

-+ 

3 

= 14/5 Personal Month 


The Personal Month lasts one month, from the first to the 
last day of the calendar month. It may be felt to some degree 
about the 25th or 26th of the preceding month. Its fading in¬ 
fluence can be felt until about the 4th or 5th of the succeeding 
month. The pure vibrations, then, are only in effect from about 
the 5th to the 25th, the middle three weeks of each month. 


If you turn to chart 19: the personal month/the personal 
day, page 766, you’ll find the general description of the Per¬ 
sonal Months in the top row. When there’s an 11 Personal 
Month, the approach of both the 11 and 2 would be desirable. 
Similarly, in a 22 Personal Month, both 22 and 4 would be 
desirable approaches. 

The karmic Personal Months are described in the top row 
below the general descriptions. When there’s a karmic number 
behind the month’s digit:—a 19 behind the 1, a 13 behind the 4, 
a 14 behind the 5, a 16 behind the 7—there’s a probability of 
difficulties in that month. The description of these potential 
problems would be included in a delineation of that particular 
Personal Month. 

The bottom row of the chart describes character traits likely 
to produce positive results and other character traits likely to 
contribute to a disappointing month. These traits should be 
compared to the subject’s characteristics. Matching character¬ 
istics and their potential effect should be included as part of the 
delineation. 


The Personal Months are not used for forecasting. Rather, 
they’re used to channel the approach for the month, focus the 




CHAPTER 34: THE PERSONAL MONTH 


583 


monthly energies in the larger framework of the approach 
described by the Personal Year. 

Let’s say you’re in a 4 Personal Year. September, then, will 
be a 13/4 Personal Month (9 + 4 = 13/4). If it’s possible to 
schedule the difficult tasks for the year, you should schedule at 
least some of them for September with its emphasis on hard 
work. You should be aware, though, that, with the 13/4, you’re 
likely to feel limited and restricted that month, so you should 
prepare for that, too. 

In that same 4 Personal Year, how about a vacation or some 
light social life in August, a 3 Personal Month (8 + 4 = 12; 
1 + 2 = 3), as a foil for the hard work in September? And is a 
vacation or trip possible in October, a 5 Personal Month 
(1 + 4 = 5) as a welcome respite from the struggles and 
strains of September? 

I know it’s not always possible to schedule work or other 
events just the way you’d like. I also know, from my own ex¬ 
perience, that, in a 4 Personal Year, it’s generally a lot easier to 
do the hard work in September rather than in August or Oc¬ 
tober. Work with your own Personal Months for a while. If you 
get into the flow, you’ll see that work and vacations (and most 
everything else) often—very often—naturally fall where they 
are easiest to deal with. You may be surprised to see how 
you can adjust your life so that the “right” activities occur in 
the "right” months. And, be assured, if you’re in, say, a 5 Per¬ 
sonal Month, you are really going to want to expand, enjoy, 
adventure, have fun. If there’s some hard task that’s been 
scheduled, you’ll feel painfully restricted and discontent to 
work hard when your whole being wants to play instead. 

Like everyone else, I can’t schedule all the activities in my 
life completely. I can schedule a substantial part of them, 
though, and I can prepare myself to use the monthly energies 
that are present for maximum benefit for my various 
endeavors. 


Some numerologists use the Universal Month in addition to 
the Personal Month in determining the short term approach. 
The Universal Month, a short term cycle describing the general 
monthly trend of world influences, is the sum of the calendar 
month, reduced to a single digit or master number, and the 
Universal Year, with the sum likewise reduced to a single digit 
or master number. Although the trend of the influence of the 
Universal Month can be indicated, I find that the influence is so 
strongly diffused by the energy put forth by the earth’s popula¬ 
tion as to be of little consequence in determining an individual’s 
desirable approach for a given month. 


Universal 

Month 




584 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


There’s a monthly epicycle similar to the nine year Epicycle. 
Here’s a diagram of the 108 months which constitute a nine 
year Epicycle. The months are shown in vertical columns, ar¬ 
ranged by the number of their Personal Months: 


Personal 
Year — ► 

r 














■ 

■ 

■ '■JUIIIII 

i 

2 or 11/2 


1 

4 or 22/4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

H 

■ 


SEP 


AUG 


JUL 


JUN. 


MAY 


APR 


MAR 

DEC 


FEB 

NOV 

JAN 

OCT 


JAN 

OCT 

1 

SEP 

1 

AUG 

1 

JUL 

1 

JUN 

1 

MAY 

1 

APR 


1 

MAR 

DEC 

FEB 

NOV 

3 

FEB 

NOV 

JAN 

OCT 

1 

SEP 

1 

AUG 

1 

JUL 

1 

JUN 

1 

MAY 

■ 


APR 


MAR 

DEC 

4 or 22/4 

MAR 

DEC 

FEB 

NOV 

JAN 

OCT 

■ 

SEP 

■ 

AUG 

■ 

JUL 

1 

JUN 

1 


MAY 


APR 

1 

5 

APR 


MAR 

DEC 

FEB 

NOV 

JAN 

OCT 

■ 

SEP 

■ 

AUG 

■ 

JUL 

■ 


JUN 


MAY 

1 

6 

MAY 


APR 

1 

MAR 

DEC 

FEB 

NOV 

JAN 

OCT 


SEP 


AUG 

■ 


JUL 


JUN 

1 

7 



MAY 

1 

APR 

1 

MAR 

DEC 

FEB 


JAN 

OCT 


SEP 

■ 


AUG 



■ 

8 



JUN 

1 

MAY 

1 

APR 

1 

MAR 

E 

FEB 

NOV 

JAN 

OCT 

■ 


SEP 



1 

9 



JUL 

■ 

JUN 


MAY 

1 

APR 

1 

MAR 

DEC 

FEB 

NOV 

■ 

JAN 

OCT 


SEP 

■ 


Since there are twelve months in a calendar year and only 
nine different Personal Months (think of the 11 Personal Year as 
a variant of the 2, the 22 as a variant of the 4), the monthly 
epicycle has some interesting complexities. 

Some of the Personal Years contain a complete nine month 
epicycle: 

In the 6 Personal Year, there’s a complete monthly 
epicycle from April through December. 

In the 7 Personal Year, there’s a complete monthly 
epicycle from March through November. 

In the 8 Personal Year, there’s a complete monthly 
epicycle from February through October. 

In the 9 Personal Year, there’s a complete monthly 
epicycle from January through September. 

In Personal Years 1 through 5, there is not a complete month¬ 
ly epicycle in each calendar year. The monthly epicycle, in¬ 
stead, starts in one year, ends in the next and has a funny little 
hiccup in the middle, of the epicycle. The 1 Personal Year, for 


Monthly 

epicycle 




































































































CHAPTER 34: THE PERSONAL MONTH 


585 


example, has a 1 Personal Month in September, a 2 Personal 
Month in October, a 3 Personal Month in November, a 4 Per¬ 
sonal Month in December. The 2 Personal Year starts with a 3 
Personal Month in January (rather than the 5 Personal Month 
you might expect to follow December’s 4 Personal Month) and 
a 4 Personal Month in February, followed by the rest of the 
months in order. This monthly epicycle, then, runs in the 
following order of Personal Months, 1, 2, 3, 4, 3, 4 , 5, 6, 7, 8, 
9. The months are consecutive with the exception of the 3, 4, 3, 
4 hiccup. There’s a similar hiccup in the monthly epicycle in 
Personal Years 2 through 5. 

Even though Personal Years 6 through 9 have a complete 
monthly epicycle, there’s a similar two month overlap of Per¬ 
sonal Months at the end of each year and the beginning of the 
next. In the 6 Personal Year, for instance, November is an 8 
Personal Month, December a 9 Personal Month. At the begin¬ 
ning of the 7 Personal Year, January is an 8 Personal Month 
and February a 9 Personal Month. The sequence of Personal 
Months runs: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 8, 9 —a hiccup here, too. 

Remember our discussion of the detours and diversions in the: 
nine year Epicycle? The monthly epicycle adds its own addi¬ 
tional circumlocutions. 

Let’s look at a whole year in some detail. The 1 Personal Year 
emphasizes beginnings, change, moving forward, but the em¬ 
phasis, looked at monthly, is often meandering. There’s only 
one month—September, a 1 Personal Month—dedicated to be¬ 
ginning and moving forward. (September, the ninth month, 
always has a Personal Month number the same as the Personal 
Year number. This double emphasis usually focuses strong at¬ 
tention on the desirable approach every September, sometimes 
making September the culminating month in the year in terms 
of significant activity.) September, then, is probably the best 
time to begin in a 1 Personal Year. If that’s the case, the partial 
monthly epicycle from January to August could be considered a 
preparatory phase leading to September’s strong beginning 
emphasis. 

Having reached this starting point, though, the monthly Epi¬ 
cycle moves into a waiting phase—October, a 2 Personal 
Month, certainly a meandering follow-up to the beginning 
focus. (October, the tenth month, always is a Personal Month 
with the same number as the subsequent Personal Year.) The 
waiting October is followed by a potentially creative phase in 
November, a 3 Personal Month and a hard working phase in 
December, a 4 Personal Month. January, a 3 Personal Month in 
a 2 Personal Year, repeats the creative phase followed by a 
repetition of the working phase in February, a 4 Personal 
Month, and an expansive phase in March, a 5 Personal Month. 

You might think of hiccups as giving you a second chance at 





586 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


Chart 20: 
Epicycle 


a portion of the monthly epicycle. It’s not, of course, a pure 
second chance, because the November 3 Personal Month is in a 
1 Personal Year and emphasizes creative forward movement 
while the January 3 Personal Month, in a 2 Personal Year, 
stresses creative cooperation and waiting. 

Within each Personal Year, there’s a repetition of three Per¬ 
sonal Months. January and October always have the same Per¬ 
sonal Month number. So do February and November as well as 
March and December. Even with the same number Personal 
Month in the same Personal Year, the months reflect somewhat 
different approaches. January, February and March, with the 
year just getting under way, generally emphasize preparatory 
aspects of the approach while October, November and Decem¬ 
ber usually reflect the probability of a more developed ap¬ 
proach. Sometimes, one of these repeated Personal Months is a 
karmic number or a master number and the other is not, mak¬ 
ing for very different approaches in the two months. 

Two of the three repeated Personal Months are also involved 
in the hiccup. For instance: 

February and March of the 1 Personal Year are 3 and 4 
Personal Months. 

So are November and December of the I Personal 
Year. 

So are January and February of the 2 Personal Year. 

And October and November of the 2 Personal Year. 

There’ll be a lot of emphasis then on creativity (from the 3 
Personal Month) and hard work (from the 4 Personal Month) in 
these two Personal Years, more so than in other years. Other 
combinations of Personal Years will stress different approaches 
because of their repeated monthly patterns. 


chart 20: the epicycle, page 780, like the diagram on page 
584, displays a complete nine year Epicycle and its Personal 
Months. Here, the diagram has been expanded to include a de¬ 
scription of each month, the description being a synthesis of the 
descriptions of the appropriate Personal Year and Personal 
Month. The description for each of the months is short, due to 
space limitations. Although the description is accurate, it 
covers only one or two of the many possible approaches for 
each month. January and February of each year also show the 
fading influence of the previous year and October, November 
and December show the evolving influence of the succeeding 
year. 

Read the complete Epicycle from the beginning 2 Personal 



CHAPTER 34: THE PERSONAL MONTH 


587 


Month of the 1 Personal Year to the concluding 3 Personal 
Month of the 9 Personal Year to get a detailed awareness of the 
monthly flow along with the considerable detours and mean- 
derings. Read the months of the 11 and 22 Personal Years, too, 
to get acquainted with the effect of the master numbers on the 
flow. 


A delineation of any Personal Month includes the following: 

A. An awareness of the Personal Year. The Personal Month is 
always expressed as a sub-approach of the Personal Year 
approach. 

B. A description of the Personal Month (from Chart 19). If the 
Personal Month is a karmic month, include the karmic 
description. For an 11 Personal Month, read both the 11 
and 2 descriptions. For a 22 Personal Month, read both the 
22 and 4 descriptions. I don’t usually read the 11 or 22 ap¬ 
proach unless the subject is over twenty, except to note the 
nervous tension. 

C. An awareness of the place in the Epicycle (from Chart 20). 
Consult Chart 20 for some possible syntheses, but use your 
own syntheses if they are more appropriate to the trend of 
events described by the current Essence and Transits. In¬ 
clude the influence of the previous year in readings for 
January and February. Include the influence of the ap¬ 
proaching ye^for October, November and December. 

D. The subject’s potentials—from the birthname and current 
name(s) as well as the birthdate. The subject’s energies 
define the ability to enhance, deflect or mute the approach 
described by the Personal Month. The core elements. Kar¬ 
mic Debts, and Karmic Lessons may be of importance, 
along with any other strong modifiers which either flow or 
conflict with the approach. Usually, the elements or 
modifiers with a number matching the Personal Month 
number are of particular concern. 

On occasion, a subject with a Karmic Debt has a Person¬ 
al Month with the same karmic number. This usually indi¬ 
cates substantial difficulties unless the problems represent¬ 
ed by the Karmic Debt have already been faced and over¬ 
come. Generally, if the subject is under thirty, the Karmic 
Debt and the matching karmic Personal Month describe 
significant obstacles which can benefit by appropriate 
preparation. 

Note particularly the character traits described in the 
bottom row of Chart 19. Include in the delineation the sub- 


Delineation 

description 



588 


PART Y: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


Example: 
Hal Allen’s 
calculation 


ject’s characteristics matching the traits in the chart and 
their probable effect on the month. 

E. Preparation for the next Personal Month. A short note on 
the approach of the subsequent month provides some un¬ 
derstanding of the ongoing flow. When a delineation 
presents? an entire year of Personal Months or a series of Per¬ 
sonal Months, it isn’t necessary to discuss preparation for 
the coming month. 

Keep the delineation of the Personal Month relatively brief. 
We’re dealing with a sub-influence of the Personal Year rather 
than a strong separate cycle, and this should be reflected in the 
reading. The description of each Personal Month would be con¬ 
siderably shorter than the Personal Year description. 


We’ll delineate all the months of 1993 for Hal Allen. 

. We can read the number of the Personal Months in Chart 
20, or we can calculate them. We should also calculate the 
Personal Month for January, 1994, so we can indicate some 
preparation for the beginning of the subsequent year. 



Calendar 

Month 

+ 

Personal 

Year 

— 

Personal 

Month 

1993 

January 

1 

+ 

3 

= ■ 

4 

February 

2 

+ 

3 

= 

5 

March 

3 

+ 

3 

= 

6 

April 

4 

+ 

3 

= 

7 

May 

5 

+ 

3 

= 

8 

June 

6 

+ 

3 

= 

9 

July 

■7 

+ 

3 

- 

10 = 1 + 0= 1 

August 

8 

+ 

3 

= 

11/2 

September 

9 

+ 

3 

= 

12 = 1 + 2= 3 

October 

1 

+ 

3 

= 

4 

(10=1 + 0=1) 

November 

11 

+' 

3 

= 

14/5 

December 

3 

+ 

3 

= 

6 

(12=1 + 2 = 3) 

1994 

January 

1 

+ 

4 


5 





CHAPTER 34: THE PERSONAL MONTH 


589 


Here’s Hal’s monthly delineation for 1993 based on the steps 
previously outlined. You may want to read the delineation for 
the year in Chapter 33 to refresh your memory on the salient 
points. 

The delineation is written in the present tense. We’re assum¬ 
ing here that Hal Allen’s birthname is also his current name— 
that there are no additional energies from new names. 


Hal Allen’s 
Personal 
Month 
delineation 
for 1993 


1993 


JANUARY: 4 Personal Month 

Although the year is likely to be one with emphasis 
on social life, travel and good times, January isn't 
likely to start the year out like that ( contrast of 3 
Personal Year with 4 Personal Month). This seems, in¬ 
stead, to be a month to work hard, firm up founda¬ 
tions and take care of the details [4 Personal 
Month). Some of the work may require your imagi¬ 
nation and creative ability (3 Personal Year with 6 
Expression, 9 Soul Urge, 3 Birthday) and friends may 
even be there to help with the work as long as you 
are tactful and show consideration ( waning energy 
of previous 2 Personal Year). The work situation is 
likely to make you feel limited and restricted — 
you tend to a somewhat restless nature and the 
heavy load may not be much to your liking [4 Per¬ 
sonalMofith with 5 Life Path, 14/5 Karmic Debt, 5*5 
energy). Health matters may need your attention (4 
Personal Month ). 

FEBRUARY: 5 Personal Month 

February is apt to be more to your liking—a month 
with new people, places, opportunities, a time to 
expand, to delight in friends and adventure (3 Per¬ 
sonal Year, 5 Personal Month). You're likely to feel 
freer now than you did all of last year ( Expansion of 
5 Personal Month in contrast to waiting of 2 Personal 
Year) but be sure to proceed with some caution at 
least to the end of the month ( waning energy of 
previous 2 Personal Year). Don't be surprised if there 
are sudden, unexpected or unusual events (5 Per¬ 
sonal Month, N Transit). There may, for instance, be 
sudden endings or completion of experiences or 






590 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


relations. Be sure to handle,them with tolerance 
and compassion (5 Personal Month, 9 Essence). You 
may experience a change of residence or job or be 
involved in some short-lived but exciting romance 
[N Transit). There may be opportunities to enjoy 
yourself (3 Personal Year) and to put your adven¬ 
turous, flexible and imaginative capabilities to 
work (5 Personal Month positive characteristics with 5 
Life Path, 6 Expression, 9 Soul Urge, 3 Birthday). 

MARCH: 6 Personal Month 

March is a good time to express the joy of living 
with family and close friends (3 Personal Year, 6 Per¬ 
sonal Month). Enjoy the pleasures of friendship and 
love —romances, as in February, may be exciting 
but short-lived (9 Essence, N Transit). Marriage, 
if emotions are balanced, can be beautiful (N 
Transit), children can be sources of much gratifica¬ 
tion (6 Personal Month). Your friendly, understand¬ 
ing side may add to your pleasure at this time (6 
Personal Month positive characteristics with 6 Expres¬ 
sion). You may want to work around the house or 
take care of some domestic duties or responsibil¬ 
ities {6 Personal Month with 6 Expression, 6 Modified 
Karmic Lesson). Your creative imagination may 
prove helpful (3 Personal Year with 6 Expression, 9 
Soul Urge, 3 Birthday). 

APRIL: 7 Personal Month 

April presents a good time to meditate, reflect, 
analyze (7 Personal Month) or to spend time work¬ 
ing alone exploring your artistic talents (7 Personal 
Month, 3 Personal Year with 6 Expression, 9 Soul Urge, 
3 Birthday). I suspect that you would prefer more 
outgoing activities (5 Life Path) but you may 
benefit by developing your inner power and spiri¬ 
tual awareness or by studying and researching on 
some of your ventures (7 Personal Month), possibly 
putting some of your creative abilities to use (3 
Personal Year with 5 Life Path, 6 Expression, 9 Soul 
Urge, 3 Birthday). You may have time to reflect on 
your plans for the rest of the year (7 Personal 
Month). Take care of health matters that need at¬ 
tention (7 Personal Month). 



CHAPTER 34: THE PERSONAL MONTH 


591 


MAY: 8 Personal Month 

You may feel a good deal more dynamic in May 
than in April (8 Personal Month compared to 7). This 
power may be helpful in taking advantage of op¬ 
portunities, possibly sudden or unusual, to expand 
business affairs or to improve your financial stand¬ 
ing (8 Personal Month, N Transit ). Friends and social 
skills may unlock doors (3 Personal Year). There 
may be business opportunities (8 Personal Month ) 
involving partnerships or associations, but they are 
likely to need much patience on your part to 
develop completely ( start of 2 Essence this month). 
Be businesslike and practical in your dealings (8 
Personal Month), but don't be surprised if your 
creative abilities and your joie de vivre play a part, 
too (3 Personal Year with 6 Expression, 9 Soul Urge, 3 
Birthday). 


JUNE: 9 Personal Month 

An experience or a relationship may end in June, 
needing much in the way of tolerance and com¬ 
passion from you (9 Personal Month). There may be 
much feeling here which is likely to interfere with 
the general optimism and cheerfulness you've 
probably-Vbeen feeling (3 Personal Year, 9 Personal 
Month). Developments are likely to take longer 
than is comfortable (2 Essence). You may find some 
pleasure in artistic or imaginative expression (9 
Personal Month with 6 Expression, 9 Soul Urge, 3 Birth¬ 
day), or in helping others in humanistic or philan¬ 
thropic ventures [6 Personal Month with 9 Soul Urge). 


JULY: 1 Personal Month 

Advance enthusiastically in July with your joyous 
and lively approach. Exploit your creative imagi¬ 
nation and verbal skills to break up old conditions, 
to begin something new, to make a change (3 Per¬ 
sonal Year, 1 Personal Month with 3 Birthday). It may 
be a good time to expand the business oppor¬ 
tunities started in May or to explore possibilities 
related to viable partnerships (I Personal Month, 2 
Essence). Express your originality and individuality 


595 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


in developing opportunities involving friends (3 
Personal Year, 1 Personal Month). 

AUGUST: 11/2 Personal Month 

August is apt to seem quiet after the exhilaration 
of July (11/2 Personal Month compared to 1 Per¬ 
sonal Month). This is a month to be sensitive and 
receptive while awaiting developments (2 Personal 
Month, 2 Essence). Enjoy your friends in quiet social 
situations or cooperate with others on their pro¬ 
jects, possibly giving them the benefit of your 
creative input (3 Personal Year, 2 Personal Month, 2 
Essence with 6 Expression, 9 Soul Urge, 3 Birthday). 
You may become aware of some new awarenesses, 
but this, inner growth is probably in a very early 
formative stage. (11 Personal Month with 11 Maturity 
Number. A weak influence, but should be mentioned.) 
You're likely to feel some nervous tension this 
month (11 Personal Month). Be careful that this ten¬ 
sion along with your current high level of sensitivi¬ 
ty is kept under control so as not to precipitate 
emotional difficulties (3 Personal Year, 11/2 Personal 
Month). 

SEPTEMBER: 3 Personal Month 

September is a month to enjoy yourself, so move 
as much responsibility to next month as you can. 
There's probably been the usual quota of ups and 
downs this year, but now's the time to express hap¬ 
piness and delight so enthusiastically that it's con¬ 
tagious. Express artistically using your imaginative 
capability. Enjoy a lively social life. Entertain or 
be entertained. Travel or vacation (3 Personal Year, 
3 Personal Month with 5 Life Path). 

OCTOBER: 4 Personal Month 

October is a month to work hard, to build founda¬ 
tions for ventures started in previous months, to 
strengthen weak areas, to start to take care of the 
details ( 4 Personal Month). Use your imagination 
and creativity. Get help from friends when possi¬ 
ble to lighten the work load (3 Personal Year with 5 
Life Path, 3 Birthday). Exercise patience and co- 



CHAPTER 34: THE PERSONAL MONTH 


593 


operation. Don't be surprised if everything takes 
a little longer than expected (2 Essence). You prob¬ 
ably won't be that happy with this month's work¬ 
load, going as it does against your free-wheeling 
nature. You may feel uncomfortable with the 
limitations and restrictions imposed ( 4 Personal 
Month with 5 Life Path). Begin to prepare for next 
year with its predominant emphasis on hard work 
(Approaching 4 Personal Year). . 

(Note similarities and differences between the descrip¬ 
tions for January and October, both 4 Personal 
Months.). 

NOVEMBER: 14/5 Personal Month 

Although November is probably a month with 
much excitement—new people, new activities— 
you may have trouble taking advantage of the op¬ 
portunities presented. Although the tone of this 
adventurous month seems to go with your basic 
nature, you may find that your restlessness, erratic 
actions and excessive appetite for physical 
stimulation may hamper developments {14/5 Per¬ 
sonal Month with 5 Life Path, 14/5 Karmic Debt, 5-5 
energy). You'll probably enjoy your friends and the 
excitement of .the month's social activities (3 Per¬ 
sonal Year, 14/5 Personal Month), but there's likely to 
be work to be done, possibly left from last month, 
as well as additional work on the horizon. You're 
apt to be uncomfortable getting the work done 
now, but your tendency to avoid it may cause add¬ 
ed difficulties [14/5 Personal Month, approaching 4 
Personal Year). 

[Note the strong differences between February, a 5 Per¬ 
sonal Month and November, a 14/5 Personal Month). 

DECEMBER: 6 Personal Month 

December's merriment, enthusiasm and joy are 
likely to center around the family and close 
friends. There can be much friendship, love and 
pleasure from lover, spouse or children and artistic 
or creative endeavors related to them or to the 
home [3 Personal Year, 6 Personal Month). There are 






594 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


likely to be domestic duties which feel restrictive, 
at this time, although you'd be well advised to 
take care of them ( 6 Personal Month with 6 Expres¬ 
sion, 6 Modified Karmic Lesson ). You can probably 
see the additional work coming next year and it's 
likely to feel like it will be limiting ( approaching 4 
Personal Year conflicting with 5 Life Path, 14/5 Karmic 
Debt, 5-5 energy). You'll probably find fun and 
adventure next month, though, along with the 
beginnings of some substantial work ( preparation 
for next January, a 5 Personal Month). 

[Note the similarities and differences between the 
descriptions for March and December, both 6 Personal 
Months). 


The change in May, 1933 from the 9 Essence to the 11/2 
Essence is apparent in the monthly readings. Hal’s character 
traits play an important part, too. His 5 energies are particular¬ 
ly apparent in the 3 and 5 months and the probable conflict in 
the 4 months. His creative 3, 6 and 9 energies are also in con¬ 
stant focus in the 3 Personal Year. 

The monthly readings should be given as broadly as possible 
to delineate the general tone of each month as modified by the 
subject’s personality and special abilities. 


CHAPTER 35: THE PERSONAL DAY 


595 


CHAPTER 35 

SHORT TERM CYCLES, PART 2 : 
THE PERSONAL DAY 


THE PERSONAL DAY DESCRIBES THE APPROACH TO 
EVENTS FOR A GIVEN DAY LIKELY TO PRODUCE 
GROWTH AND DEVELOPMENT. The Personal Day should 
be visualized as a sub-approach or modifier of the Personal 
Month approach. The Personal Day is important in pin¬ 
pointing a precise day to schedule an action to take advantage 
of the events and opportunities presented, as well as to avoid or 
alleviate the confusions and difficulties encountered with poor 
timing. The Personal Day is an important cycle. 


THE PERSONAL DAY IS THE SUM OF THE CALEN¬ 
DAR MONTH AND CALENDAR DAY, BOTH REDUCED 
TO A SINGLE DIGIT OR MASTER NUMBER, AND THE 
PERSONAL YEAR. THE SUM IS REDUCED TO A SINGLE 
DIGIT OR MASTER NUMBER. 

Examples: 

What’s Arthur’s Personal Day on March 8 in a 6 Personal 
Year? 


Calendar 

Calendar 

Personal 

Month 

+ Day 

+ Year = Personal Day 

3 

+ 8 

+ 6 =17 



= 1 + 7 



= 8 Personal Day 


What’s Anne’s Personal Day on November 22 in a 22 Per¬ 
sonal Year? 


Definition 


Calculation 





596 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


Calendar Calendar Personal 
Month + Day + Year ■= Personal Day 

11 + 22 + 22 = 55 

= 5 + 5 
= 10 
= 1+0 

= 1 Personal Day 

Don’t calculate the Personal Day by adding the calendar 
day, reduced to a single digit or master digit, and the Personal 
Month, with the sum then reduced to a single digit or master 
number. This may seem like a short cut, but you may pick up 
or lose a karmic day or a master number day. 

Example: 

What’s Eunice’s Personal Day on May 9 in an 8 Personal 
Year? 

Calendar Calendar Personal 
Month + Day + Year = Personal Day 

■5 + 9 + 8 = 22/4 Personal Day 

If you incorrectly added the calendar day and the Personal 
Month, you’d have ended up with a 13/4 Personal Day instead. 
Quite a difference! 


Time Span „ The Personal Day lasts one day, from midnight to midnight. 

and There may be some slight overlap of influences, but since the 
transitions ^ me period is so short, transitions are of little consequence. 


Chart 19: 
Personal 
Month/ 
Personal Day 


If you turn to chart 19: the personal month/the personal 
day, page 766, you’ll find the general description of the Per¬ 
sonal Day in the second row. 

The 11 Personal Day is described for a subject only if there’s 
an 11 core element, and the 2 Personal Day description is also 
included. If there’s no 11 element, the 11 is reduced to a 2 Per¬ 
sonal Day with the addition of the likelihood of nervous 
tension. 

The 22 Personal Day, similarly, is described only if there’s a 
22 core element and the 4 Personal Day description is also in¬ 
cluded. If there’s no 22 core element, the 22 is reduced to a 4 
Personal Day with the addition of the likelihood of nervous 
tension. 

The karmic Personal Days are described in the second row 



CHAPTER 35: THE PERSONAL DAY 


597 


below the general description. When there’s a karmic number 
behind the day’s digit—a 19 behind the 1, a 13 behind the 4, a 
14 behind the 5, a 16 behind the 7—there’s a probability of dif¬ 
ficulties that day. The description of these potential problems 
would be included in a delineation of that particular Personal 
Day. 

The bottom row of the chart describes character traits likely 
to produce positive results and other character traits likely to 
contribute to a disappointing day. These traits should be com¬ 
pared to the subject’s characteristics. Matching characteristics 
and their potential effect should be included as part of the 
delineation. 


The Personal Day, as I indicated, is especially important for 
timing. If there’s an important event in your life which lasts a 
day or less, schedule it for the appropriate Personal Day if 
possible. Sign a business contract on an 8 Personal Day, visit 
your crotchety uncle on a 6 Personal Day. Help a friend move 
into a new apartment on a 4 Personal Day—it’ll still be a lot of 
work, but it’s apt to feel better than on a 5 Personal Day. 

Since many activities last more than a day, use the ap¬ 
propriate Personal Day for the beginning of the activity. For 
instance, if you’re going on vacation, start on a 3 or 5 Personal 
day and you’ll be off to a good beginning. Or, there’s a family 
responsibility which will take a month or two to work out. Get 
going on it on a 6 (or 2 or 9) Personal Day if possible. 

The Personal Day is of less importance than the Personal 
Month. It’s of considerable significance to schedule activities in 
the appropriate month, less significant to choose the correct 
day. If you can do both, so much the better; if you can schedule 
only one, concentrate on the month. Because of the limited 
time involved, the Personal Day with a karmic number or a 
master number rarely indicates a strong impact. 


Some numerologists use the Universal Day in addition to the 
Personal Day in determining the short term approach. The 
Universal Day, a short term cycle describing the general daily 
trend of world influences, is the sum of the calendar day and 
calendar month, reduced to a single digit or master number, 
and the Universal Month, with the sum likewise reduced to a 
single digit or master number. The influence of the Universal 
Day is even more diffuse than the influence of the Universal 
Month and is of little consequence. 


Commentary 


Universal 

Day 





Daily 

epicycle 


Delineation 

description 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


Like the monthly epicycle that structures the Personal 
Months, there’s a daily epicycle that structures the Personal 
Days. A month contains two or three complete daily epicycles 
along with one or two partial epicycles. You may find three or 
four days a month with the same Personal Day number—there 
are, then, three or four 1 Personal Days, good days to start im¬ 
portant activities, and three or four 3 Personal Days, good days 
to schedule social events or entertainments. 

There’s usually a hiccup at the end of each month and the 
beginning of the next, similar to the Personal Month hiccup. If 
a month has thirty days, two Personal Days are repeated as the 
months change; if a month has thirty-one days, three Personal 
Days are repeated. February, when it has twenty-eight days, 
has no hiccup, but continues the daily cycle in consecutive 
order. When February has twenty-nine days, there’s a repeat of 
one Personal Day as February ends and March begins. 

Keep the daily epicycle in mind as a month proceeds. You’ll 
quickly begin to feel the difference, say, between a 4 and 5 Per¬ 
sonal Day or between a 9 and 1 Personal Day. The flow here, 
while of less importance than the flow of the monthly epicycle, 
still provides a guide to the meanderings and detours, the ups 
and downs in your activities and relationships. 


A delineation of any Personal Day includes the following: 

A. An awareness of the Personal Month. The Personal Day is 
always expressed as a sub-approach of the Personal 
Month approach. 

B. A description of the Personal Day (from Chart 19). If the 
Personal Day is a karmic day, include the karmic descrip¬ 
tion. Use the 11 or 22 Personal Day descriptions only if 
the subject has the master number as a core element and 
always include the description of the 2 or 4 Personal Day. 
Even if the 11 or 22 description isn’t used, the nervous 
tension of the master number should be added to the 2 or 
4 description. 

C. The subject’s potentials—both from the birthname and 
the current name(s) as well as the birthdate. The 
subject’s energies define the ability to enhance, deflect or 
mute the approach described by the Personal Day. Use 
only the core elements or Karmic Debts here, when they 
either flow or conflict with the approach. Usually the ele¬ 
ments or Karmic Debt with a number matching the Per¬ 
sonal Day number are of particular concern. 

On occasion, a subject with a Karmic Debt has a Per¬ 
sonal Day with the same karmic number. This usually in- 



CHAPTER 35: THE PERSONAL DAY 


599 


dicates some difficulties unless the problems represented 
by the Karmic Debt have already been faced and re¬ 
solved. Generally, if the subject is under thirty, the Per¬ 
sonal Day matching a Karmic Debt describes a day with 
the possibility of disturbing impediments. 

Note particularly the character traits described in the 
bottom row of Chart 19. Include in the delineation the 
subject’s characteristics matching the traits in the chart 
and their probable effect on the day. 

Keep the Personal Day delineation deliberately brief. Give 
the subject the description of a week or two at a time if the par¬ 
ticular time span is of importance. The epicycle flow is not 
usually accentuated in the delineation, although the epicycles 
later in the month tend to be slightly more developed than the 
earlier ones. A 1 Personal Day later in the month, for instance, 
may be somewhat stronger for starting activities than the first 1 
Personal Day of the month, but this is of consequence only 
when the subject has a choice of those two days for the start of 
an activity. Because of the short time span of the Personal Day, 
no description for the next day need be included. 


We’ll delineate the last six days of October, 1993 and the first 
six days of November, 1993 for Hal Allen. 1993 is, for Hal 
Allen, a 3 Personal Year. Here are the calculations for the Per¬ 
sonal Days: 




Calendar 

Month 

+ 

Calendar 

Day 

+ 

Personal 

Year 

= 

Personal Day 

October 

26 

1 

+ 

8 

+ 

3=12 

= 

3 


27 

1 

+ 

9 

+ 

3 

= 

13/4 


28 

1 

+ 

1 

+ 

3 

= 

5 


29 

1 

+ 

11 

+ 

3 = 15 

= 

6 


30 

1 

+ 

3 

+ 

3 

= 

7 


31 

1 

+ 

4 

+ 

3 

= 

8 

November 

1 

11 

+ 

1 

+ 

3 = 15 

= 

6 


2 

11 

+ 

2 

+ 

3 

= 

16/7 


3 

11 

+ 

3 


3=17 

= 

8 


4 

11 

+ 

4 

+ 

3=18 

= 

9 


5 

11 

+ 

5 

+ 

3 

= 

19/1 


6 

11 

+ 

6 

+ 

3 = 20 

= 

2 


Here’s the daily delineation based on the steps previously 
outlined. I’ve included the Personal Month delineations from 
Chapter 34. 


Example: 
Hal Allen’s 
calculation 


Hal Allen’s 
Personal Day 
delineation 





600 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


The delineation is written in the present tense. We’re assum¬ 
ing here that Hal’s birthname is also his current name—that 
there are no additional energies from new names. 

OCTOBER: 4 Personal Month 

October is a month to work hard, to build founda¬ 
tions for ventures started in previous months, to 
strengthen weak areas, to start to take care of the 
details. Use your imagination and creativity. Get 
help from friends when possible to lighten the 
work load. Exercise patience and cooperation. 
Don't be surprised if everything takes a little 
longer than expected. You probably won't be that 
happy with this month's workload, going as it does 
against your free-wheeling nature. You may feel 
uncomfortable with the limitations and restric¬ 
tions imposed. Begin to prepare for next year with 
its predominant emphasis on hard work. 

OCTOBER 26: 3 Personal Day 

If you can, take a break from the heavy work load 
(3 Personal Day in a 4 Personal Month). Visit with 
friends, express your pleasure and delight in the 
day. Use your imaginative or creative talents in 
some artistic venture. Have a good time (3 Personal 
Day with 3 Birthday). 

(The Personal Month usually jits into the flow of the 
monthly epicycle so that the monthly approach meshes 
with the activities and experiences of the year. On the 
other hand, the Personal Day, because of its short dura¬ 
tion, can provide a needed break, as in the above 3 Per¬ 
sonal Day, rather than be adjusted to fit into the flow.) 

OCTOBER 27: 13/4 Personal Day 

A good day to complete routine tasks, keep your 
nose to the grindstone. Get as much of the month¬ 
ly work as possible out of the way today. You're 
likely to feel uncomfortably limited or restricted, 
but try to get some satisfaction from completing 
the job at hand ( 13/4 Personal Day conflicts with 5 
Life Path, 14/5 Karmic Debt). 



CHAPTER 35: THE PERSONAL DAY 


OCTOBER 28: 5 Personal Day 

You've probably been struggling all month with a 
lot of work. This may be the day to take a chance, 
make an important change that will affect the 
work load. If you're afraid of taking risks, the op¬ 
portunity may pass you by. ( 14/5 Karmic Debt may 
make Hal restless or afraid of taking risks.) 

(Since this is the last 5 Personal Day in the month, and 
since a 5 Personal Month is coming next, this is a good 
day to make a much needed change. I wouldn’t have 
recommended the change on a 5 Personal Day earlier in 
the month because of Hal’s probable restlessness.) 

OCTOBER 29: 6 Personal Day 

There's likely to be some physical work to be com¬ 
pleted around the house or some special service or 
assistance to be given there. Work or help others 
but give friendly and loving feelings. You'll prob¬ 
ably get similar feelings returned (6 Expression 
stresses positive results). 

OCTOBER 30: 7 Personal Day 

With so much work, you probably haven't had 
much time by yourself for a while: Today would be 
a good.rdfiy To spend some time alone. Review 
what you've accomplished this month and plan for 
some expansion in the coming month. Don't make 
any changes today. 

(This last 7 Personal Day in the month is a good time to 
take stock and plan for the 5 Personal Month that’s com¬ 
ing. Remember that the influences of the new month 
can be felt toward the end of the preceding month and 
should be mentioned in the daily reading where appro¬ 
priate. Hal, of course, has no 7 energy to help or hinder 
the day’s prospects.) 

OCTOBER 31: 8 Personal Day 

You have a lot of ability to make things happen to¬ 
day. Use that ability decisively to get some task 
completed. This accomplishment may register a 
maximum impact in business or financial matters. 







602 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


The work you do today may prove significant rela¬ 
tive to your advancement. ( Hal has no 8 energy to 
help or hinder the day’s prospects.) 

NOVEMBER: 14/5 Personal Month 

Although November is probably a month with 
much excitement—new people, new activities — 
you may have trouble taking advantage of the op¬ 
portunities presented. Although the tone of this 
adventurous month seems to go with your basic 
nature, you may find that your restlessness, erratic 
actions and excessive appetite for physical stim¬ 
ulation may hamper developments. You'll prob¬ 
ably enjoy your friends and the excitement of the 
month's social activities, but there's likely to be 
work to be done, possibly left from last month, as 
well as additional work on the horizon. You're apt 
to be uncomfortable getting the work done now, 
but your tendency to avoid it may cause added 
difficulties. 

NOVEMBER 1: 6 Personal Day 

There may be some domestic duties to finish up, 
but this is apt to be a good day to enjoy the 
pleasures of domestic life with your wife or 
children. You may be involved in some exciting 
social activities with friends or new acquaint¬ 
ances ( 6 Expression stresses positive results.) 

NOVEMBER 2: 16/7 Personal Day 

Spend some time today in quiet contemplation, 
planning the changes you may be making during 
the rest of the month. Give some thought to next 
year's work load, too. Try not to disconcert or con¬ 
fuse others by being self-centered, argumentative 
or withdrawn. Explain yourself as clearly as possi¬ 
ble to alleviate difficulties even though you may 
find that your communication tends to be clouded 
with emotion. [No 7 energy to help or hinder the day’s 
prospects .) 

NOVEMBER 3: 8 Personal Day 

Use your ability today to expand your activities, 
possibly in some business venture. If you can ap- 



CHAPTER 35: THE PERSONAL DAY 


603 


ply your power with creativity and imagination, 
you may help make a desired change or help ad¬ 
vance your position. (No 8 energy to help or hinder 
the day’s prospects hut the 5 Life Path could he helpful 
here.) For maximum benefit, control your tendency 
to be erratic or irresponsible. (14/5 Karmic Debt can 
be a problem if it hasn’t been overcome—remember this 
is a 14/5 Personal Month.) 

NOVEMBER 4: 9 Personal Day 

A good day to complete relations, experiences or 
activities which may hamper the possibility of fun 
and excitement for the rest of the month. Act with 
sensitivity and compassion. Be prepared to deal 
with strong feelings, even some sudden or unusual 
dramatic situation. (Hal’s 9 Soul Urge should help 
produce positive results.) 

NOVEMBER 5: 19/1 Personal Day 

If you're feeling self-centered, overaggressive, 
fearful or indecisive today, it may interfere with 
the exciting activities in which you may want to en¬ 
gage. Take time out to work on any of these uncom¬ 
fortable characteristics which may be bothering 
you. Postpone putting any new plans into action 
today - relating to changes you've been con¬ 
templating—you may get off on the wrong foot. 
(The 19/1 should be heeded although Hal’s 5 Life Path 
and 14/5 Karmic Debt may make him impatient.) 

NOVEMBER 6: 2 Personal Day 

Try to be aware of subtle nuances about you—you 
may learn something of significance for the future. 
This is a fine day for pleasant, but quiet, social ac¬ 
tivities. Don't look for adventure or excitement to¬ 
day, but, rather, help routine affairs move forward 
smoothly. (2 Karmic Lesson and 2 Maturity Number 
energies may prove helpful.) 


As you can see, the last days of October, like any other 
month, reflect the end of the approach used that month—in 
October’s example, the end of the work accomplished that 
month. The first days of November, like any other month, 







604 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


reflect the planning and beginning stages of the approach to 
events used in November. The middle days of a month reflect 
the ongoing activities rather than the start or finish. 

A knowledge of your own Personal Days will probably in¬ 
crease your effectiveness and provide added help over the 
rough spots. 


CHAPTER 36 : ADVANCED PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


CHAPTER 36 


ADVANCED PROGRESSED 
DELINEATION: 

AN EXAMPLE 


We’ll imagine it’s toward the end of 1990. A client, Hope 
Edythe Lynch, has asked for a reading. She was born on March 
28, 1962, so she’s now twenty-eight years old. Hope has had a 
rather busy and confusing time in the last few years, she says, 
and she’d appreciate having some idea of what to expect in the 
coming year. Several important areas of her life seem to be 
changing and she r wpuld especially like to know about them. 

She’s been engaged for a little over six months. She wants to 
schedule the wedding for a Sunday in February, March or 
April of 1991. What Sunday would I recommend? 

What can she expect of marriage at this time? Is the confu¬ 
sion she’s been experiencing going to continue unabated? (A 
complete analysis of the possibilities of marriage would also in¬ 
clude a discussion of Hope’s new name [see Chapter 24] and a 
comparison of her energies with the energies of her husband- 
to-be [see Chapter 39]. Since our primary interest here is the 
progressed delineation, we’ll ignore these other discussions at 
this time.) 

Hope says she’s had a fine job for several years. She’s recently 
received several new job offers, two of which are particularly 
attractive. She could start either of these jobs at the beginning 
of the year at her own convenience. Should she take either of 
them or remain at her current job? If she decides to take a new 
job, when is the best time to start? 

Hope, like Hal Allen,' is a fictitious character. If she was a 
real person, I’d start by being sure she understood that 


A client 
with some 
questions 







606 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


Procedure to 
answer the 
client's 
questions 


Hope Edythe 
Lynch: 
calculation 
sheet, 
organization 
sheet and 
progressed 
chart 


numerologists are not fortune tellers. I can’t tell how the mar¬ 
riage will work out, I can’t tell if she is going to continue to feel 
confused and I can’t tell which job is going to work out better. I 
can indicate Hope’s current energies, the probable obstacles in 
her life and probable events to come, but I have no way of 
knowing precisely what Hope will do with her energies, how 
she will choose to face the obstacles, how she will react to the 
unfolding events. 

Having completed this preamble, we can get down to work. 


First, well calculate and organize the basic data. 

Second, well do a progressed delineation for 1990 and 1991, 
including 

a short summary of Hope’s character traits, 
the background influences for both years, 
the probable events or trend of events and the desirable 
approach for growth and development for both 
years, 

the influence of the beginning months of 1991, the 
months with which Hope is particularly concerned, 
and 

the influence prevailing on all the Sundays in the month 
or months appropriate for her wedding. 

Third, well discuss each of Hope’s questions. The answers to 
her questions will be related to the progressed delineation. 


To begin, well perform the standard calculations (Figure 
36-1 on page 608). For simplicity, well assume that Hope’s 
birthname is also her current name—that there are no addi¬ 
tional energies from new names. 

Then well group Hope’s energies on the organization sheet 
(Figure 36-2 on page 609). 

Well prepare the progressed chart with the Epicycle in¬ 
cluding 1990 and 1991, the years under discussion (Figure 36-3 
on page 610). The rows representing 1990 and 1991 are shaded 
on the chart for easy reference. 

Finally, well calculate the Personal Months for the begin¬ 
ning of 1991. 



CHAPTER 36: ADVANCED PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


Calendar Personal 
Month + Year = Personal Month 


January 

1 

+ - 

6 

= 7 

February 

2 

+ - 

6 

8 

March 

3 

+ 

6 

9 

April 

4 

+ 

6 

= 10= 1 

May 

5 

+ 

6 

11/2 


PROGRESSED DELINEATION: 1990, 1991 
FOR 

HOPE EDYTHE LYNCH 
BORN MARCH 28, 1962 

SUMMARY OF CHARACTER TRAITS 

Your main lesson in life is to learn the advantage 
of order and system as well as learning to live with 
the limitations you find ( 4 Life Path). 

There are a lot of strong positive potentials 
here. You're likely to be quite practical, good at 
systematizing and managing and good at handling 
groups ( 4 Life Path, 2 Expression). You are probably 
honest, sincere and responsible [4 Life Path). I ex¬ 
pect that you have innate business capability (8 
Soul Urge, three 8s), that you use your executive 
ability, fine analytic mind, technical ability, 
energy and ambition to make your way (8 Soul 
Urge, three 7s). You're apt to have an independent 
attitude with original or out-of-the-ordinary ideas 
or an unusual viewpoint ( 28/1 Birthday, three 7s). 

I suspect there are some impediments which, 
until resolved, may get in the way of making the 
most of the above potentials. I can't determine 
which of these problem areas have already been 
taken care of, but I expect that at least some of 
them still need considerable effort. You probably 
have to work hard, far harder than your fair share 
to get most jobs done. This may make you feel re¬ 
stricted ( 13/4 Karmic Debt). You seem to have a 
tendency to be rigid, obstinate or dogmatic ( 1314 
Karmic Debt, 8-8 energy) as well as self-centered (4 
Life Path, 8 Soul Urge, 9 Karmic Lesson). Some of the 
limitations you feel may be produced or rein¬ 
forced by your own unbending views and lack of 


607 


Hope Edythe 

Lynch: 

Personal 

Month 

calculation 


Progressed 
delineation 
for Hope 
Edythe 
Lynch 





608 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


4 FIRST PINNACLE ( 0-32) 
1 SECOND PINNACLE (33-41) 

5 THIRD PINNACLE (42-50) 
3 FOURTH PINNACLE (51 on) 


March 28, 1962 



(0-23) (24-59) (60 on) 


3-1 = 2 
9-1 = 8 

8-2 = 6 CHALLENGE 

11 + (17)8 + 7 = 26 = ® 

6 5 5 7 5 7 

HOPE EDYTHE LYNCH 

8 7 4 28 3 538 

(15) 6 + (14) 5 + (19) 1 = 12 = 3 SECRET SELF 

8675 547285 , 37538 

(26) 8 + (31) 4 + (26) 8 = 20 = ^ 

no 1 ■*“ 
one 2 
two 3’s 


one 4 
four 5’s 

PHYSICAL 

EEDE 

4-Strong 

one 6 

MENTAL 

HPHLNH 

6-Strong 

three 7’s 
three 8’s 
no 9 

EMOTIONAL 

OT 

2-Average 

INTUITIVE 

YYC 

3-Average 


MATURITY NUMBER = 4 + 2 = 6 


Figure 36~1 
Calculation Sheet: 
Hope Edythe Lynch 


CHAPTER 36: ADVANCED PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


609 


* 


E 




■ 

1 


vly 

1 Modified 
Karmic Lesson 

0 

| 




B 

E 


3 Secret Self 



E 


© 

13/4 

D 

E 




■ 

E 


6 Maturity 
Number 

6 Challenge 

— 

2 

E 

Three 7’s 

7 Prime 
Intensifier 



i 

E 

Three 8’s 

8 Prime 

Intensifier 

<D 

8 Growth 
Number 

00 (S) 

00 00 

8 

E 



9 Karmic Lesson 

B 

D 




B 





B 

. .r . > Temperament: Strong Mental 

directing Strong Physical 

MODIFIERS First Letter: H 

First Vowel: O 


7 of 12 Elements and Sub-elements in 1, 4, 8 Group 


Figure 36-2 
Organization Sheet: 
Hope Edyihe Lynch 


constructive adaptability (13/4 Karmic Debt). You 
may also tend to be dominating and too exacting 
(8 Soul Urge). You're likely to be materialistic, 
possibly obsessed with goals and achievements 
(8-8 energy, three 8s, 8 Prime Intensified. There may 
be a lack of confidence which makes it difficult to 
promote yourself at times (1 Modified Karmic 
Lesson). 



















610 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


HOPE EDYTHE LYNCH 
MARCH 28, 1962 



Medium Term 


Essence] Personal 
I Year 



□□EailQQI 

iairiniit MBii 
BE3E«QElSg!g 

GnaQiuS 


EDODHEjSl 
BOQIKIK^ 





Figure 36-3 

Partial Progressed Chart: 
Hope Edythe Lynch 


There are some additional strong potentials 
here, but your business orientation and the ob¬ 
stacles mentioned in the last paragraph may make 
it difficult for these potentials to develop easily. 
You could be or become exceedingly sensitive to 
others' feelings. You can develop into a diplo¬ 
matic, considerate, courteous and cooperative 
person (2 Expression). You'll have to learn not to 













































CHAPTER 36: ADVANCED PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


611 


repress your feelings, a very strong tendency (9 
Karmic Lesson, three 8s), and not to succumb to 
timidity or uncertainty ( 2 Expression). You may be 
subject to many emotional upsets until you learn 
concern for others along with a clear expression of 
your feelngs and a clear response to others' feel¬ 
ings (9 Karmic Lesson). 


BACKGROUND INFLUENCES 

(The 4 First Pinnacle, with the related 4 Life Path and 
13/4 Karmic Debt, is likely to be more important than 
the 1 Second Period, with its related 1 Birthday and 1 
Modified Karmic Lesson.) 

At this time in your life, you're likely to be in a 
practical environment with down-to-earth activi¬ 
ties and experiences (4 First Pinnacle). Your 
capability at systematizing and organizing is likely 
to be useful in this environment as are your con¬ 
scientious, dependable and responsible attitudes. 
There's probably a need for hard work, determined 
effort and constant application, and you're cer¬ 
tainly capable of that (4 First Pinnacle with 4 Life 
Path, 8 SoulMrge). The opportunities and activities 
are likely to develop more slowly than you'd like 
(4 First Pinnacle). 

Although practicality and hard work are stressed, 
there's also likely to be an emphasis on the ability 
to act independently using your own resources. In¬ 
dividuality and originality are apt to be encour¬ 
aged (I Second Period on the 4 Life Path). You have 
the potential to be independent ( 28/1 Birthday) and 
your original ideas and unusual viewpoint ( 28/1 
Birthday, three 7’s) are likely to be appreciated, but 
I suspect that your shyness, uncertainty (2 Expres¬ 
sion) and lack of confidence ( 1 Modified Karmic 
Lesson) must be overcome to maximize the poten¬ 
tial of these characteristics. Achievements based 
on your independent outlook are likely to be re¬ 
warded with recognition and financial gain (I Sec¬ 
ond Period on the 4 Life Path). 











612 


PART V : PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


l discussed your probable feelings of limitation 
before, but I suspect that these feelings are felt 
strongly at this time in your life. You may have had 
to work hard from an early age, you may have had 
to live with economic limitations and had little 
time for youthful activities. These experiences, 
along with your rigidity, exacting approach and 
materialistic needs all contribute to your current 
feeling of restriction ( 4 First Pinnacle with 13/4 Kar¬ 
mic Debt, 8 Soul Urge, 8-8 energy ). I doubt that you 
have had much time to develop the sensitive, 
adaptable side of your personality (2 Expression). 

From age 33 to 41, you're likely to find less restric¬ 
tive circumstances. You're apt to find it easier to 
express your independence while continuing to de¬ 
velop your superior business abilities ( preparation 
for 1 Second Pinnacle with 1 Birthday, 4 Life Path, 8 
Soul Urge). From age 42 to 50, you may well find 
yourself in a period with few restrictions and much 
in the way of change, variety and freedom. By that 
time, the more flexibility you've developed, the 
more advantage you'll be able to take of the op¬ 
portunities {preparation for 5 Third Pinnacle with no 
related energy). 


CURRENT EPICYCLE 

In the current period of your life, from 1986 to 
1994 (age 24 to 32) there's the possiblity of a 
development from a sociable interest in friends to 
a considerably more sensitive concern for others 
which could lead to very close and beautiful rela¬ 
tionships. {The Epicycle starts with several years of a 
21/3 Essence, ends with several years of a 20/2 Essence .) 
This period may mark an ending or at least a sub¬ 
stantial lessening of the feelings of limitation and 
restriction {end of 4 First Pinnacle) as well as the 
beginning of a stronger, more independent ap¬ 
proach {start of 1 Second Period). 


26TH TO 29TH BIRTHDAY 

A difficult and important transition runs for three 



CHAPTER 36: ADVANCED PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


613 


years, from your 26th to your 29th birthday. This 
transition, then, will be ending at the end of March 
in 1991. This time is likely to mark important 
changes in your life. At your 29th birthday, you'll 
probably be in a better position than at your 26th 
birthday, but the period between the birthdays 
provides little in the way of signposts. It is difficult 
to clearly comprehend the direction to take. The 
apparent direction must often be accepted on in¬ 
stinct. Confusion, negativity and frustration may 
be felt until a final understanding is reached. 
Much of your energy is likely to be devoted to 
clarifying experiences, searching for the stages 
leading to a final breakthrough. Some substantial 
development of your spiritual faith may occur dur¬ 
ing this period ( 16/7 Essence). 

The period may have opportunities for study and 
introspection, withdrawing for reflection and 
meditation, searching for inner peace, but the tur¬ 
moil of the transition search will probably make it 
difficult to concentrate on any of these quiet ac¬ 
tivities (7 Essence present but secondary to 16/7 
Essence). 


1990 

..... 

GENERAL 

1990 may be especially confusing: There are likely 
to be new people, new places, new opportunities, 
the possibility of adventure and excitement. You'll 
probably be involved with a variety of experiences 
(5 Personal Year). You're likely to feel a sense of 
beginning and expansion in the air (I Universal 
Year). There may be some times of absolute 
delight, but, with the confusions of the transition 
period I previously described along with your own 
inflexibility, I suspect you may be somewhat over¬ 
whelmed by all the possibilities (5 Personal Year, 
16/7 Essence with 13/4 Karmic Debt and 8-8 energy). 

Some of the changes related to the transition 
period may wejl occur this year, possibly a change 
of residence or a change in your family situation (5 
Personal Year, E Transit). 





614 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


PROFESSIONAL 

This change might relate to work. With your strong 
potential in this area ( 4 Life Path, 8 Soul Urge, three 
8s) there may be more authority for you here or 
recognition of your practical, hard working contri¬ 
bution ( H Transit). 

If you're involved in research or educational pur¬ 
suits, this may be a good time to move ahead by 
studying, writing or teaching, possibly in relation 
to fundamental concepts. You might find yourself 
pursuing some completely new area —possibly 
scientific, religious or metaphysical —an area dif¬ 
ferent than any in which you've had previous ex¬ 
perience (7 Essence ). Your excellent analytical 
mind, technical ability and unusual viewpoint may 
prove extremely helpful ( three 7’s, 7 Prime Inten¬ 
sified. 

FINANCIAL 

Your financial affairs may fluctuate ( E Transit) but, 
overall, there may be some financial gain ( H Tran¬ 
sit). Be careful not to block possibilities here by 
straining too hard or by being selfish (I Modified 
Karmic Lesson, 8-8 energy). 

PERSONAL 

There may be new friends. There could be exciting 
love affairs but they may prove to be short-lived. 
Although impulsiveness at this time may precipi¬ 
tate marriage, I would advise strongly against it (5 
Personal Year, E Transit). 

TRAVEL 

Vacation trips or travel oh business matters may 
prove sources of f un and pleasure (5 Personal Year, 
E, H Transits). 


JANUARY THROUGH MARCH, 1991 

GENERAL 

The first few months of 1991, until the end of 



CHAPTER 36: ADVANCED PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


615 


March, conclude the potentially important transi¬ 
tion. During these months, there may well be the 
final changes or consolidation of changes culmi¬ 
nating the three year period (16/7 Essence). The hec¬ 
tic activities of 1991 are likely to subside into a far 
quieter pattern (5 Personal Year changes to 6 Personal 
Year). 

HOME, FAMILY 

In these first few months, and in the rest of the 
year, too, there's likely to be strong emphasis on 
home life and responsibilities related to family 
matters. The whole year is a time to work for har¬ 
mony and balance in the family, to enjoy the deep 
quiet pleasures of romance, love, marriage. This 
can be a fine year to get married if the emotions 
are balanced and clearly and openly expressed (6 
Personal Year). Your tendency to repress feelings 
may cause problems in close relations. You may 
have to work on improving your communication (9 
Karmic Lesson). 

MISCELLANEOUS 

Business affairs may continue to advance through 
1991 with financial fluctuations similar to those in 
1990. Friends are likely to be as important as last 
year and there are probably additional oppor¬ 
tunities for travel ( continuation of E, H Transits). 


APRIL THROUGH DECEMBER, 1991 
HOME, FAMILY 

With the beginning of April, 1991, the transition 
period, with its attendant confusions, fades into 
the past ( end of the 16/7 Essence). The emphasis on 
home and family matters continues to the end of 
the year (continuation of the 6 Personal Year). 

GENERAL 

Events and opportunities through the end of 1991 
are likely to emphasize cooperation and patience. 
This is probably a good time to develop relations 
or associations, to work to satisfy mutual needs, to 



616 


PARTY : PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


show interest in helping others with their needs (2 
Essence). Partners may develop problems precipi¬ 
tated by new interests or a desire to be alone. Lack 
of clear communication may present difficulties (Y 
Transit). 

Developments may take a little longer than you 
may expect, so don't be surprised if there are 
delays from time to time. There's a likelihood of 
high emotions and increased sensitivity now. 
There may be some health matters needing atten¬ 
tion ( 2 Essence). 

There may be a new interest, possibly a desire for 
continuing study, research or meditation. If you 
tend to withdraw or if you're difficult for others to 
understand, there may be some problems (Y Tran¬ 
sit). 

1992 THROUGH 1996 

Until your 34th birthday in 1996, there's likely to 
be emphasis on the growth of relations and associ¬ 
ations, new interests, study, meditation, advancing 
business affairs ( continuation of 2 Essence, H, E, Y 
Transits). There will be some different emphases 
added each year {different Personal Years), but the 
stress on cooperation, patience and sensitivity will 
continue {continuation of 2 Essence). 


You were particularly concerned with the begin¬ 
ning months of 1991. Let's look at them in more 
detail. 

JANUARY, 1991: 7 Personal Month 

Spend time alone in January, reviewing the past 
and present and contemplating the future, par¬ 
ticularly in regard to home and family matters (6 
Personal Year, 7 Personal Month). Review the impor¬ 
tant changes made in the last few years and, if 
possible, plan the conclusion of the transition 
which will end in the next few months {16/7 



CHAPTER 36: ADVANCED PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


617 


Essence). You may want to draw on your unusual 
viewpoint to help with the plans ( three 7$). There 
may be much excitement and activity around you 
similar to last year's, but this will probably be a 
more growing month if you spend your time 
primarily in introspective activity ( waning of the 5 
Personal Year, 7 Personal Month). Inflexibility may 
cause difficulties [7Personal Month with 13/4 Karmic 
Debt, 8-8 energy). 

FEBRUARY, 1991: 8 Personal Month 

In February, you may make a strong impact with 
your ability to make things happen. Take advan¬ 
tage of the opportunities, possibly unusual or ex¬ 
citing ones, to advance, find recognition or expand 
in the business world (8 Personal Month, waning of 5 
Personal Year). Your innate business ability and 
your organized, realistic approach should prove 
helpful ( 4 Life Path, 8 Soul Urge, three 8s). Be sure 
that your progress in business doesn't conflict with 
home or family matters (6 Personal Year, 9 Personal 
Month). 

MARCH, 1991: 9 Personal Month 

March may be a month full of drama and strong 
emotions. There may be endings here, completions 
of experiences, activities, or close relations, par¬ 
ticularly relations having to do with domestic mat¬ 
ters (6 Personal Year, 9 Personal Month, end of 16/7 
Essence). Be prepared to help others this month. Be 
as generous as possible {9 Personal Month). Clear ex¬ 
pression of your feelings and Clear responses to 
others' feelings may still be difficult for you and 
may add to the problems at this time (9 Karmic 
Lesson). 

. . ' ‘ 

APRIL, 1991: 1 Personal Month 

April heralds a time for change, breaking up old 
conditions, the start of new activities —all prob¬ 
ably related to home and family matters. This is a 
fine month to make the move you've been think¬ 
ing about for some time. As you approach your 
new endeavors, be aware of and express your in- 






618 


PART V; PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


dividuality, but keep a balanced approach so as 
not to irritate or alienate others (6 Personal Year, 1 
Personal Month). April is a fine time to start 
developing relations and associations. Be as adap¬ 
table and sensitive as possible ( 2 Essence, 1 Personal 
Month). May will allow for further development of 
your sensitivity, possibly along with new aware¬ 
nesses {preparation for May, an 11/2 month). 


Of the four months we've just delineated, I think 
it's clear that April would be the perfect time for 
your planned wedding. We'll look at all the Sun¬ 
days imApril. 


April 7 
April 14 
April 21 
April 28 


Calendar Calendar Personal 
Month + Day + Year 

4 + 7 + 6 

4 + 5 + 6 

4 + 3 + 6 

4 + 1+6 


Personal Day 

17 = 8 
15 = 6 
13/4 
11/2 


APRIL 7: 8 Personal Day 

This is a day to use your power and your organized, 
practical approach in business and financial mat¬ 
ters. You'll probably register a strong impact {8Per¬ 
sonal Day with 4 Life Path, 8 Soul Urge, three 8’s). 
Make sure to explore ventures diplomatically with 
an understanding of others' needs and desires (8 
Personal Day with 2 Expression). 

APRIL 14: 6 Personal Day 

A day to enjoy home and family, the pleasures of 
domestic life, possibly a day to start something 
new related to domestic matters (I Personal Month, 
6 Personal Day). Selfishness may cause problems (6 
Personal Day with 13/4 Karmic Debt). 

APRIL 21: 13/4 Personal Day 

Complete routine tasks related to home and fami- 


CHAPTER 36: ADVANCED PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


ly, keep your nose to the grindstone. This isn't a 
day for starting new ventures or looking for new 
opportunities. Feelings of limitation or restriction 
may be present. They're likely to impede your 
work so try to change or overcome those tenden¬ 
cies {13/4 Personal Day). Your serious, methodical 
approach can be helpful in getting the job ac¬ 
complished ( 4 Life Path). 

APRIL 28: 11/2 Personal Day 

A day for a pleasant, probably quiet social time at 
home. Cooperate with others in their work and 
enjoy your own routine. Move routine matters 
forward smoothly but don't attempt to change 
direction (2 Personal Day). You s r responsiveness and 
support may be important (2 Expression). Nervous 
tension may be present. (11 Personal Day. The ten¬ 
sion is the only manifestation of the 11 Personal Day 
since there’s no 11 core element.) 


Hope, let's discuss your specific questions now. 

What can you expect of marriage at this time? Is 
the confusion you've been experiencing going to 

continue unabated? 

... - .•> 

As discussed in the delineation, you're just com¬ 
pleting a three year transition period with much 
probable confusion (16/7 Essence from 26th to 29th 
birthday), augmented by the variety of experiences 
in 1990 (5 Personal Year). With the transition ending 
at your birthday in March, 1991, the confusion 
should, to a great extent, disappear ( end of 16/7 
Essence). 1991 is a fine year to get married (6 Per¬ 
sonal Year, 2 Essence from April to December). The 
following several years may provide a good en¬ 
vironment for mutual growth for you and your hus¬ 
band (2 Essence continues until 34th birthday). Much 
will depend on overcoming your self-centeredness 
{4 Life Path, 8 Soul Urge, 8-8 energy, 9 Karmic Lesson) 
and your repression of feelings ( 13/4 Karmic Debt, 9 
Karmic Lesson, .three 8s). The growth of your sen¬ 
sitivity and adaptability will be extremely helpful 
(2 Essence with 2 Expression). 


Discussion of 
Hope Edyth 
Lynch’s 
questions 





620 


PART V: PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


You met your husband-to-be in a year with much 
emphasis on expanding yOur life (5 Personal Year ) so 
I would expect that marriage represents a step 
toward significant growth. I'm glad that you 
waited until 1991 {6Personal Year) to marry because 
1990, with its emphasis on change and variety, is 
not especially propitious for marriage (5 Personal 
Year). 

Is February, March or April in 1991 good for the 
wedding? Which Sunday is best? 

April is the best month at the beginning of 1991 for 
your wedding. February is heavily business- 
oriented and wouldn't be a good month for mar¬ 
riage (8 Personal Month). March, a month of com¬ 
pletions, wouldn't be a good time either (9 Personal 
Month). April, a month for beginnings in a year 
with emphasis on home and family (I Personal 
Month, 6 Personal Year), is as good a time {in the 
whole Epicycle) for marriage as you can find. 

Of the Sundays in April, April 14 is a fine day, 
perfectly suited for the beauty of a wedding {6Per¬ 
sonal Day). The other Sundays are considerably less 
satisfactory. 

Should you take either of the two new jobs? If you 
decide to take a new job, when is the best time to 
start? 

Your two job offers come, again, in a year with em¬ 
phasis on expanding your life (5 Personal Year). I'd 
suggest that you take the position with the most 
long term potential using your specific abili¬ 
ties—your capability at organization and system 
especially [4 Life Path, 8 Soul Urge, three 8’s), along 
with your fine analytical mind and your unusual 
ideas {three 7 s). 

February, 1991 would be a fine time to change 
jobs (8 Personal Month) as long as it doesn't in¬ 
terfere in matters involving your future husband (8 
Personal Month may conflict with 6 Personal Year). 
April, 1991 {1 Personal Month) would be good, too. 
If your wedding is scheduled in April, though, it 



CHAPTER 36: ADVANCED PROGRESSED DELINEATION 


621 


might be easier to shift employment in February. 
There's likely to be much opportunity for profes¬ 
sional advancement through the beginning of 1996 
(H Transit extends to 34th birthday in 1996). 


The outcome of Hope’s marriage and new job will ultimately 
depend on how she decides to use her energies—her actual ap¬ 
proach to events and opportunities as they occur in her life. 
The information provided by the progressed delineation should 
prove helpful in assessing desirable directions in which to 
move. Progressed delineations can never, of course, provide all 
the answers about the future, but they certainly provide many 
useful insights. 











PART VI: 
SPECIAL AREAS 
















CHAPTER 37: CHOICE OF NAMES 


625 


CHAPTER 37 


HELPING PARENTS NAME 
THEIR BABIES; 

HELPING PEOPLE CHANGE 
THEIR NAMES 


Numerology assumes the existence of reincarnation. The 
soul, in a physical body, comes back to the earth plane many 
times to learn the varied lessons which can only be learned on 
this plane. When all of the lessons are learned, the soul no 
longer returns to earth,' ascends instead to a higher level for ad¬ 
vanced tutelage. 

Each time the soul makes the decision to return, it chooses 
what lessons it wants to learn. It may sometimes decide what 
abilities it would like to bring with it and what inner desires it 
will work to satisfy. These decisions are coded into the birth- 
date and birthname and decoded by the use of numerol- 
ogy—the Life Path, Expression and Soul Urge describe respec¬ 
tively the lessons, the capabilities and the inner needs. With 
each new incarnation, the soul also brings the Karmic Debts, 
the vestiges of misused energies from previous lives which have 
not been “made up” in subsequent lives, as well as the Karmic 
Lessons or Modified Karmic Lessons, areas of potential which 
have been ignored or virtually unexplored in past existences. 

I don’t think that a soul purposely chooses a difficult life here 
on earth, but sometimes the numerology reading shows much 
in the way of difficulty. Why does this happen? 

In order to receive the Life Path the soul desires and, at the 
same time accommodate the Karmic Debts and Karmic Lessons 
related to the soul, it may be necessary to adjust the Expression, 


Numerology 

and 

reincarnation 





626 


PART VI: SPECIAL AREAS 


Naming 
the baby 


Soul Urge and other areas of the energy. Because of these ad¬ 
justments, the resultant chart may sometimes indicate more 
problem areas than the soul had originally expected. 


The core elements and modifiers are directly related to the 
needs and debts of the soul. The birthdate and birthname are, 
as we’ve discussed, directly related to the elements and modi¬ 
fiers, and, therefore, far from arbitrary matters. In some un¬ 
explained manner, the parents of a baby about to be born (that 
is, a soul about to be reincarnated) tune in on some universal 
wavelength so that the baby’s birthdate confirms the soul’s 
desired lesson. The baby’s name is likewise related to the soul’s 
requirements, even though the parents have no awareness of 
the correlation. Although the parents may spend hours poring 
over lists of names, conferring with friends and relatives, think¬ 
ing about and discussing the possibilities, the baby’s name (or 
several possible names) is determined by the universe and 
broadcast to the earth plane in some inexplicable subconscious 
process. 

The baby will always receive the name the soul needs, but 
the most direct path to that name is through the baby’s parents. 
The name should be chosen by the parents (or by the adoptive 
parents when the baby is adopted shortly after birth). If a nu- 
merologist is consulted, it should be in an advisory capacity 
only. If the parents have several names under discussion, the 
numerologist can be helpful in distinguishing the character¬ 
istics and impediments related to each name. 

The numerologist should not suggest names; he should only 
advise on names suggested by the parents. If the parents are 
dissatisfied with the characteristics or impediments of names 
they have chosen or if they are having difficulty agreeing on a 
satisfactory name, they should meditate and listen to their in¬ 
ner voices for guidance. 

The name, of course, is always linked to the date of birth. If 
the parents consult with the numerologist prior to the birth, the 
numerologist will have to advise on several names since both 
the sex and birthdate are not yet known. I’ve occasionally ad¬ 
vised parents on names covering a period of a week or two—the 
period during which the baby’s birth is expected. 

I always express, as clearly as I can, the characteristics in¬ 
volved, both positive and negative. All names have their share 
of strengths and weaknesses and the parents should have cor¬ 
rect information to weigh in making their choice. Withholding 
knowledge about such negative matters as Karmic Debts or 
repeated elements is doing a disservice to all concerned. 


CHAPTER 37: CHOICE OF NAMES 


627 


Although the birthname is so important, most of us use other 
names at least some of the time: nicknames, professional names 
or middle initials instead of middle names. In Chapter 24, we 
discussed these other names and the way to evaluate the energy 
they bring. 

When a person decides to change the name he or she com¬ 
monly uses, that individual is symbolically announcing that dif¬ 
ferent energies are about to be used in the life. In our society, as 
the most obvious example, when a woman marries, she usually 
drops her last name and substitutes her husband’s last 
name—symbolically attesting to the dramatic change in her 
life. (Since men in our society don’t usually change their names 
in marriage, I would suggest that (a) there may be less of a 
change of energy for most men, or (b) there may be a difference 
in the emphasis on existing energy—a latent 2, 6, 9 might, for 
instance, be activated.) 

The change of name is usually a carefully planned demon¬ 
stration of an individual’s evolving nature. Like a drastic 
change in hair style or dress, the individual is announcing that 
he or she feels differently about himself or herself. 

For the purposes of numerology, it doesn’t matter if the 
name is changed legally or not—if the person believes that he is 
the person with the new name, that’s the key. Acceptance of 
the new name begins to make the new energy operative. Some¬ 
times, a person chooses to change his name only in the business 
world or only in the personal life. The new energy operates 
when the new name is being used. If it’s not being used all the 
time, it’s not as strong an energy change as a name that is ac¬ 
tually being used constantly. 

The new name should come from the individual desiring the 
change. The numerologist can advise on the traits and obstacles 
of the new name relative to the old, but he shouldn’t suggest 
names or indicate preferences on names selected by a subject. 


When helping with a name change, the numerologist must 
be aware of the purpose of the change so that he can confirm 
the probable availability of the specific energy desired. Here 
are a few illustrations from my files: 

Martin had been a writer for many years but was dissatisfied 
with his lack of professional progress. At his request, we 
discussed a number of variants of his birthname—using the 
middle name, using the middle initial, using an initial for his 
first name. He chose to use the name which best expressed 
energy devoted to creativity and financial success. Within a 
few months, he had become associate editor of a west coast 


Changing 
the name 


Confirming 
the purpose 
of the name 
change 





628 


PART VI: SPECIAL AREAS 


magazine and was selling articles to this magazine and other 
leading periodicals. 

Did the name change really account for this dramatic ad¬ 
vance in his writing career? Martin’s new name announced 
symbolically that he wanted more recognition and reward for 
his creative endeavors. When he started using the new name, I 
expect he had gained added skill and confidence, heightened 
awareness of markets and a stronger ability to sell himself. The 
name change was a public affirmation of the new state of 
affairs. 

Betty had a 14/5 Life Path and a 3 Expression. Less than 
thirty years old, she had been married and divorced twice and 
had an inconsistent employment record. In a dream one night, 
she visualized a new name—a very unusual first name and a 
last name with no relation to her birthname or either of her 
married names. She asked me what she might expect if she 
adopted the new name. Since this name had a 6 Expression, I 
indicated that the 6 energy was likely to be in direct conflict 
with the 14/5 energy. As we discussed the potential for conflict, 
Betty began to focus on the fact that the 6 energy, because of 
the conflict, could well slow the frantic pace of the 14/5 energy 
as well as adding energy to attract love and affection, energy 
that had not been present previously. I indicated the probable 
difficulty in assimilating a brand new energy, but Betty felt she 
would like to make the effort. 

She adopted the new name on the spot and, within six 
months, there was an appreciable difference in the pace of her 
life. It had slowed considerably so she had more time to ap¬ 
preciate herself and others. She had applied herself with con¬ 
tinued diligence and a clear understanding of her goals so that 
her efforts were amply rewarded. 

With Martin and Betty, the new names proved especially ef¬ 
fective. Both had well-understood ends in view and both ap¬ 
plied themselves to assimilating the new energies while con¬ 
tinuing to use the positive potential of their birth energies. 
With this kind of motivation, a name change ean prove to be a 
dramatic turning point in an individual’s life. 






CHAPTER 38: VOCATIONAL GUIDANCE 


629 


CHAPTER 38 

VOCATIONAL GUIDANCE 


Numerology is useful in determining the vocations which 
would be most satisfying and most growth producing. The 
determination of the one best job isn’t possible—the determina¬ 
tion of a desirable direction and the subject’s talents and adap¬ 
tability for specific vocational areas is comparatively easy. 


Some numerology charts indicate a direction by virtue of the 
large number of core elements and sub-elements which belong 
in one of the groups described in Chapter 20: 

1, 4, 8: business, order, system 

2, 6, 9: helping, caring 

3, 6, 9: artistic, creative 

11, 22: special potential 

If forty percent of the total of elements and sub-elements in a 
subject’s chart are in one group or if at least two of the four 
core elements are in one group, that particular group would be 
an especially fitting area in which to invest the talents. 

Six of Hal Allen’s twelve sub-elements, for example, belong 
in the 3, 6, 9 group and three of his four elements are in the 
same category (Figure 28-2 on page 493). Hal would be ad¬ 
mirably suited for an artistic or creative vocation. 


The grouping, when present, defines the general vocational 
area, but the Life Path and the Expression are the major deter¬ 
minants of the desirable career. Between them, they define 
seventy percent of an individual’s total core energies. The Life 
Path defines the major lesson to be learned in the life, the cen- 


Groups of 
elements and 
sub-elements 




630 


PART VI: SPECIAL AREAS 


Life Path 
and 
Expression 
as major 
career 
determinants 


tral focus of a subject’s existence, while the Expression describes 
the natural talents and capabilities. If an individual can find a 
livelihood combining these energies, he’s in a position with sig¬ 
nificant growth potential. 

Hal, with his 5 Life Path and 6 Expression, might look for 
employment, for example, as a set designer (combining the 
potential creativity of the 5 with the potential artistic ability of 
the 6), as an author of books about travel (combining the prob¬ 
able travel of the 5 with the potential writing skills of the 6), or 
as a music composer working in a progressive style (combining 
the forward-looking approach of the 5 with the potential 
musical aptitude of the 6). 

Marlene has a 9 Life Path and an 8 Expression. She might 
find satisfaction as an administrator (8 energy) of a social wel¬ 
fare agency (9 energy), a psychologist (9 energy) researching 
projects related to wealth and status (8 energy), or a fund-raiser 
(8 energy) for a philanthropic association (9 energy). 

As you can see, there’s a wide variety of desirable employ¬ 
ment available to Hal or Marlene—or anybody. In discussing a 
subject’s career plans, don’t narrow the field by presenting 
specific jobs but, rather, define wide areas of probable exper¬ 
tise to make the choice as broad as possible. 

An ideal vocation would include many facets of the available 
energies. A 6 Life Path or Expression might relate to creative 
endeavors, responsibility, balancing situations, domestic rela¬ 
tions, working with the old, young and infirm, bettering the 
community. An architect involved with the design of housing 
developments or hospitals, for instance, could be using many of 
these 6 potentials. 

Many people, on the other hand, use only one or two aspects 
of their energy in their work. Often, an individual selects a job 
in a field which doesn’t seem to necessarily relate to his 
energies, then adapts the job to fit the available potential. A 
bookkeeper could be a balanced expression of 4 or 8 energy, a 
more limited expression of the responsibility and adjusting 
found in 6 energy. A nursery school teacher could be a strong 
expression of 6 or 9 energy, or, if the individual chooses, the 
work might reflect the service and hard work of 4 potential. 

The energy, then, will often define the specific emphasis 
placed in a broad field of endeavor. If, for instance, Emma had 
a 4 Life Path, she might choose to be an engineer. If she had a 1 
Expression, she might prefer to initiate the work with broad 
strokes. If, instead, she had a 2 Expression, she might prefer to be 
the administrator coordinating a team of other engineers. With 
an 8 Expression, on the other hand, she might be involved in ne¬ 
gotiating and writing the contracts for engineering projects. Or, 
with a 22 Expression, she might do advance planning on large 
projects like hydroelectric dams or major port facilities. 



CHAPTER 38: VOCATIONAL GUIDANCE 


631 


Although it’s preferable to make use of both the Life Path 
and Expression, you’ll find many people emphasizing one over 
the other in choosing their vocation. The Expression is more 
commonly the potential expressed on a .day-to-day basis with 
the Life Path used only as a broad general focus. Some in¬ 
dividuals choose to use only one energy in their work and com¬ 
pletely ignore the other. A woman with a 2 Life Path and an 8 
Expression may prefer the 2 background quality over the 8 
hustle-bustle while another woman with the same elements 
may, conversely, aspire to the status and activity of the 8 rather 
than deal with the quiet receptivity of the 2. Sometimes, one 
energy is ignored in favor of the other because of the seeming 
difficulty of combining both energies in a single vocation—a 7 
Life Path/22 Expression or an 11 Life Path/ 5 Expression, for 
instance. The individual is, of course, limiting the potential 
growth by omitting development of one of the strong energies. 


If the Life Path and Expression are the same number, or if 
the Soul Urge or Birthday repeat the number of the Life Path or 
Expression, or if one of the sub-elements repeats the Life Path 
or Expression number, we then have a negative cast to the 
vocation potential. (See Chapter 9, page 87, and Chapter 13, 
page 143.) The individual should choose a career befitting the 
repeated number, but is likely to experience difficulties until 
he’s converted the negative to positive energy. His development 
is likely to proceed mote quickly if he uses the remedy outlined 
in parentheses with the repeated numbers on chart 6: the 
aspects, page 292). 

If, for instance, Roger has a 1 Life Path and a 1 Expression, 
he would do well to choose a livelihood which will use his lead¬ 
ership, his executive and administrative ability, his good 
mind—and also provide opportunities for him to learn to be 
comfortable in group situations (from the 1 • 1 aspect on Chart 
6). 


If possible, the vocation should satisfy the Soul Urge needs, 
too, but if that energy seems headed in a different direction, it 
is often neglected. Strong positive traits described by the Birth¬ 
day, strongly divergent positive Intensity Points or a strongly 
divergent Prime Intensifier may well describe significant tal¬ 
ents which can be put- to good use. The more capabilities in 
process of development, the greater the possibilities for growth 
and satisfaction. 


Repeated 

numbers 


Soul Urge, 

Birthday, 

Intensity 

Points, 

Prime 

Intensifier 






632 


PART VI: SPECIAL AREAS 


First Letter, 
First Vowel 


Temperament 


Names other 
than 
birthnames 


Periods and 
Pinnacles 


There are several other vocational determinants which are 
not as important as the Life Path and Expression, but are about 
on a par with the elements and modifiers mentioned in the last 
paragraph. Confirm the individual’s natural approach to ex¬ 
perience, as described by the First Letter and First Vowel. (See 
Chapter 20, page 185.) With the long A starting her name, 
Amy, for instance, would probably enjoy an assertive leader¬ 
ship role while Julian, with his long First Vowel U, is likely to 
prefer a job related to idealistic ends of a relatively conservative 
bent. 

When it indicates significant strengths and weaknesses, the 
Temperament should be taken into account. (See Chapter 19, 
page 173). A strong Mental component, for example, with its 
interest in reason, logic and facts would indicate one type of 
career position while a strong Intuitive component, with its 
concern with spiritual and philosophical matters would in¬ 
dicate a very different calling. On the other hand, a subject 
with a weak Emotional component should not be placed in 
employment requiring substantial emotional interaction or he 
is likely to feel uncomfortable and insecure. 

If the subject uses a name (or names) in business other than 
his birthname, that name, of course, adds its own energy, 
though it’s generally considerably weaker than the birthname 
energy. If the new name contributes a different Expression, 
Soul Urge, First Letter, First Vowel, or strongly divergent 
positive Intensity Points or Prime Intensifier, the potentials of 
these elements and modifiers should be considered. 


The Periods and Pinnacles can be useful determinants of the vo¬ 
cational direction. (See Chapter 28, page 485 and Chapter 29, 
page 499). Although the First Period and First Pinnacle may 
play an especially significant part in the life, they usually play 
less of a role in relation to the career than you might expect. 
Particularly when the subject has become a young adult, these 
formative influences should be important, but immaturity and 
inability to successfully focus the energies at a young age often 
dilute their effect. On the other hand, the Second Period and 
the Second and Third Pinnacles, the productive cycles, are 
vitally connected with the working life during what is often its 
most significant period. If the livelihood expresses the in¬ 
fluences of the middle Period and Pinnacles, the life is likely to 
be fulfilling and pleasurable. The role of the Third Period and 
the Fourth Pinnacle in career matters is apt to be important 
too. With developed maturity, the individual is probably far 
more capable of adapting his energies to the influences of the 




CHAPTER 38: VOCATIONAL GUIDANCE 


633 


integrative cycles. You can see that a given career potential 
may express in remarkably different manners, say, in a 2 Period 
as compared to an 8 Period, or in a 4 Pinnacle as compared to a 
5 Pinnacle. 

The Epicycle often gives some general insights into the voca¬ 
tion and should be taken into consideration when appropriate. 
Read the Epicycle broadly for some awareness of future voca¬ 
tional direction. 

The Personal Year, Essence and Transits don’t usually define 
the vocational energy, but rather indicate emphases within the 
chosen field of endeavor and aid in the timing of specific 
actions. Knowing the best time to begin, expand or conclude 
ventures, the best time to work hard or take a break can be of 
considerable importance. These and many lesser matters can be 
determined as functions of the medium term cycles. 


Epicycle 


Personal 

Year, 

Essence, 

Transits 


We’ll assume it’s the beginning of 1990. Enter John Melville 
Jenkins, born July 2, 1970. “I’d like some idea,” says John, “of 
what careers hold the most promise for me.” John is, of course, 
another fictitious character. But we’ll give him some help as an 
example of vocational guidance. 

Let’s first perform the standard calculations. I’ll assume, for 
the purposes of the delineation, that John uses his birthname in 
business. See Figure 38-1, page 634, for John’s calculation 
sheet. 

The progressed chart showing the Epicycle which includes 
1990, the year under discussion, is shown on Figure 38-2, page 
635. 


Example of 

vocational 

guidance: 

John 

Melville 

Jenkins 


CURRENT VOCATIONAL POTENTIAL 
FOR 

JOHN MELVILLE jENKINS 
BORN JULY 2, 1970 

INTRODUCTION 

In your life, you'll probably find a lot of career op¬ 
portunities in the business world, possibly in some 
creative capacity (8 Life Path, 3 Expression). The in¬ 
fluences during your youth and young adulthood, 
though, may interfere with your taking full advan¬ 
tage of your vocational capabilities at this time 
(Conflict between 8 Life Path, 3 Expression with 7 First 





634 


PART VI: SPECIAL AREAS 


9 FIRST PINNACLE ( 0-28) 
1 SECOND PINNACLE (29-37) 
1 THIRD PINNACLE (38-46) 
6 FOURTH PINNACLE (47 on) 

July 2, 1970 

7 +^2y+8 =17=® 

(0-28) (29-55) (56 on) 

7- 2 = 5 

8 - 2 = 6 

6-5 = 1 CHALLENGE 


6 + 

(19) 1 

+ (14) 5 

6 

5 9 5 

5 9 

JOHN 

MELVILLE 

JENKINS 

1 85 

4 34 3 3 

1 52 5 1 

(14) 5 + 

(17)8 

+ (14) 5 

1685 

45349335 

1 5 5295 1 


(20) 2 + (36) 9 + (28) (10) 1 


12 = (3) 


18 

9 SECRET SELF 


12 = 


three l’s 
one 2 
three 3’s 
two 4’s 
six 5’s 
one 6 
no 7 
one 8 
two 9’s 


PHYSICAL 

MEEE 

4-Average 

MENTAL 

JHNLLLJNN 

9-Strong 

EMOTIONAL 

OIIS 

4-Average 

INTUITIVE 

VK 

2-Weak 


MATURITY NUMBER = 8 + 3 = 11/2 


Figure 38-1 
Calculation Sheet: 
John Melville Jenkins 


CHAPTER 38: VOCATIONAL GUIDANCE 


635 


JOHN MELVILLE JENKINS 
JULY 2, 1970 


Age 

Medium Term 

Year 

Long Term 

Transits 

Essence 

Personal 

Year 

Universal 

Year 

Period 

Pinnacle 



1970 



0 




































































































































18 

N 

I 

I 


23/5 

9 

9 

1989 

7 

9 


£ 

I 

T 1 


Sjg/% 


1 

1990 

Hill 

mm 

20 



f 



-fl/2 

2 

1991 

7 

9 

21 


I 



24/6 

3 

3 

1992 

7 

9 

22 

o 

I 

TT 


20/2 

4 

22/4 

1993 

7 

9 

23 

o 

I 

N 


20/2 

5 

5 

1994 

7 

9 

24 

o 

I 

N 


20/2 

6 

6 

1995 

7 

9 

25 

o 

T 

N 


14/5 

7 

7 

1996 

7 

9 

26 

£ 

L 

N_ 


14/5 

8 

8 

1997 

7 

9 

27 


L 

T 


12/3 

9 

9 

1998 

7 

9 

28 

H 

L 



12/3 

1 

1 

1999 

2 

1 

29 

H 

L 


16/7 

11/2 

2 

2000 

2 

1 

30 

H 

L 

E 


16/7 



































































































































































_ 





Figure 38-2 

Partial Progressed Chart: 
John Melville Jenkins 


Period, 9 First Pinnacle). I'll first discuss your 
substantial potential, then clarify the impediments 
which may be interfering with development of that 
energy. (A discussion of the core and modifiers will be 
followed by a discussion of the progressed cycles). 













636 


PART VI: SPECIAL AREAS 


GROUPS 

(With a 3 Expression, a 3 Soul Urge and four out of 
twelve elements and sub-elements in the 3, 6, 9 group, 
John is likely to be involved with creative or artistic 
work. His abilities in this area are discussed below 
relative to his Expression.) 

8 LIFE PATH, 3 EXPRESSION 

You havo the potential to deal with money and 
material matters in commercial endeavors with an 
efficient, energetic and dependable approach. You 
can be a good organizer and administrator using a 
realistic, practical manner. When you're using 
your potential fully, you're not likely to waste time 
with daydreams. Your ability to judge character 
along with your ambition and self-confidence can 
prove helpful (8 Life Path). 

You may have some artistic or creative ca¬ 
pabilities which will be useful in business. 
You're likely to be extremely verbal—you can 
easily learn to present almost any material in an 
imaginative manner. When you express your 
friendly, gracious manner, your sociability and 
your enthusiasm, you can open many doors (3 Ex¬ 
pression). 

If you tend to be a bit frivolous and scatter your 
forces, you may appear too easy going and not 
make the right impression. If you are a little timid 
or afraid to stand up and say what's on your mind, 
you may not be able to develop some of the 
creative or social opportunities that come your 
way ( negative potential of 3 Expression 13 Soul Urge). 
You probably have to learn to accept your respon¬ 
sibilities (one of the approaches to alleviate the dif¬ 
ficulties of the 3\3 aspect, shown in chart 6: the 
aspects). 

Learn to keep a sense of proportion in the business 
world. It's sometimes easy to get so immersed in 
the attainment of money, possessions, status or 
power that you miss out on some deeper satisfac¬ 
tions. If you are very materialistic, obsessed with 
goals or extremely rigid, you're likely to hold 
yourself back (negative potential of 8 Life path/8 sub- 





CHAPTER 38: VOCATIONAL GUIDANCE 


637 


element). Try to see and appreciate the inherent 
values in life, not only the purely material values. 
Study and meditation on the inner satisfactions as 
well as the material satisfactions may prove help¬ 
ful ( one of the approaches to alleviate the difficulties of 
the 8'8 aspect, shown in chart 6: the aspects). 

3 SOUL URGE, 2 BIRTHDAY. NO STRONG POSITIVE IN¬ 
TENSITY POINTS OR PRIME INTENSIFIERS. 

t Attributes of 3 Soul Urge are similar to 3 Expression 
and need not be repeated.) You're likely to develop 
considerable skill working with others. Your poten¬ 
tial to develop as a diplomatic, considerate and 
cooperative person may make a place for you as 
an arbitrator or negotiator in The business world. 
Your sensitivity to others is likely to prove helpful, 
too (2 Birthday). 

FIRST LETTER J, FIRST VOWEL O 

You have a good mind and excellent ideas which 
can help you to be a leader. Although you prob¬ 
ably have deep feelings, you can learn to keep 
those feelings in balance in business dealings so 
that they don't interfere with seeing all sides of an 
issue. I expect you'd tend to a relatively conserva¬ 
tive or traditional mold (First Letter], First Vowel O). 

TEMPERAMENT: STRONG MENTAL COMPONENT, 

WEAK INTUITIVE COMPONENT 

I expect you'll rely heavily on reasoning and facts 
in reaching your conclusions. These logical deduc¬ 
tions are likely to be a strong motivating force in 
your life. Added to your will and determination, 
this rational disposition can help promote your 
leadership potential in business or politics ( strong 
Mental component). You aren't likely to display 
much interest in spiritual or metaphysical matters 
(weak Intuitive component). 


7 FIRST PERIOD, 9 FIRST PINNACLE 

As I mentioned at the beginning of the reading, I 
don't expect that your childhood and young adult- 


638 


PART VI: SPECIAL AREAS 


hood have allowed you to develop the abilities 
we've discussed to anywhere near the possible 
potential. In your youth, you may have had few 
friends, often felt alone and lonely. The forces 
around you probably felt repressive. You may 
have withdrawn, appeared cool and detached. I 
expect you haven't felt particularly comfortable in 
a business environment (7 First Period on the 8 Life 
Path). Your business talents, your creative abilities 
and your social skills may have had little chance 
to blossom ( conflict between 7 First Period and 8 Life 
Path 13 Expression). 

There's apt to be some time yet before you can 
feel comfortably free of the forces that have 
hindered your development, but it's important 
that you keep working to free yourself and to 
move forward to use the generous potential you 
possess. {John has to struggle with his 7 First Period 
and 9 First Pinnacle until 1999. His 2 Second Period, 
starting at that time, will be more amenable to develop¬ 
ment of the talents related to his 3 Expression and 2 
Birthday. His 1 Second Pinnacle, starting at the same 
time, will allow a freer development of his in¬ 
dependence and business abilities). There's probably 
been a lot of drama and emotion in your life so far 
and there's likely to be more in the next few years 
(9 First Pinnacle). Give of yourself selflessly when 
possible, but don't lose sight of your interest in 
business and your healthy desire for money and 
possessions ( conflict between the 9 First Pinnacle and 
the 8 Life Path). 


EPICYCLE 

In the next decade or so, although there's apt to 
be much struggle, I suspect you'll develop some of 
your social skills and some of your artistic talents. 
{Epicycle moves through three years with a 20/2 
Essence and two years with a 12/3 Essence.) You 
should feel a sense of more freedom and creativity 
as you near the end of your twenties. {Epicycle 
moves from 20/2 to 14/5 to 12/3 Essences.) 




CHAPTER 38: VOCATIONAL GUIDANCE 


639 


1990 

1 PERSONAL YEAR, 23/5 AND 19/1 ESSENCES, N, J, AND 

I I TRANSITS 

The year 1990 can be an important one in your 
career development. You may be able to capital¬ 
ize on the feelings of freedom you've experienced 
over the last few years ( continuing 23/5 Essence), and 
possibly find a job allowing you to break from ex¬ 
isting limiting conditions. There are probably some 
obstacles to the achievement of complete in¬ 
dependence, but the right job may teach you im¬ 
portant lessons in this area. There may be much 
activity and some false starts, so it may be dif¬ 
ficult to clearly perceive the best direction ( positive 
and negative of 1 Personal Year and 19/1 Essence). 

Vocationally, this is a good year to develop new 
ideas or interests or possibly turn an avocation 
into a livelihood (I Essence). Clarify your goals and 
start working toward their achievement. Empha¬ 
size your individuality. An important change (or 
changes) or events of significance can occur this 
year, primarily due to your own efforts (1 Personal 
Year , I Transit). Be prepared for conflicts at work 
stemming from strong emotions and high sensi¬ 
tivity: Don't be surprised if business developments 
take longer than anticipated. [TI Transit. There are 
so many relatively important cycles present that the 
average N and J Transits are not discussed at all). 


As you may have gathered, I purposely constructed John’s 
birth data to indicate just about all the problems that may sur¬ 
face in choosing a vocation. Although John has good poten¬ 
tial—and I certainly stressed that—the potential has its share of 
obstacles: the 8-8 and the 3-3 will most likely impede the 
growth of the strong 8 and 3 energy. The beginning Period and 
Pinnacle, in addition, give little support to John’s inherent 
potential. Note that the delineation addresses all the problem 
areas squarely. (Don’t do the subject a disservice by sugar- 
coating the reading.) The reading, though, also indicates direc¬ 
tions to take to overcome the obstacles. Since the influence of 





640 


PART VI: SPECIAL AREAS 


the future productive Period and Pinnacle are likely to be 
considerably more helpful to John’s growth, they are also 
mentioned. 

John’s difficult delineation is not that common. Most people 
can get a real boost from a vocational reading and, occasion¬ 
ally, get in touch with potentials of which they were uncertain 
or completely unaware. 




CHAPTER 39: COMPARISON DELINEATIONS 


641 


CHAPTER 39 


COMPARISON DELINEATIONS: 
BUSINESS RELATIONS 
SOCIAL RELATIONS 
FAMILY RELATIONS 


We’ve seen how you can use numerology to describe a per¬ 
son’s potential strengths, areas of conflict and general ap¬ 
proach. With a little practice, you can compare two people in a 
business, social or family situation and see why they’ll get along 
well or why they’ll have difficulty with each other. Or, you can 
look at a group—three, four or more people interacting—and 
develop the patterns which describe the probable person in 
charge, the responsibilities handled by each person, the in¬ 
dividuals who contribute to maintaining harmony and balance. 

In looking at these relations, you’re simply comparing the 
numerology charts of the people involved. By comparing the 
elements, modifiers and progressed cycles, you can not only see 
why people are close or far apart, but you can also have an un¬ 
derstanding of their probable present and future interest in 
each other. 

A comparison reading, like a delineation for an individual, is 
based on an analysis of the potentials. As a numerologist, you 
can’t determine if two people should get married. You can, 
though, tell them the ways they’re likely to interact and prob¬ 
able pleasures and obstacles with which they’ll be dealing as 
their lives progress. Don’t make the mistake of assuming that 
people with similar numbers always go together while others 
with dissimilar numbers never do. It’s true that many mar¬ 
riages and close relations are based on significant similarities 


Introduction 





642 


PART VI: SPECIAL AREAS 


between the parties. That is, of course, the easiest way, but 
you’ll find many close relationships where the individuals in- 
volved learn to grow and develop just because of the inhar¬ 
monious or conflicting energies present. Using numerology, it’s 
easy to spot the harmonious energies and the discordant 
energies. In comparison readings, I describe the potential har¬ 
mony or discord (there’s usually some of each present) and let 
the individuals involved decide if and how they care to deal 
with the situations likely to develop. 

For important relationships like mariage, complete chart 
comparisons are desirable. For other relations, it’s usually 
necessary to compare only certain areas of the chart. If a sub¬ 
ject uses a name other than the birthname, be sure to take the 
energy associated with that name into account. 

Let’s examine a number of common situations to determine 
the key comparisons involved. 


BUSINESS RELATIONS 


Employer’s 

relation 

with 

employee 


We’ll begin with the simplest of situations: an employer in 
search of an employee. The employer is probably concerned 
with two areas: (1) the employee’s abilities and any im¬ 
pediments to the use of those abilities, and (2) the employee’s 
ability to get along with his immediate supervisor and the other 
personnel with whom he’s directly involved. 

The employee’s abiities are, of course, a function of the in¬ 
dividual chart as discussed in Chapter 38. The Life Path and 
the Expression are the key elements here, but doubled elements 
and important modifiers are also likely to play a part. 

The employee’s relation to his supervisor and other personnel 
is related to the directing modifiers of all concerned. Com¬ 
parisons of everyone’s Temperament, First Letter and First 
Vowel are apt to show whether or not there’s a compatible 
general approach among the individuals. You can’t expect a 
precise match of the directing modifiers, but a person with a 
strong Physical component, for instance, is likely to get on bet¬ 
ter with another with a strong, or, at least, average Physical 
component than with an individual with a weak Physical com¬ 
ponent. If you try to match, say, a person with a strong Mental 
component and a weak Intuitive component with a person who 
has a weak Mental component and a strong Intuitive compo¬ 
nent, you’ll probably have two people with difficulty under¬ 
standing and trusting each other’s basic approach. 

If you have Ada, Amy and Ava trying to work together, you’re 
likely, with the long A as First Vowel, to have three co-workers 
struggling for leadership. Burt, Tom and Lucy, with less force¬ 
ful First Letters and First Vowels, are more likely to get along. 




CHAPTER 39: COMPARISON DELINEATIONS 


643 


It’s not usually possible to get the data to completely check 
your relation with your employer or supervisor. Usually, you 
can, at least, compare your First Letter and First Vowel with 
those of the boss. If your supervisor’s birth information should 
happen to be available, the calculation of his Life Path and Ex¬ 
pression will give you a good idea of his general abilities and 
opportunities and, when compared to your own, a good idea of 
your relative compatibility. An awareness of any doubled or 
multiple elements or any significant modifiers should be helpful 
in indicating significant problem areas to avoid. 


If you’re going into business with someone, the relation is 
usually considerably more complex than an employer/employee 
relation. Compare your Soul Urges to determine what you’re 
both looking for in life. A comparison of your Soul Urges and 
Life Path should tell you much about the nature of your com¬ 
patibility. Neither of the elements have to be the same or even 
similar for a good relation. The comparative elements, instead, 
should make for a comfortable relation between the two of you 
as well as indicating the potential to make a significant con¬ 
tribution to your mutual business affairs. Each Expression 
should be compatible with the specific parts of the work with 
which you’ll each be involved. If you have^the same or similar 
Expressions, you’re probably going to be stumbling over each 
other a good deal of the time and constantly invading each 
other’s territory. Temperaments, First Letters and First Vowels 
may be similar or opposite, depending on the approach nec¬ 
essary to accomplish each person’s workload. 

Compare the Periods and the Pinnacles, too. If either or both 
will be changing in the near future, particularly from compati¬ 
ble to relatively inharmonious cycles, recognize and discuss the 
potential problems that may need attention. For the immediate 
future, be sure that the Personal Years, Essences and Transits 
relate well to the work in progress. If, for instance, a period of 
hard work is at hand for both of you, several years of a 5 
Essence for either of you isn’t likely to bode well. In a numer- 
ological analysis of a partnership, clarify how you get on with 
each other personally as well as your respective abilities to 
carry your individual share of the load. 


SOCIAL RELATIONS. 

Comparisons of social relations are somewhat different than 
comparisons of business relations. Often, the areas of com- 


Employee’s 

relation 

with 

employer 


Business 

partners 


Friends 




644 


PART VI: SPECIAL AREAS 


patibility may be only a small part of the make-up, but may be 
enough to sustain an ongoing relation. 

Two people with the same or compatible Life Paths may de¬ 
light in developing similar opportunities together or on parallel 
paths. With the same or compatible Expressions, friends may 
be involved in the same vocation or avocation, with both con¬ 
tributing in a harmonious manner to the ongoing work. With 
the same or compatible Soul Urges, two people may view the 
world similarly and form a friendship. 

The compatibility of just one core element in two in¬ 
dividuals’ charts may be enough to sustain a relation, par¬ 
ticularly if the Temperaments, First Letters and First Vowels 
are likewise harmonious. Occasionally, if only the directing 
modifiers are compatible, that link by itself may be enough to 
iead to friendship. 

If the same or similar numbers appear as different core 
elements in two individuals’ charts, an attraction may result. 
Ivan, with a 7 Life Path, may be attracted to Peter, with a 7 
Expression, because Peter has the ability to express the very 
abilities and attitudes which Ivan is in the process of develop¬ 
ing. Peter may enjoy his role as teacher here, too, although if 
this is the only basis of attraction, that attraction may eventual¬ 
ly wane. Edna, with her 8 Soul Urge and Francine, with her 8 
Expression, may likewise enjoy a friendship. Here, Edna is like¬ 
ly to appreciate Francine’s ability to use her abilities to give 
herself the very things which Edna would like. Here, Francine 
fulfills the roll of teacher. If there are no other areas of com¬ 
patibility, this friendship, too, is probably going to fade. 

Although a friendship can develop from just one compatible 
element or energy, the more similarities present, the greater the 
possibility of a deep and ongoing interaction. If the similarities 
are limited, the shift of a Period, Pinnacle, Essence or Transit 
may be enough to end the friendship or, at least, considerably 
dampen the mutual enthusiasm. 


Lovers When a friendship deepens into an affectionate or loving re¬ 
lation, there’s likely to be strong emotional energy present in 
addition to the similarities which support friendships. For 
lovers, compare the affectionate energy of both partners—how 
much positive 2, 3, 6 or 9 potential, in particular, is available, 
and how much negative 2, 3, 6 or 9 energy which can be con¬ 
verted to positive. Check the elements, of course, but check the 
strong modifiers also, especially the significantly divergent In¬ 
tensity Points and Prime Intensifies. You may be able to clear¬ 
ly discern how much love or affection is being shared. 

A comparison reading may determine who has difficulty 





CHAPTER 39 : COMPARISON DELINEATIONS 


645 


keeping the emotions in balance as well as who is repressing 
feelings. An analysis like this, based primarily on the quantity 
and quality of the “friendly, affectionate, loving” energy (see 
the discussion of this energy on page 390 of Chapter 23) can be 
useful in helping a couple understand and enlarge their ability 
to respond to each other. 


A comparison delineation of two people contemplating mar- Marriage 
riage is merely an extension of the analyses above of friends and partners 
lovers. When preparing this kind of reading, I compare virtual¬ 
ly all the elements, modifiers and progressed cycles so that the 
couple is fully cognizant of their basic character compatibility 
as well as the prospects for this year and, probably, something 
of the next. I don’t read too far ahead—there’s always enough 
interest and development in the immediate future to hold any¬ 
one’s attention. 

In a comparison delineation, I compare the characteristics of 
both subjects in the following general order: 

The Life Path 

The Expression 

The Soul Urge 

The Birthday 

The Mind 

The Emotions 

The Directing Modifiers 

The Periods >and Pinnacles 

The Current Year(s) 

When comparing, say, the traits of the Life Paths, compare 
other related traits—both positive and negative —at the same 
time. For example, if Betty has a 7 Life Path and Charles has a 
3 Life Path, a comparison would include: 


BETTY’S 7 LIFE PATH 

Betty’s 7 other elements 
and related modifiers 


Charles’ 7 elements 
and related 
modifiers 


Betty’s 3 elements 
and related modifiers 


CHARLES’ 3 LIFE PATH 

Charles’ 3 other 
elements 
and related 
modifiers 





646 


PART VI: SPECIAL AREAS 


Example of 
comparison 
delineation 


We’ll look in detail at a couple contemplating marriage. 
Georgine Fletcher, born September 5, 1950 and Blaine Evan 
Carolina, born June 22, 1949, are a couple of fictitious subjects 
who, at the beginning of 1980, have asked for a numerological 
comparison of their potential. 

We’ll do a complete comparison delineation, looking at 
various elements, modifiers and progressed cycles in turn. 

First, we’ll prepare the basic calculations and the organiza¬ 
tion sheet for Georgine (Figures 39-1 on page 648 and 39-2 on 
page 649) and Blaine (Figures 39-3 on page 650 and 39-4 on 
page 651). We’ll assume that both use only their birthnames. 
We’ll also assume that both plan to continue using their birth- 
names after marriage. 


Why did I pick Georgine and Blaine for this comparison 
example? 

With her 2 Life Path and his 6 Life Path, there’s 
likely to be some strong potential related to affection and love, 
and Blaine’s 2 Soul Urge is harmoniously related to Georgine’s 
2 Life Path, too. Of course, Blaine’s 6-6 energy is likely to 
throw a negative emphasis on some of that affectionate energy 
and Georgine’s 13/4 Expression is likely to be in conflict 
with Blaine’s 14/5 Expression, too. I felt that a delineation 
with these strong harmonies and discords would prove a good 
example. 


COMPARISON DELINEATION 
FOR 

GEORGINE FLETCHER 
BORN SEPTEMBER 5, 1950 
AND 

BLAINE EVAN CAROLINA 
BORN JUNE 22. 1949 


COMPARISON OF LIFE PATHS 
AND RELATED TRAITS 

Georgine with: 

2 Life Path 

3 Challenge 

9 Prime Intensifier 

(6 Maturity Number omitted because Georgine, at the be¬ 
ginning of 1980, is not yet thirty years old.) 

Blaine with: 

6 Life Path 





CHAPTER 39: COMPARISON DELINEATIONS 


647 


6 1 6 energy 

2 Soul Urge 

three 3's Intensity Point 

3 Secret Self 

6 of 12 elements and sub-elements in 2, 6, 9 group 

(11 Maturity Number omitted because Blaine, at the be¬ 
ginning of 1980, is just thirty years old.) 

Both Georgine and Blaine are sensitive people ( all 
that 2, 3, 6 and 9 energy). She's probably emotional, 
tactful and cooperative. Her patience, care and 
consideration are appreciated. She's likely to be a 
good friend, expressing and receiving friendship 
and love (2 Life Path). 

Blaine is apt to be an emotional person, too. He's 
probably ready to help others, capable of rectify¬ 
ing and balancing situations, capable of being lov¬ 
ing and appreciative. Family and friends are likely 
to be one of the focuses of his life (6 Life Path, 2 
Soul Urge). Blaine and Georgine should be able to 
give much love to each other with much sensitivity 
(2 Life Path/6 Life Path very harmonious). 

Georgine may, at times, tend to be too sensitive, 
even shy and uncertain ( negative of 2 Life Path). 
Blaine is probably responsible, but there's a possi¬ 
bility that he's too responsible and doesn’t take care 
of his owh "needs because of his extreme concern 
with others (6-6 energy). He may still be working to 
balance his responsible side with his desire to be a 
free spirit (6 Life Path and 6-6 energy conflict with 
14/5 Expression). 

I wouldn't expect that Blaine is too concerned 
with material needs [6 Life Path). Georgine is prob¬ 
ably somewhat more interested in material mat¬ 
ters (8 Soul Urge), but not to any large extent (2 Life 
Path). Both are likely to have interests in artistic or 
imaginative activities (Georgine’s 9 Prime Intensifier, 
Blaines three 3s Intensity Point). 

(Note that some of the less important modifiers, 
Georgine & 3 Challenge and Blaines 3 Secret Self, are 
not included. Note also the inclusion of Georgine s 8 
Soul Urge and Blaine f s 14/5 Expression when appro¬ 
priate). 


648 


PART VI: SPECIAL AREAS 


14/5 FIRST PINNACLE ( 0-34) 
11/2 SECOND PINNACLE (35-43) 
16/7 THIRD PINNACLE (44-52) 
6 FOURTH PINNACLE (53 on) 


September 5, 1950 

9 + ^5y + 6 



(0-25) (26-52) (53 on) 


9-5 = 4 
6-5=1 

4-1 = 3 CHALLENGE 


. .r 


(25) 7 + (10) 1 =(T) 

5695 5 5 

GEORGINE FLETCHER 

7 975 63 238 9 

(28) (10) 1 + (31) 4 =5 SECRET SELF 


75697955 63523859 



no 1 
one 2 
two 3’s 
no 4 
five 5’s 
two 6’s 
two 7’s 
one 8 
three 9’s 


PHYSICAL 

EEEE 

4-Strong 

MENTAL 

GGNLH 

5-Strong 

EMOTIONAL 

ORITR 

5-Strong 

INTUITIVE 

FC 

2-Average 


MATURITY NUMBER = 2 + 4 = 6 


EFFECTIVENESS: 
@^- 0 = 2 
® -((j5j)= 6 

® -V@y= A 

12 


Figure 39-1 
Calculation Sheet: 
Georgine Fletcher 



CHAPTER 39: COMPARISON DELINEATIONS 


649 






B 

1 



1 Karmic Lesson 

B 

^ 2 




H 

3 



3 Challenge 

(3) 

1 



1374 

4 Modified 
Karmic Lesson 

4 



5 Secret Self 


5 

E 


6 Maturity 
Number 


2 

E 

Two 7’s 



(7) 



® 

8 Growth 
Number 


8 

E 

9 Prime 
Intensifier 



B 

E 

... ...» 



■ 

22 






Temperament: Strong Physical, 
oirectino Mental, Emotional 

modifiers pj rst Letter: G 
First Vowel: EO 


Figure 39-2 
Organization Sheet: 
Georgine Fletcher 
























650 


PART VI: SPECIAL AREAS 


1 FIRST PINNACLE ( 0-30) 
9 SECOND PINNACLE (31-39) 
1 THIRD PINNACLE (40-48) 
11/2 FOURTH PINNACLE (49 on) 


June 

22, 

1949 

S' 

6 + 

+ 

5 = 33 = (( 

(0-30) 

(31-57) 

(58 on) 

6 

-4 = 2 


5 

-4=1 


2 

-1 = 1 CHALLENGE 

(15) 6 

+ 6 

+ (17) 8 

1 9 5 

5 * 1 

16 9 1 

BLAINE 

EVAN 

CAROLINA 

23 5 

4 5 

3 9 3 5 

(10) 1 

+ 9 

+ (20) 2 

231955 

54 15 

31963951 

(25)7 

+ (15) 6 

+ (37) (10) 1 = 


= 20 = 


= 12 

= 3 SECRET SELF 



" four Fs 
one 2 
three 3’s 
one 4 
five 5’s 
one 6 
no 7 
no 8 
three 9’s 


PHYSICAL 

EE 

2-Weak 

MENTAL 

LANANALNA 

9-Strong 

EMOTIONAL 

BIROI 

5-Average 

INTUITIVE 

VC 

2-Weak 


MATURITY NUMBER = 6 + 5 = 11/2 


EFFECTIVENESS: 



1 

4 


= _3 
8 


Figure 39-3 
Calculation Sheet: 
Blaine Evan Carolina 



CHAPTER 39: COMPARISON DELINEATIONS 


651 


* 


E 





1 

1 Four l’s 

1 Prime 
Intensifier 


1 Challenge 


iE 





3 

Three 3’s 

3 Secret Self 


6 

1 




■ 

X 



14/5 


E 




6 

E 


7 Growth 
Number 

7 Karmic Lesson 

(7) 

E 



8 Karmic Lesson 

22 

E 





D 


11 Maturity 
Number 


2 

El 


V?2, 


22 

Temperament: Strong Mental, 

DIBECTInO Weak Physical, Intuitive 

MODIFIERS „ 

First Letter: B 

First Vowel: AI 

50% (6 of 12) Elements and Sub-elements in 2, 6, 9 Group 


Figure 39-4 
Organization Sheet: 
Blaine Evan Carolina 
























652 


PART VI: SPECIAL AREAS 


COMPARISON OF EXPRESSION 

AND RELATED TRAITS 

Georgine with 
4 Expression 
13/4 Karmic Debt 

4 Modified Karmic Lesson 

5 Birthday 

5 Secret Self 

Blaine with 

5 Expression 
14/5 Karmic Debt 
four l’s Intensity Point 
1 Prime Intensifier 
1 Challenge 

Georgine* and Blaine have very different ways of 
working. There's likely to be much to resolve be¬ 
tween them in these areas. {Conflict between Geor- 
gines 4 energy and Blaines 5 energy. Although Geor¬ 
gine has some 5 energy, it’s nowhere near as strong as 
her 4 energy). 

Georgine tends to be organized and systematic, 
practical and down to earth (4 Expression). She 
tends to work patiently and accurately with details 
in a persevering and determined manner {4 Modi¬ 
fied Karmic Lesson). 

Blaine, on the other hand, is likely to be restless, 
impatient, erratic. He tends to scatter himself and 
his energy and often chafes at routine (5 Expres¬ 
sion, 14/5 Karmic Debt). He sometimes has an un¬ 
realistic or unclear view of his talents. He may be 
vague, dreamy or impractical in approaching work 
to be accomplished {14/5 Karmic Debt). 

Blaine is enthusiastic and adaptable, loves to 
move in progressive directions, delights in change, 
travel and the unusual (5 Expression). Georgine 
tends to be conservative {4 Expression), often stub¬ 
born or dogmatic with strong likes and dislikes 
{13/4 Karmic Debt). Although Georgine enjoys new 
experiences, travel and social activity, she deals 
with these areas in a relatively controlled manner. 
{Georgine s 5 energy is considerably dampened by her 
stronger 4 energy ) Blaine is probably uncomfort¬ 
able some of the time due to the “rolling stone" 




CHAPTER 39: COMPARISON DELINEATIONS 


653 


nature of his commitment ( 14/5 Karmic Debt), while 
Georgine is apt to feel restricted by the type and 
amount of work at hand {13/4 Karmic Debt). 

Georgine sometimes misses the larger picture 
because of her involvement with details and her 
occasional dogged pursuit of interests in a rigid, 
one-track direction ( 13/4 Karmic Debt). Blaine, on 
the other hand, may miss the big picture in the ex¬ 
citement generated by a new interest (5 Life Path). 

Both can be bossy and dominating, Georgine be¬ 
cause of her rigidity [13/4 Karmic Debt), Blaine 
because of his self-centeredness and strong needs 
(four Vs Intensity Point, 1 Prime Intensifier). In his 
early years, Blaine may have felt that his needs 
weren't met. By now, he's probably better able to 
use the courage of his convictions to get more sat¬ 
isfaction for himself (J Challenge). 

Georgine could learn about freedom from Blaine 
while she could teach him how to better apply 
himself. These are difficult areas for both of them. 

COMPARISON OF SOUL URGES 

AND RELATED TRAITS 

Georgine with: 

8 Soul Urge., , • 

8 Growth Number 

1 Karmic Lesson 

Blaine with: 

2 Soul Urge 

8 Karmic Lesson 

22 Birthday 

(11 Maturity Number omitted because Blaine, at the be¬ 
ginning of 1980, is just thirty years old.) 

When Georgine learns to achieve a balanced suc¬ 
cess in the business world, it will be helpful in her 
growth (8 Soul Urge, 8 Growth Number). I expect 
that this type of success, while important to her, 
can be kept in reasonable proportion [8 energy con¬ 
siderably dampened by stronger 2 energy). Georgine is 
probably still learning not to look to others for 
direction and pot to be pressured by others' deci¬ 
sions because of her difficulty or fear in making 
her own decisions (1 Karmic Lesson). 


654 


PART VI: SPECIAL AREAS 


Blaine's sensitivity (6 Life Path, 2 Soul Urge) may be 
helpful, but when he works to meet his own needs, 
he's likely to dominate Georgine ( 1415 Karmic Debt, 
four l’s Intensity Point, 1 Prime Intensifier). Blaine, 
though, is probably still learning to use and under¬ 
stand money, to handle his material affairs with 
reasonable practical judgment (8 Karmic Lesson ), 
but he may function reasonably well in the busi¬ 
ness world {22 Birthday). Georgine, far more 
capable at financial matters (8 Soul Urge), could be 
helpful to Blaine here, but her lack of faith in her 
own ability (I Karmic Lesson) may limit her 
helpfulness. 

COMPARISON OF BIRTHDAYS 
AND RELATED TRAITS 

Georgine with: 

5 Birthday 
5 Secret Self 

Blaine with: 

22 Birthday 
5 Expression 
14/5 Karmic Debt 

Blaine's nervous tension may, at times, make for 
problems with Georgine ( Blaine’s 22 Birthday). 

(Blaines positive 22 energy as well as Blaines and 
Georgine’s 5 energy have been covered in previous 
paragraphs and need no repetition.) 

COMPARISON OF MISCELLANEOUS ENERGIES 

Georgine with: 

two 7’s Intensity Point 

Blaine with: 

7 Growth Number 
7 Karmic Lesson 

There are a few other areas worth noting. 

Georgine has a good analytical mind, may well 
have an unusual viewpoint or out of the ordinary 
ideas {two 7’s Intensity Point). When she expresses 
this side of her personality, it may cause conflicts 
with Blaine. 

Blaine probably has some interest in studying and 



CHAPTER 39: COMPARISON DELINEATIONS 


655 


meditating (7 Growth Number). He may need time 
alone to clarify for himself the difference between 
the material and the non-material (spiritual) world 
(7 Karmic Lesson). When he's engaged in these 
solitary pursuits, Georgine may feel left out. 

COMPARISON OF EMOTIONS 

Georgine with: 

2 Life Path 

Repressed feelings with: 

4 Expression 

8 Soul Urge 

two 7’s Intensity Point 

Blaine with: 

6 Life Path 
2 Soul Urge 
6-6 energy 

three 3’s Intensity Point 

As I mentioned at the beginning of the reading, 
Georgine and Blaine are a sensitive emotional cou¬ 
ple ( Georgine’s 2 Life Path, Blaine’s 6 Life Path, 2 Soul 
Urge). Blaine usually expresses himself well ( three 
3’s Intensity Point), although when he feels over¬ 
whelmed with responsibility (6-6 energy) his emo¬ 
tions aren't likely to be expressed too clearly. At 
times when he's taking care of his own needs ( 14/5 
Karmic Debt, four l’s Intensity Point), his feelings 
may also not be well communicated. 

Although Georgine also feels deeply (2 Life Path), 
she is probably still learning to be clear about her 
feelings. Often, it's likely to be easier for her to 
repress the emotions or not state them with com¬ 
plete clarity ( 4 Expression, 8 Soul Urge, two 7’s Inten¬ 
sity Point). Both Georgine and Blaine have to learn 
to express more clearly to alleviate difficulties in 
communication. 

COMPARISON OF MINDS 

Georgine with: 

two 7’s Intensity Point 

Blaine with: 

no elements or modifiers here 




656 


PART VI: SPECIAL AREAS 


(No material here. Georgine s two 7’s Intensity Point has 
been previously covered.) 

COMPARISON OF DIRECTING MODIFIERS 

Georgine with: 

Strong Physical, Mental, Emotional components 
First Letter G 
First Vowel EO 

Blaine with: 

Strong Mental component 
Weak Physical, Intuitive components 
First Letter B 
First Vowel AI 

In their general approach to their experiences, 
both Georgine and Blaine will respond well to 
reason, logic and facts ( both strong Mental com¬ 
ponents). Both will approach situations with emo¬ 
tion, but Georgine, in general, tends to be more 
nervous and high-strung ( Georgine with strong Emo¬ 
tional component, Blaine with average Emotional com¬ 
ponent). Georgine is more apt to move ahead in a 
practical, common sense manner (strong Physical 
component ), while Blaine's approach often is little 
concerned with practicality, sometimes concerned 
with avoiding work ( weak Physical component). 

At times, Georgine's uncertainty expresses itself as 
reserve or self-containment ( First Letter G , First 
Vowel O), and the distance created may cause dif¬ 
ficulties with Blaine. At these times, she probably 
doesn't give much affection or respond readily to 
Blaine's affection (First Letter G). Even when she's 
acting distant, Georgine still has deep feelings 
(First Vowel O) and is still aware of the logical side 
of matters (First Vowel E). 

Blaine is, at times, a self-starter (First Vowel A), 
although he'll tend to be, like Georgine, relatively 
conservative (Blaine’s First Vowel I, Georgine’s First 
Vowel O). Because of his sensitivity, he may appear 
indecisive, sometimes critical (First Letter B). He 
may provoke conflicts with Georgine because of 
these traits. 



CHAPTER 39: COMPARISON DELINEATIONS 


657 


Now, well prepare the progressed charts for the couple 
(Figure 39-5 below and Figure 39-6 on page 658). (If we 
wanted to save time, we could just prepare partial Progressed 
Charts covering the Epicycle which includes 1980.) 

Well continue the delineation: 


GEORGINE FLETCHER 
SEPTEMBER 5, 1950 


Age 

Medium Term 

Year 

Long Term 

Transits 

Essence 

Personal 

Year 

Universal 

Year 

Period 

Pinnacle 

2 

mm 

1950 

9 

14/5 


0 

0 



13/4 

^3 

7 

1951 


ESS 

1 

0 

o 


■ 

EEE£S 

Ci| 

8 

1952 

mm 

ifBW 

2 

0 

0 


■ 

ms 


9 

1953 

9 

msm 

3 

0 

B 

_ 

■ 

tmm 

mm 

1 

1954 

9 

14/5 1 

4 

0 

0 



ala 


2 

1955 

9 

■HE1 

5 

0 

b 



lEffi 

8 

3 

1956 

9 

ICT1 

6 

0 

u 



mnsm 

9 

EEJE1 

1957 


fhei 

7 

13 

D 



8 

1 

5 

1958 

mm 

IgBii 

8 

0 

01 



8 

2 

6 

1959 


■E1E1 

9 

□ 

0 



mmm 

3 

7 

1960 

9 

BEB3 

10 

0 

0 




4 

8 

1961 

9 

iroa 

11 

0 

0 



iWli 

wa 

9 

1962 

MEM 

14/5 | 

12 

0 

0 



■IBi 


1 

1963 

9 

mim 

13 

0 

0 



IlH’l 


2 

1964 

mm 

KUM 

14 

0 

a 




»w 

3 

1965 

9 

mim 

15 

0 

a 





SI 

1966 

9 


16 

0 

q 




=^i 

E0 

1967 

K0 

1 EM 

17 

0 

B 



9 

—2 

6 

1968 

9 

■EW.1 

18 

13 

ra 




B9 

7 

1969 

9 

14/5 | 

19 

0 

m 

* 


IMil 

4 

8 

1970 

K0 

MM 

20 

Q 

0 



17/8 

5 

9 

1971 

9 

KhM 

21 

E3 

0 


■ 

Blrfcl 

wrm 

1 

1972 

9 

1EM 

22 

0 

0 



0V/iJ 


E0 

1973 

WM 

mem 

23 

0 

0 



ees 


mm 

1974 

MW 

Khii 

24 

0 

0 



Et* 

^9 


1975 

MW 

■EM 

25 

0 

0 



1W/:1 

1 

5 

1976 

MW 

■EHil 

26 

0 

0 



1HE1 

b 

KM 

1977 

MW 

mem 

27 

m 

13 



■EKl 

*W 

7 

1978 

MW 

mem 

28 

0 

0 



MSS 

rr- 

8 

1979 

b 

■EHil 

29 

m 

0 

■ 

fH 

m 

III! 

mga 

1980 

mu 

mm. 

30 

0 

II 


ii 


ej 

i 

1981 

5 

mem 

31 

0 

0 



mvtk9 


B 

1982 

5 

mem 

32 

0 

0 



m®m 

^8 

3 

1983 

5 

mem 

33 

10 

□ 



mm 

W1>W 

00 

1984 

5 

EE0 

34 

la 

0 



m 

rr- 

B 

1985 

mm 

mem 

35 

a 

0 



W3E1 

i 


Figure 39-5 
Progressed Chart: 
Georgine Fletcher 



























































































658 


PART VI: SPECIAL AREAS 


COMPARISON OF LONG TERM CYCLES 
OPERATING IN 1980: 

Georgine with: 

5 Second Period 
14/5 First Pinnacle 

Blaine with: 

Start of 22/4 Second Period 
Start of 9 Second Pinnacle 


BLAINE EVAN CAROLINA 
JUNE 22, 1949 


Age 

Medium Term 

Year 

Long Term 

Transits 

Essence 

Personal 

Year 

Universa 

Year 


Period 

Pinnacle 


5 

1949 

6 

1 

0 

B 

E 

C 


10/1 

0 


6 

1950 

6 

1 

I 


E 

C 


10/1 

l 

Q 

7 

1951 

6 

1 

2 

T 

E 

£ 


ll/2„ 

O 

^ (T> 

8 

1952 

6 

1 

3 

L 

E 

X 





9 

1953 

6 

1 

4 



R 


17/8 

11/2 

1 

1954 

6 

1 

5 

T 

T 

R 


14/5 

5,3 

2 

1955 

6 

1 

6 

T 

V 

R 


22/SH 

r? 

3 

1956 

6 

1 

7 

I 

V 

R 


224 


22/4 

1957 

6 

1 

. 8 

I 

V. 

R 


22/4 

5 

6 

5 

1958 

6 

1 

9 

I 

T 

R 


19/1 

7 

6 

1959 

6 

1 

10 

I 


R 


23/5 

11 

I 

N 

B 

— 

23/5 

8 

7 

1960 

6 

1 

12 

I 

N 

R 

— 

23/5 

9 

8 

1961 

6 

1 

13 

I 

N 

7T 


2015L 

—L 

9 

1962 

6 

1 

'll \% 

1 

1963 

6 

1 

14 


N_ 

O 


20 /ET 


2 

1964 

6 

1 

15 


E 

O 


16/7 

— o 

4 

3 

1965 

6 

1 

16 

N 

E 

O 


16/7 

5 

22/4 

1966 

6 

1 

17 

N 

E 

O 


16/7 

■^6 

5 

1967 

6 

1 

18 

N 

E 

JO 


16^ 


6 

1968 

6 

1 

19 


E_ 

7" 


13/4 ' 

8 

7 

1969 

6 

1 

20 


v" 

L 


12/3 

9 

8 

1970 

6 

1 

21 

E 

V 

L 


12/3 

22 

E 

V 

T 


BWRM 

1 

9 

1971 

6 

1 

llw 

1 

1972 

6 

1 

23 

E 


I 


H3E1 

mm 

2 

1973 

6 

1 

24 

E_ 

T 

I 



4 

3 

1974 

6 

1 

25 

b" 


I 


WM 

5 

ItfelEl 

1975 

6 

1 

26 


HST 

I 


ETill/M 

6 

5 

1976 

6 

1 

27 

L 

N 

I 


■Wl:« 

~^7 

6 

1977 

6 

1 

28 

L 

N 

I 


mm 


7 

1978 

6 

1 

29 


N_ 

1 


EEZ*3i 

-9 

8 

1979 

6 

1 

30 


S 

I 




mm 

EH 

1980 

mm. 

EH 

31 

T 

E 

X 



Ksisfl; 

ZiJFM 

1 

1981 

mil 

9j 

32 

i 

E 

N 


BTSIVHl 

XCF/ 1 | 

3 

2 

1982 


Dl 

33 

i 

E 

N 


MGIEM' 


4 

3 

1983 

fcfclEfl 

9j 

34 

i 


N 


■Rim 

■IsiCB 


EHB1I 

1984 

EE3E1 

ray 

35 

i 

T 

N 

1 

mVilSm, 


Figure 39-6 
Progressed Chart: 
Blaine Evan Carolina 


















CHAPTER 39: COMPARISON DELINEATIONS 


659 


This is likely to be a very active time for Georgine. 
Since about the middle of her 25th year, she's 
probably been in an environment stressing free¬ 
dom, variety and uncertainty. There're apt to be 
a lot of different opportunities coming her way (5 
Second Period, 5 First Pinnacle). This environment 
may not be that easy for her to handle. This could 
be a fine time to expand and develop, a good time 
to break through the rigidity or obstinacy we 
previously mentioned [13/4 Karmic Debt). It's apt to 
take a lot of work, but Georgine does have energy 
that could help in that direction (5 Birthday). 

Georgine should be aware that now, and for many 
years to come, a good deal of her life will be in 
constant flux. If she gets married, she would do 
well to be prepared for much change and activity 
in the family life, many adjustments to be made by 
both husband and wife ( continuing 5 Second Period). 
At this time, Georgine probably feels the excite¬ 
ment of her strong attraction to Blaine [14/5 First 
Pinnacle), but that excitement shouldn't blind 
Georgine to some of the other realities we've 
discussed. 

This year is likely to feel quite different to Blaine 
compared to previous years. Some of the energies 
in his environment have undergone a considerable 
shift. (6 First Period has changed to 22/4 Second Period. 
1 First Pinnacle has changed to 9 Second Pinnacle.) 
There may be an expansion of the loving, giving 
side of Blaine —he has a lot to give to others, as in 
the past, but he may now be content with less 
return than previously [Current 9 Second Pinnacle 
compared to previous 6 First Period). I'm sure 
Georgine's sensitivity and deep feelings are impor¬ 
tant to him. [Georgines 2 Life Path has energy similar 
to Blaine’s 9 Second Pinnacle.) 

There's some slight possibility of a large scale 
business venture in Blaine's life. Chances are it 
won't get fully operational for a while. [Start of 22/4 
Second Period. Although Blaine has a 22 Birthday, he 
has little other . energy with which to develop the 22 
potential.) Whether that venture gets started or 
not, there's still apt to be a lot of work and routine. 





660 


PART VI: SPECIAL AREAS 


He may feel limited and restricted ( 4 energy of the 
Second Period). That restricted feeling certainly 
goes against Blaine's desire for freedom and ex¬ 
pansion, and is probably especially uncomfortable 
for him (5 Expression). At this time, he may feel 
some heightened nervous tension ( 22/4 Second 
Period). 

With that expansion of Blaine's loving, giving side, 
he probably feels a lot of attraction to Georgine. 
He must remember that there are other strong 
energies in his life which need his attention. 

COMPARISON OF MEDIUM TERM CYCLES 

OPERATING IN 1980: 

Georgine with: s 
5 Personal Year 
12/3 Essence 
G, E, Transits 

Blaine with: 

1 Personal Year 

January through June: 

15/6 Essence 
A, E, I Transits 

July through December: 

19/1 Essence 

1 Essence/1 Personal Year 
I, E, N Transits 

If ever there's a year in Georgine's life to expand 
and feel free, 1980 is it (5 Personal Year, 12/3 
Essence, E Transit). This is a fine time to work on 
overcoming both shyness and stubbornness (2 Life 
Path, 13/4 Karmic Debt) but a good deal of effort is 
involved. The more loose and free she feels, the 
more her horizons can expand. She must be 
careful not to scatter her energy with little result (5 
Personal Year). 1 expect she has a sense of control 
that won't let that happen (4 Expression). 

There's the possibility of an important change this 
year, a change that could affect Georgine's work, 
residence or family situation. Marrying Blaine may 
well affect all three areas. If she can take advan¬ 
tage of the change, her whole life may move for¬ 
ward dramatically (5 Personal Year). 



CHAPTER 39: COMPARISON DELINEATIONS 


Some of Georgine's expansive possibilities may 
relate to friends, social activities or travel. The op¬ 
portunities have been there since about the middle 
of 1977, but there probably have been obstacles 
present which made it difficult to take advantage 
of the opportunities. [12/3 Essence, 3 Personal Year in 
1978 indicated obstacles. 12/3 Essence, 4 Personal Year 
in 1979 indicates conflict.) I think she can make 
more of the opportunities now and build on those 
opportunities for the next few years. {12/3 Essence 
continues to mid-1982.) 

The same potential which gives Georgine the op¬ 
portunity for expansion also gives most of her ex¬ 
periences this year a relatively non-permanent 
character. I expect she feels strongly attracted to 
Blaine and sees marriage as an exciting expansion 
of their relation. We've previously discussed a 
number of areas which need work. Georgine 
should be aware that the relation with Blaine is 
likely to undergo substantial changes, even from 
this year to next ( positive and negative of 5 Personal 
Year). 

For Blaine, too, change seems to be in the air this 
year. This would be a good time to clarify his 
goals, stress independence, and take advantage of 
any opportunities for new beginnings (I Personal 
Year). There may be a strong change —it could be 
marriage —sometime between June, 1980 and July, 
1984 which may trigger a sequence of events 
which produces substantial alterations in almost 
every facet of his life (i Essence). 

At the beginning of this year, there may be en¬ 
joyable social activities, a high level of love and 
romance and the possiblity of marriage {6 Essence). 
From July to the end of the year, Blaine may have 
difficulty seeing his direction clearly because of 
the probable increase in activity ( 1 Personal Year l 
Essence). 

From his birthday this year to his 35th birthday in 
1984, he'll have the opportunity to achieve in¬ 
dependence by making changes in existing situa¬ 
tions which he f inds restrictive. Much effort will be 
required, but the overcoming of the difficulties 







662 


PART VI: SPECIAL AREAS 


Commentary 


may involve important lessons leading to develop¬ 
ment and growth (19/1 Essence). These lessons, 
relating to Blaine's need to be independent, may 
strongly affect his feelings about himself and his 
relation to Georgine. If he marries her, he will have 
much to work out so that he can relate well and 
still feel free [19/1 Essence with four l’s Intensity 
Point and 1 Prime Intensifier). 


Georgine’s and Blaines comparison delineation clearly de¬ 
scribes the areas of attraction and harmony as well as the areas 
likely to provoke conflicts or problems. 1980 is, undoubtedly, a 
year of strong attraction—it’s up to them whether the attrac¬ 
tion develops into marriage. Blaine’s 19/1 Essence, as described, 
is apt to place a substantial strain on the mutual relation. In 
1981, I’d expect that Georgine’s 6 Personal Year, with its lov¬ 
ing* giving energy aided by her 2 Life Path, will probably ex¬ 
press the desire to work through whatever problems may 
develop between them. From September, 1982 through Sep¬ 
tember, 1984, her 16/7 Essence may be describing some major 
upheaval in her life. This could be (1) problems with Blaine or 
(2) problems of her own which would deflect much of her 
energy from working out the conflicts which are likely to 
develop with Blaine. The early years of this marriage are not 
likely to be easy ones. 

In the reading, I delineated only 1980 in detail although I 
already had information covering the next few years. I find it 
best to read only one or, at the most, two years ahead. It’s dif¬ 
ficult for a subject to fully understand and appreciate the com¬ 
plications as well as the positive experiences too far in the 
future. The response to any experience is dependent on the sub¬ 
ject’s development up to the beginning of the experience. 
Describing the influences of a karmic Essence period starting at 
the fortieth birthday to a twenty year old is of little conse¬ 
quence. Similarly, describing influences even three or four 
years ahead are of little service. 

Don’t assume, because there are difficult or conflicting 
energies, that people won’t be able to work through the prob¬ 
lems. Georgine will have a 16/7 Essence and Blaine a 19/1 
Essence whether or not they marry. If they do marry, they will 
have to deal with each other’s problems as well as their own. 
This could lead to fuller development and awareness for both 
of them. As you can see, the advice of a numerologist may be 
extremely useful in preparing Georgine and Blaine to handle 




CHAPTER 39: COMPARISON DELINEATIONS 


663 


the coming problems as well as indicating the direction their 
energies are likely to take for optimum growth. 


FAMILY RELATIONS 

A variant of the comparison delineation is a reading for 
a family (or small group of people) describing the complex rela¬ 
tions among them. Here, rather than discussing each person’s 
relation to all the others, it’s usually clearer to discuss such mat¬ 
ters as: 

who seems to run the family; 

whose influence, though behind-the-scenes, has a 
strong impact on the way the family is run; 
who carries the different responsibilities; 
who tends to run away from responsibilities; 
who works at the maintenance of peace and harmony 
within the family; 
who takes advantage of others; and 
who, instead, tends to sacrifice for the others. 

An analysis like this is usually valuable and revealing for all 
the family members. Be sure to study everyone’s progressed 
cycles. The readings will be considerably different in different 
years due to the effect of these cycles. 


Comparison 
delineation 
of a family 


The readings covered in this chapter required advanced skills 
in accurately portraying the many possible harmonies and 
discords. Work on these readings, at first, in relation to yourself 
and others close to you so you can check your reading against 
the events as they actually transpire. 

Comparison delineations, though they often involve a good 
deal of work, may be one of the most valuable services the 
numerologist can render. 















CHAPTER 40: ADDRESSES, PHONE NUMBERS, ETC. 


665 


CHAPTER 40 

ADDRESSES, 

PHONE NUMBERS, ETC. 


All of us are associated with many names and numbers 
during our daily lives. You have a home address, a work ad¬ 
dress, several telephone numbers, an automobile license 
number, a social security number, etc., etc. You live in a city, 
in a state, in a country. Let’s examine the numerology impact 
of some of these names and numbers. 


Deriving the riillnbers on place names with which you’re as¬ 
sociated can be interesting and informative. By using the 
founding date and the name of the geographic area, you can 
calculate the equivalent of the Life Path, Expression, Soul Urge 
and Birthday and then describe the influences and character¬ 
istics of that particular area. For instance: 

Founding date: July 4, 1776 

7 + + 3 = 

(17) 8 + 6 +_22_= 36 = ^9 

395 15 6 1591 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
359254 121251 66 1459931 

(28) (10) 1 + (12) 3 + (44) 8 = 12 = 



City, 

state, 

country 








666 


PART VI: SPECIAL AREAS 


Founding Date: September 4, 1781 

9 + + 8 


= 21 = 


6 

+ 

11 = 17 

6 


1 5 5 

LOS 


ANGELES 

3 6 1 


1 5 7 5 3 5 1 

(10) 1 + 

(27) 9 =10 


-V®/ 


What could be a more appropriate Life Path for the United 
States, with its emphasis on liberty and the struggles for civil 
rights than the 14/5! The 9 Soul Urge describes the humanistic 
and philanthropic ideals of the country and the 3 Expression 
delineates America’s concern with the good life. 

And, look at the 3 Life Path of Los Angeles. Few cities are as 
concerned with self-expression, creativity, the joy of life as this 
one. There’s the 1 Expression (with its 1 sub-element)—where 
else will you find so many people concerned with their in¬ 
dividuality and their need to be themselves, and often so 
unaware of their one-sided needs? And the 8 Soul Urge—Los 
Angeles thrives on the struggles for status, power, material 
possessions, ostentation. 

These descriptions are undoubtedly accurate in the same 
sense that the description of the Universal Years are accurate. 
But although the general configuration of a city, state or coun¬ 
try can be delineated, the characteristics are too broad to be 
applied specifically to any one individual. Although the 
creative artist with the 3 Life Path may find what he needs in 
Los Angeles, so, quite possibly, will the religious leader with 
her 11 Life Path or the contractor with his 4 Life Path. I see lit¬ 
tle correlation between a person’s core elements and the core 
elements of the geographic area. The potential of the city, state 
or country is too diffused to react directly on a particular 
subject. 

Similarly, numbers like zip codes and area codes are of little 
consequence to individual potential. 


Home The address of a person’s home, on the other hand, has the 
address same impact on the individual’s characteristics as an important 
modifier. Let’s look at this more closely. 


Calculation STEP l 

Add up the digits in the number of the address and reduce the 
sum to a single digit or master number. That single digit or 



CHAPTER 40: ADDRESSES, PHONE NUMBERS, ETC. 


667 


master number is the main component of this modifier. Take 
special note of the karmic numbers. 

If the address number has a suffix like 1440 A or 367 the 
suffix (the A or the V 2 ) would be omitted. 

If there’s an apartment number or suite number, that number 
would be omitted. 

STEP 2 

If the street is expressed in numbers—like 174th Street—add up 
the numbers and reduce to a single digit or master number to 
determine the secondary component. Take special note of the 
karmic numbers. 

If the street is expressed in words—like Magnolia Boule¬ 
vard—add up the number values of the s letters in the name of 
the street and reduce to a single digit or master number to 
determine the secondary component. Take special note of the 
karmic numbers. 

Disregard the word Street, Avenue, Boulevard or the like. 

If the name is hyphenated or more than one word, use the same 
rules as in Chapter 2, page 16, for complex names. 

If both components are the same number, there’s a stronger im¬ 
pact of that energy (not a negative potential). In the rare case 
where a karmic number is repeated, the karmic energy ex¬ 
presses very potently. 

Here are a few examples: 

8212 3 /4 Main Street, Apartment 123 

MAI N 

8212 4 1 95 — — 

(13)4 (19)1 

Main component = 13/4 
Secondary component = 19/1 

143 12th Avenue 
143 12 _ 

8 3 

Main component = 8 
Secondary component = 3 

The home address describes: 

An important lesson to'be learned by the individuals living in 
the home and some types of experience they’re likely to en¬ 
counter. 


Commentary 



668 


PART VI: SPECIAL AREAS 


The emphasis on the family life in the home, and the general 
tone to be expected. 

The number of the address constitutes about seventy percent of 
the energy while the street—name or number—makes up about 
thirty percent. The lesson to be learned is synthesized from the 
numbers of the two components. The main part of the lesson is 
read from the top row on chart 2: the life path under the 
number of the address component. The secondary part of the 
lesson is read in the same place using the number of the street 
component. If either or both is a karmic number, the negative 
cast described in the top row on chart 7: the karmic debt 
would be added to the synthesis. 

The experiences encountered can be synthesized from chart 
3: the expression using the numbers of the two components. 
Generally, the experiences will relate to the Positive Attitudes 
shown in the middle row. If a karmic number is present, the 
experiences will also relate to the Negative Attitudes shown in 
the bottom row. 

The emphasis on the family life in the home will relate to 
chart 3: the expression in a manner similar to the experiences 
described in the preceding paragraph. 


Example Let’s look at a family living at 6233 Page Avenue. 

6233 PAGE 

6233 7 1 75 

( 14 ) 5 ( 20 ) 2 

Main component = 14/5 

Secondary component = 2 

The family in this home will be learning the ex¬ 
hilaration of the constructive use of freedom as 
well as enjoying the satisfactions of group ac- 
tivites (5 and 2 from top row of chart 2: the life 
path). Life here is likely to be full of enthusiasm, 
progressive endeavors, change, unusual people, 
unusual ideas [5 from middle row of chart 3: the ex¬ 
pression). There may, at times, be very erratic ac¬ 
tivity, little sense of accomplishment, possibly an 
overindulgence in physical pleasures [14/5 from top 
row of chart 7: the karmic debt). There's likely to be 
a feehng of friendliness and consideration, too (2 
from middle row of chart 3: the expression). Al¬ 
though there's an innate desire for harmony in the 




CHAPTER 40: ADDRESSES, PHONE NUMBERS, ETC 


669 


family, this need isn't likely to be fulfilled because 
family members are probably off in all directions, 
involved with their own highly individual ventures 
(5-2 conflict. 5 energy likely to overpower 2 energy 
because more 5 energy present). 

Each member of the family will accept these influences dif¬ 
ferently depending on his or her own potential. For instance, if 
the father has an 11/2 Life Path and a 6 Expression, he’s likely 
to work toward the cooperation and association of the 2 energy 
and find it something of a struggle to take advantage of the 
potential related to freedom. If he had a 5 Soul Urge, he prob¬ 
ably would want to expand his life, but with his other strong 
energies, that expansion isn’t apt to come that easily. 

If the mother has a 6 Life Path, a 9 Expression and a 6 Soul 
Urge, she probably works to keep the family concerned and in¬ 
terested in each other, but she’s likely to be disappointed as 
everyone rushes off to take care of their own concerns. A young 
daughter with a 22/4 Life Path would probably express the 
negative 4 energy, feel blocked and intimidated by the 5 in¬ 
fluence, uninterested in the 2 potential. If she could feel open 
enough to use the 5 for expansion, she could develop ap¬ 
preciably, but that isn’t likely to be easy. A young son with a 5 
Life Path, a 3 Expression and a 5 Soul Urge could, more than 
anyone else in the family, use the 5 influence to develop his 
many talents. He may have trouble learning not to scatter his 
energies and not to overindulge in physical pleasures. There’s 
likely to be much.change, activity and excitement at 6233 Page 
Avenue, but not much feeling of a cohesive family unit. 


The address of an individual’s office, store or factory is treated 
similarly to the home address but has considerably less impact. 
The vocational influence is often strongly controlled by the per¬ 
son or persons in charge so that the address is often of minor 
concern. If the subject is one of the people in charge, the office 
address is likely to have more meaning in the life. 


Although it’s often fun to check out the numbers in your life— 
the various telephone numbers, the automobile license plate, 
social security number, etc.—I haven’t found any serious 
correlation between the numbers and an individual’s life. Aside 
from the home address, the other numbers are of little 
importance. 


Office, 
store or 
factory 
address 


Other 
numbers 
in the life 















PART VII: 
CONCLUSION 










CHAPTER 41: ON BEING A NUMEROLOGIST 


CHAPTER 41 

ON BEING A NUMEROLOGIST 


Many of you reading this Jbook will undoubtedly enjoy giving 
readings to relatives and friends. A few of you may be in¬ 
terested enough to become numerologists. 

Clients often empower a numerologist with far more power 
than he actually possesses. No matter how skeptical they may 
appear, I’ve found that most people are looking for some un¬ 
derstandings and insights from other than a scientific or prac¬ 
tical viewpoint. If the numerologist can establish a sense of 
confidence by mentioning a few characteristics which ring 
true, the client may assume that everything the numerologist 
says has validity, that any advice the numerologist gives must 
be of special valtie. v I mention this, not to puff up the impor¬ 
tance of numerology, but rather to raise a red “caution” flag. 
Be extremely careful how you disseminate the information you 
receive through the numbers! 

Many years ago, a woman for whom I had done a reading 
called to ask if I “did parties.” At first, I didn’t understand the 
phrase, but she explained that she would like me present at her 
next social affair to entertain her guests with readings. I polite¬ 
ly declined. 

I don’t see numerology as an entertainment, but rather as a 
very serious and vital endeavor. I think it can be misleading or 
even harmful to feed people little bits of numerology to titillate 
them. With a little practice, it’s easy to figure, say, a person’s 
Life Path in your head and reel off a list of interesting charac¬ 
teristics, but I feel most uncomfortable with this practice. 

Suppose, for instance, you’ve just met Diane, and, with a 
quick calculation, have determined that she has a 4 Life Path. 
You may be able to delight her with all sorts of things about her 
orderliness, practicality, patience with detail. Suppose that 
later, when you have more time, you discover that Diane has 



674 


PART VII: CONCLUSION 


another 4 element, or some strongly negative 4 modifiers. Or 
that she’s currently in the middle of a 13/4 Period or a 13/4 
Essence. The information you’ve already given her isn’t exactly 
wrong, but, under the circumstances, it’s incomplete and may 
be misleading. 

When I give partial information, and I admit I occasionally 
succumb to the temptation, I try to explain that the informa¬ 
tion is incomplete and that it’s necessary to receive a complete 
reading in order to have a well-rounded picture. I also em¬ 
phasize the importance of choice—free will—as well as the 
ability which everyone has to use his or her energies in a variety 
of ways. 


When giving readings, I try to provide a peaceful physical 
setting. A comfortable study or office, one with quiet, privacy 
and a lack of interruption is important. Many people who come 
for readings are uncertain about what they’re going to receive, 
a little uneasy about occult matters in general. I try to set a 
mood of calmness to put the client at ease. I usually spend a 
few minutes chatting about numerology in very broad terms in 
order to give a nervous client time to settle down and be 
comfortable. 


Many subjects try to help make everything the numerologist 
says come out correctly. I usually indicate, before the reading, 
that the delineation isn’t likely to be 100% accurate. When you 
start .giving readings, though, it may be tempting to say as little 
as possible on matters with which the client may disagree. If, 
for instance, Emma’s numbers indicate a great deal of adap¬ 
tability—and Emma has smilingly nodded agreement—you 
may be reluctant to tell her that, at times, she exhibits con¬ 
siderable inflexibility. You’re probably reluctant to tell her 
because, if you haven’t had too much experience, you’re likely 
to worry that the inflexibility doesn’t fit very neatly with the 
adaptability which has already been confirmed. And you know 
that whether Emma confirms or denies this characteristic, she’s 
not likely to be as happy with this trait as with the previously 
described adaptability. You have to remember that the object 
isn’t to please the client or to be 100% accurate—the object, 
rather, is to communicate, as correctly as possible, useful infor¬ 
mation in the way that it can be best heard and assimilated. 

• Sometimes, people don’t see all of their traits too clearly. If a 
trait is clearly described by the numerology chart and yet not 




CHAPTER 41: ON BEING A NUMEROLOGIST 


675 


accepted by the client, invite him to check with people who 
know him well. These people are likely to recognize the charac¬ 
teristic in question. You’ll have an occasional reading where the 
subject, for some reason, can’t see a trait obvious to all around 
him. The awareness of that trait may be the most important in¬ 
formation he receives from the delineation. 

Some clients concentrate primarily on the parts of the delin¬ 
eation describing obstacles and problems. I’ve given what I’ve 
considered extremely positive readings with just a smattering of 
negative energy, only to be told something like, “Boy, I sure 
have a lot of work to do.” With a little experience, you’ll see 
this point of view early in the reading. As in all delineations, 
emphasize the positive energy and report the negative energy 
clearly and constructively. Make a point of the client’s ability to 
employ free will to make the best use of the energies present. 
If there’s a substantial amount of negative energy, be well 
prepared to describe ways of converting that energy to positive 
potential. 


Some people desiring readings are at crossroads in their lives. 
Occasionally, you’ll have a client who is looking for help in 
many directions—occult, spiritual, religious, psychological— 
sometimes with a desperate intensity. DON’T—I can’t say 
this too strongly—DON’T do anything beyond transmitting 
numerology information. DON’T advise on whether a subject 
should get married or divorced, leave a job or enter a new field, 
take a trip or stick with some heavy responsibility. Give clients 
all the information from the charts—the energy available and 
the current influences—but let them make their own decisions. 

I read for a young woman several years ago who was mired 
in a problem marriage and, because of it, working at a job well 
below her abilities. Her chart was strikingly clear; she was ex¬ 
ceptionally bright, capable of work on a significant level. The 
chart also indicated the probability of a substantial struggle to 
throw off her dependent needs and to move forward as an in¬ 
dependent woman. When I’d completed the reading, this client 
confided that the numbers had confirmed information she’d 
previously received from a palm reading, information she’d 
readily accepted as a statement of her current position. She 
could see how she was keeping herself dependent, but she ad¬ 
mitted to a great fear of losing her husband and children. She 
kept asking if this was the right time to strike out on her own, 
the right time to separate. I could only answer that the 
numbers indicated that this was a good time to learn about in¬ 
dependence if she was comfortable in doing it. (I tried to clarify 





676 


PART VII: CONCLUSION 


the difference between the numbers’ description of learning 
about independence and her own desire to leave her husband.) 
I told her that if she preferred not to make a move now, that 
this was certainly within the province of her own free will. She 
didn’t have to change her life now—or ever. She could work 
toward independence very slowly—or not at all. She could 
learn about independence later in her life when it might feel 
more comfortable—or in lives to come. I felt that she was look¬ 
ing for a very specific directive from me. I was satisfied that I’d 
left the decision-making responsibility with her—where it 
belonged. 


At the end of a reading, I enjoy receiving feedback from my 
clients. Many of ( the subtleties they describe increase my aware¬ 
ness and help make subsequent readings more meaningful 
for others. Sometimes, a discussion with a client gives me a 
new way to describe a characteristic so it can be more 
understandable. 

Some clients prefer to ask questions during the course of a 
reading, others save up their questions until the delineation is 
completed. I’ve done a few delineations where there are no 
questions or discussion during or after the reading. I’m disap¬ 
pointed in these readings because I feel that I haven’t made 
contact with the client in a way that I would like. 

I always ask my clients to call or write if they have any addi¬ 
tional questions after digesting all the information. Like the 
feedback at the conclusion of the delineation, questions raised 
by clients, sometimes months after the reading, have often been 
a source of new understandings for me. 


When I started giving readings, I felt comfortable typing the 
delineation and giving it to the client. The typed reading al¬ 
lowed me to take my time and work over what I wanted to say. 
Until I felt sufficiently experienced, I continued to use the 
typed reading. 

Most of my readings now are face-to-face with the client. I 
enjoy the give and take of a personal meeting. (I prefer to have 
the birth data in advance, if at all possible, so that I can com¬ 
plete my calculations and spend time by myself understanding 
the different facets of the personality.) I usually tape the 
reading in progress and give the tape cassette to the client. I’ve 
found that there’s so much information that it’s almost impossi¬ 
ble to digest at one sitting and my clients are appreciative of the 
opportunity to go over the delineation if they find it necessary. 


CHAPTER 41: ON BEING A NUMEROLOGIST 


677 


Some of my readings, for people who live too far away to 
come in, are recorded on a tape cassette and mailed. You might 
expect these delineations to be more objective—after all, there’s 
no possibility of feedback and, often, no direct contact with the 
client. With experience, though, I think there’s little difference 
in objectivity whether the client is present or not. 

When I read for people I know well. I’ve had to learn to ig¬ 
nore what I know about them and just read the numbers. 
That’s often been very difficult to do. 

A close friend, for instance, had a desk job which he’d ac¬ 
complished superbly, but his chart indicated he’d probably 
have a lot of trouble with an inside job, that he’d do far better 
if he could move around. I knew that he’d been working at his 
present job for well over ten years. It seemed incongruous to 
tell him that the job didn’t seem to fit his nature very well. 
With considerable effort, I told him what the numbers said. 
“You’re so right,” was his answer. “You have no idea how hard 
it is for me to sit in one place all day. Sometimes, it just about 
drives me crazy.” A little over a year later, he’d managed to 
restructure his work so that his freedom was no longer im¬ 
paired. It was another example for me confirming that, when 
the information derived from the numbers disagreed with my 
knowledge of the client, the numbers usually proved to be 
valid. 


Numerology has helped me to be of service to others and has 
immeasurably enriched my own life. The study of the numbers 
has considerably altered my view of myself and my relation to 
the universe. I have more of a sense now of the complexity of 
that universe and a glimmering of awareness of the energies 
which surround me. I’ve learned from the numbers that every¬ 
one is doing what they’re doing in their own good time and in 
their own special way. I’ve developed a sense of questioning 
and belief, of awe and understanding, of tolerance and humili¬ 
ty. And I’ve experienced a great deal of satisfaction and con¬ 
tentment along the way. 

I hope this book has helped a little in your own exploration of 
yourself and the universe. I hope that you find, in your study of 
the numbers, much understanding and much pleasure. 















THE REFERENCE CHARTS 
















THE REFERENCE CHARTS 


681 


THE REFERENCE CHARTS 


CHART 13: 

THE NUMBERS- 



ADVANCED SYMBOLISM 

See Chapter 22 

682 

CHART 14: 

THE LIFE PATH PERIODS 

See Chapter 28 

696 

CHART 15: 

THE PINNACLES 

See Chapter 29 

710 

CHART 16: 

THE PERSONAL YEAR/ 



THE UNIVERSAL YEAR 

See Chapter 31 

724 

CHART 17: 

the Essence 

See Chapter 32 

738 

CHART 18: 

THE TRANSITS 

See Chapter 32 

752 

CHART 19: 

THE PERSONAL MONTH/ 



THE PERSONAL DAY 

See Chapters 34 and 35 

766 

CHART 20: 

THE EPICYCLE 

See Chapters 31 and 34 

780 






CHART 


13 


THE NUMBERS—ADVANCED SYMBOLISM 







THE NUMBERS-ADVANCED SYMBOLISM 


6S3 


OVERBALANCED 

ENERGY 


The negative potential described by an overbalance of the 
energy caused by: 

The presence of too much of a given energy, as with repeated 
core elements, or 

The exclusive use of a given energy without the offsetting use 
of other available energies. 


BALANCED 

ENERGY 

The positive potential which can be developed by the balanced 
use of the energy. See Chapter 22, page 385. 


UNDERBALANCED 

ENERGY 

The negative potential described by an underbalance of the 
energy caused by: 

The lack of a given energy or the relatively limited amount of a 
given energy, or 

The avoidance of the use of a given energy. 




684 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 13 


1 INDIVIDUATION 
INDEPENDENCE 
ATTAINMENT 


CHART 13 

NUMBERS-ADVANCED SYMBOLISM 


OVERBALANCED 

aggressive 

constraining 

impulsive 

rigid 

ENERGY 

antagonistic 

contrary 

insatiable 

self-centered 


arbitrary 

defiant 

insolent 

self-important 


arrogant 

demanding 

militant 

self-indulgent 


authoritarian 

dictatorial 

obsessed 

selfish 


autocratic 

dominating 

obstinate 

stubborn 


bellicose 

egocentric 

opinionated 

subjugating 


boastful 

egotistic 

perverse 

swaggering 


bombastic 

grasping 

pompous 

unyielding 


bossy 

greedy 

possessive 

vain 


chauvinist 

haughty 

pretentious 

voracious 


coercive 

headstrong 

prideful 

willful 


conceited 

impatient 

quarrelsome 



conflicting 

imperious 

rash 



BALANCED 


achieving 

compelling 

full of spirit 

persistent 

ENERGY 


active 

confident 

independent 

powerful 



adventurous 

courageous 

individualistic 

progressive 



ambitious 

creative 

' influential 

resolute 



aspiring 

determined 

initiative 

secure 



assertive 

dynamic 

intrepid 

self-sufficient 



assured 

energetic 

inventive 

self-reliant 



attaining 

enterprising 

leader 

venturesome 



authoritative 

executive ability 

organizer 

vigorous 



bold 

forceful 

original 




commanding 

forward looking 

persevering 



UNDERBALANCED 

changeable 

impotent 

lazy 

spiritless 


ENERGY 

compliant 

indifferent 

lethargic 

submissive 

sij 


cowardly 

indolent 

malleable 

subservient 



defeatist 

insecure 

passive 

unaggressive 



defenseless 

lack of application 

powerless 

vulnerable 



dependent 

lack of energy 

procrastinator 

wavering 

i 


fearful 

lack of initiative 

reluctant 

weak 


helpless 

lack of self-respect 

resigned 


1 


3 




THE NUMBERS —ADVANCED SYMBOLISM 


685 


CHART 13 

NUMBERS-ADVANCED SYMBOLISM 


OVERBALANCED busybody 

ENERGY condescending 

cool 

deprecatory 

devious 

disapproving 


2 RELATION 

COOPERATION 


disparaging 

fault-finding 

inhospitable 

interfering 

intriguing 


meddling 

over-sensitive 

reproachful 

scheming 

shy 


sly 

stand-offish 

timid 

unsupportive 

wily 


BALANCED 

adaptable 

cordial 

hospitable 

sensitivity to 

ENERGY 

affable 

courteous 

humble 

people 

agreeable 

devoted 

kindly 

sincere 


altruistic 

diplomatic 

loving 

. soft-hearted 


amenable 

emotional 

loyal 

supportive 


amiable 

feeling 

modest 

sympathetic 


background 

flexible 

patient 

tactful 


contributor 

friendly 

pliant 

tender 


benevolent 

genial 

prudent 

tolerant 


cautious 

gentle 

receptive 

trustworthy 


compliant 

gracious 

responsive 

understanding 


. conciliatory 

harmonizing 

sensitivity to 

unpretentious 


considerate 

helpful 

music, rhythm 



cooperative 


UNDERBALANCED 

apathetic 

inactive 

rude 

unconcerned 

ENERGY 

careless 

inconsiderate 

self-depreciating 

unmoved 


cowardly 

indecisive 

sluggish 

unresponsive 


discourteous 

indifferent 

spiritless 

vacillating 


dininterested 

insensitive 

stagnant 

weak-willed 


faint-hearted 

lukewarm 

tactless 



fearful 

negligent 

uncaring 



ill-mannered 

phlegmatic 

uncertain 



f 

7 

S' 


i) 

3 

1 

S 

v 

3 


It 


¥ 


f. 


M' 

& 

E 


| 

iS 





686 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 13 


1 


CHART 13 

NUMBERS-ADVANCED SYMBOLISM 


3 EXPRESSION 
JOY OF LIVING 


OVERBALANCED 

ENERGY 


bellicose 

biased 

blatant 

boastful 

bombastic 

cocky 

conceited 

condescending 

dabbling 

dilettante 

exaggerating 


extravagant 

garrulous 

gossipy 

haughty 

immodest 

irresponsible 

lacks concentration 

lacks direction 

loquacious 

long-winded 

narcissistic 


opinionated 

ostentatious 

over-enthusiastic 

patronizing 

pompous 

prejudiced 

pretentious 

prideful 

quarrelsome 

scatters energy 

shallow 


silly 

snobbish 

stuck-up 

supercilious 

superficial 

temperamental 

vain 

verbose 

wasteful 


; 


r 


f 


BALANCED 

aesthetic 

discriminating 

hearty 

popular 

ENERGY 

affable 

eager 

hospitable 

responsive 


amicable 

ebullient 

imaginative 

self-expressive 


amusing 

effervescent 

instinctive 

sociable 


animated 

emotional 

intuitive 

sparkling 


appreciated 

enthusiastic 

joie de vivre 

spirited 


appreciative 

exhilarated 

joyous 

stylish 


artistic 

feeling 

kind 

sympathetic 


blithe 

fertile mind 

literate 

tasteful 


chatty 

friendly 

lively 

understanding 


comical 

full of inspiration 

lovable 

verbal 


compatible 

good host, hostess 

loving 

vivacious 


considerate 

good taste 

merry 

welcoming 


cordial 

gracious 

natural 

witty 

•. - .. f- . 

creative 

gregarious 

optimistic 

youthful 


cultivated 

happy 

original 



UNDERBALANCED 

ENERGY 


anxious 

doleful 

indiscriminate 

temperamental 

apprehensive 

downcast 

inhospitable 

timid 

bored 

envious 

insensitive 

touchy 

brusque 

evasive 

intolerant 

unfeeling 

callous 

fault-finding 

jealous 

unforgiving 

cheerless 

fretful 

melancholy 

unfriendly 

complaning 

fussy 

moody 

unkind 

critical 

gloomy 

pessimistic 

unmoved 

curt 

greedy 

petty 

unresponsive 

defeatist 

grouchy 

reserved 

unsociable 

dejected 

grumpy 

reticent 

unsympathetic 

depressed 

hesitating 

self-indulgent 

vacillating 

disapproving 

ill-disposed 

selfish 

whining 

disconsolate 

inarticulate 

shy 

withdrawn 

discourteous 

indecisive 

spiteful 

worrying 

disgruntled 

indifferent 

sulky 


dispirited 

indiscreet 

tactless 









THE NUMBERS-ADVANCED SYMBOLISM 


687 


CHART 13 

NUMBERS-AD VAN CED SYMBOLISM 


4 LIMITATION 
ORDER 
SERVICE 


OVERBALANCED 

ENERGY 


antagonistic 

humorless 

pedantic 

sluggish 

argumentative 

ill-mannered 

pedestrian 

stiff 

bigoted 

immovable 

perverse 

stodgy 

blunt 

impassive 

pig-headed 

strait-laced 

boorish 

impertinent 

ponderous 

stubborn 

brusque 

inflexible 

provincial 

stuffy 

cantankerous 

intolerant 

pugnacious 

tenacious 

coarse 

. intransigent 

quarrelsome 

thick-skinned 

contradictory 

insensitive 

quibbling 

unbending 

contrary 

limited 

recalcitrant 

uncompromising 

crude 

lost in detail 

repressive 

uncouth 

discourteous 

narrow-minded 

resistant 

ungracious 

dogmatic 

obstinate 

restricted 

unimaginative 

dull 

obstructive 

rigid 

unrefined 

fixed 

obtuse 

rude 

unyielding 

headstrong 

hidebound 

opinionated 

slow 

vulgar 


1 


if 


BALANCED 

accurate 

dependable 

industrious 

reliable 

ENERGY 

attentive 

determined 

integrity 

reliant 


balanced 

devoted 

law-abiding 

resolute 


businesslike 

dignified 

loyal 

responsible 


candid 

diligent 

manager 

scrupulous 


careful 

direct 

measured 

self-possessed 


cautious 

disciplinarian 

methodical 

sensible 


competent 

disciplined 

meticulous 

serious 


compliant 

dutiful 

moderate 

sober 


composed 

earnest 

obedient 

solid 


confident 

economical 

organized 

stable 


conforming 

efficient 

orderly 

steady 


conscientious 

endurance 

painstaking 

straightforward 


conservative 

exacting 

patient 

systematic 


r , - consistent' 

experienced 

persevering 

thorough 


constant 

faithful 

practical 

thrifty 


constructive 

factual 

pragmatic 

tireless 


' controlled 

firm 

precise 

trustworthy 


conventional 

frank 

prepared 

unwavering 


cool-headed 

frugal 

principled 

upright 


dedicated 

imperturbable 

productive 

well-behaved 


definite 

incorruptible 

prudent 



deliberate 

indefatigable 

reasonable 



UNDERBALANCED 

apathetic 

irresponsible 

plodding 

uncertain 

ENERGY 

careless 

lacking authority 

servile 

uncommitted 


detached 

lagging 

slavish 

undecided 


dilatory 

lax 

slipshod 

unemployable 


disorganized 

lazy 

submissive 

unfocused 


impractical 

lethargic 

tired 

unproductive 


incompetent 

narrow 

unaccountable 

weak-kneed 


indifferent 

inefficient 

negligent 

unadaptable 

weak-willed 


t 

i;- 







688 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 13 


CHART 13 

(UMBERS-ADVANCED SYMBOLISJ 


5 CONSTRUCTIVE FREEDOM 


OVERBALANCED 

agitated 

heedless 

nervous 

thrill-seeking 

ENERGY 

arbitrary 

hysterical 

outlandish 

unaccountable 


audacious 

ill-advised 

overactive 

unbridled 


bizarre 

impatient 

over-indulgent 

uncontrollable 


capricious 

impetuous 

over-sexed 

unconventional 


careless 

imprudent 

peculiar 

unexpected 


contrary 

impulsive 

rash 

unpredictable 


debauched 

inconsistent 

reckless 

unprepared 


dissatisfied 

incontinent 

regretful 

unreliable 


drinker 

indiscriminate 

restless 

unrestrained 


eccentric 

injudicious 

scandalizing 

unstable 


erratic 

insatiable 

self-indulgent 

unsteady 


excitable 

intemperate 

shallow 

unusual 


extravagant 

irresponsible 

shocking 

wanton 


forgetful 

licentious 

skittish 

wasteful 


frenzied 

loose 

spendthrift 

wayward 


frivolous 

mercurial 

superficial 

wild 


gluttonous 

‘ negligent 

thoughtless 



BALANCED 

ENERGY 


UNDERBALANCED 

ENERGY 


active 

energetic 

independent 

quick 

adaptable 

enterprising 

individual 

resourceful 

adventurous 

entertaining 

informal 

sales ability 

affable 

enthusiastic 

inquisitive 

skillful 

agreeable 

emancipated 

intuitive 

sociable 

alert 

exciting 

inventive 

spirited 

amicable 

expansive 

lively 

spontaneous 

animated 

exuberant 

malleable 

stylish 

ardent 

flair 

many-sided 

talented 

broadminded 

flexible 

merry 

unconventional 

changeable 

footloose 

natural 

unconfined 

charming 

forward-looking 

non-conformist 

unique 

clever 

free 

opportunist 

unprejudiced 

convivial 

free-thinking 

original 

up-to-date 

creative 

friendly 

plain-spoken 

venturesome 

curious 

fun-loving 

pliant 

versatile 

daring 

gifted 

productive 

vigorous 

dashing 

gracious 

proficient 

warm 

delightful 

gregarious 

progressive 

whimsical 

demonstrative 

go-getting 

prolific 

willing 

dynamic 

hospitable 

promotor 

witty 

eager 

imaginative 

questioning 


apathetic 

dull 

ineffective 

unadaptable 

behind the times 

fear of freedom 

old-fashioned 

uncertain 

boring 

fear of new 

out of date 

undecided 

cautious 

fear of progressive 

passionless 

Undemonstrative 

colorless 

fear of risks 

purposeless 

unimaginative 

conforming 

hesitant 

spiritless 

unresponsive 

doubtful 

inactive 

stagnant 

unsure 

dubious 

indecisive 

static 

vague 





THE NUMBERS-ADVANCED SYMBOLISM 


689 


CHART 


13 


UMBERS-ADVANCED SYMBOLIS? 


BALANCE 

RESPONSIBILITY 

LOVE 


OVERBALANCED 

ENERGY 


anxious 

, discouraged 

jittery 

over-responsible 

smothering 

apprehensive 

disheartened 

loser 

over-sensitive 

suspicious 

argumentative 

dismayed 

malcontent 

overwhelmed 

troubled 

bitter 

dissatisfied 

martyr-complex 

panicky 

uneasy 

complaining 

drudge 

meddlesome 

pessimistic 

unforgiving 

conforming 

envious 

melancholy 

possessive 

unhappy 

conventional 

faint-hearted 

negative 

quibbling 

unkind 

critical 

fault-finding 

nervous 

regretful 

upset 

defeated 

fearful 

obstructing 

resentful 

victimized 

dependent 

hindering 

officious 

sacrificing 

vindictive 

despairing 

inferior 

over-emotional 

servile 

weak 

discontent 

interfering 

over-involvement 

slavish 

worried 


BALANCED 

ENERGY 


accommodating 

conscientious 

feeling 

loyal 

soft-hearted 

accountable 

concerned with home, 

fervent 

moral 

solid 

adjusting 

family and children 

friendly 

obliging 

steady 

admiring 

considerate 

generous 

pacifying 

stable 

advising 

constant 

genial 

passionate 

supportive 

affectionate 

content 

gracious 

patient 

sympathetic 

altruistic 

cordial 

happy 

peace-making 

tasteful 

amiable 

creative 

healing 

philanthropic 

teaching 

appreciative 

decent 

helpful 

protective 

temperate 

approving ... - 

,.r demonstrative 

honOrable 

romantic 

tender 

ardent 

dependable 

hospitable 

resolute 

tolerant 

artistic . 

devoted 

humanitarian 

resourceful 

tranquil 

balancing 

disarming 

idealistic 

responsible 

trustworthy 

benevolent 

domestic 

imaginative 

sacrificing 

uncomplaining 

careful 

dutiful 

indulgent 

satisfied 

understanding 

charitable 

earnest 

kind 

sentimental 

unselfish 

compassionate 

emotional 

likable 

serving 

virtuous 

complimentary 

ethical 

lovable 

sharing 

well-intentioned 

conciliatory 

faithful 

loving 

sincere 

wise 


congenial 


UNDERBALANCED 

ENERGY 


biased 

harsh 

irresponsible 

phlegmatic 

unforgiving 

bigoted 

heedless 

lax 

prejudiced 

unfriendly 

callous 

hostile 

listless 

provincial 

ungracious 

cool 

ill-natured 

loveless 

selfish 

unimaginative 

cranky 

impassive 

lukewarm 

self-seeking 

uninvolved 

crotchety 

impersonal 

nasty 

slipshod 

unkind 

cynical 

inattentive 

negligent 

sullen 

unloved 

dishonest 

inconstant 

non-committal 

tactless 

unloving 

disillusioned 

indifferent 

opinionated 

unaccountable 

unorganized 

disinterested 

inhospitable 

parochial 

uncaring 

unreasoning 

disloyal 

insensitive 

passionless 

unconcerned 

unreliable 

distant 

insipid 

pedantic 

uncooperative 

unresponsive 

greedy 

intolerant 

petty 

unfeeling 

unsympathetic 







690 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 13 


CHART 


13 


UMBERS-ADVANCED SYMBOLISP 


ANALYSIS 

UNDERSTANDING 


OVERBALANCED 

ENERGY 


agnostic 

disparaging 

indecisive 

odd 

stubborn 

aloof 

dissident 

indifferent 

opinionated 

suppresses feelings 

antisocial 

distant 

inferiority complex 

out of touch 

suppressive 

anxious 

distrustful 

inflexible 

over-analytical 

suspicious 

aprehensive 

dogmatic 

insecure 

pedantic 

taciturn 

bigoted 

eccentric 

insensitive 

perfectionist 

tactless 

callous 

evasive 

intimidated 

pessimistic 

thick-skinned 

caustic 

extreme different 

intimidating 

powerless 

timid 

contrary 

wavelength 

intransigent 

prudish 

unadaptable 

controlled 

extremist 

jealous 

puritanical 

uncomplimentary 

controlling 

fanatic 

joyless 

repressed 

uncompromising 

cool 

fault-finding 

malcontent 

reserved 

undemonstrative 

crank 

fearful 

melancholy 

reticent 

unfeeling 

critical 

fussy 

misanthropic 

retiring 

unrealistic 

cunning 

guarded 

monosyllabic 

sarcastic 

unresponsive 

cynical 

hesitant 

nervous 

secretive 

unsociable 

deceitful 

humorless 

non-committal 

self-conscious 

wary 

derisive 

hypercritical 

nonconformist 

selfish 

weak 

despairing 

impatient 

obsessed 

shy 

wily 

detached 

impersonal 

obstructive 

spineless 

withdrawn 

devious 

impractical 

obtuse 

stoic 

worried 


BALANCED 

ENERGY 

accurate 

dependable 

inquisitive 

occult interests 

respectable 

analytical 

devout 

inspired 

original 

responsible 

astute 

different wavelength 

instinctive 

patient 

rigorous 

attentive 

diligent 

intellectual 

peaceful 

scholarly 

austere 

discriminating 

introspective 

penetrating thinker 

scientific 

authoritative 

dreamer 

intuitive 

perceptive 

searching 

bookish 

efficient 

inventive 

philosophical 

sincere 

broad-minded 

^enlightened 

investigator 

poised 

skillful 

calm 

erudite 

logical 

probing 

spiritual 

capable 

exact . 

learned 

profound 

studious 

cerebral 

expert 

mature 

psychic 

technical 

clairaudient 

faithful 

meditative 

pure 

telepathic 

clairvoyant 

fertile mind 

mental 

rational 

theoretical 

competent 

gifted 

metaphysical 

reasoning 

truth-seeker 

conscientious 

idealistic 

interests 

reflective 

unworldly 

contemplative 

imperturbable 

meticulous 

religious 

visionary 

creative 

individualistic 

mystical 

researcher 

well-read 

deep 

influential 

observant , 

resourceful 

wise 

deliberate 

ingenious 




UNDERBALANCED 

ENERGY 


amateurish 

awkward 

backward 

blank 

dense 

disregarded 

dull 

empty-headed 


foolish 

forgetful 

gauche 

inane 

incompetent 

ineffectual 

inexperienced 

ignorant 


illiterate 
immature 
lack of depth 
lack of faith 
lack of poise 
muddle-headed 
mystified 
naive 


overlooked 

short-sighted 

silly 

simple 

slow 

superficial 

uncertain 


undeveloped 

unenlightened 

uninformed 

unqualified 

unthinking 

untrained 

vague 





THE NUMBERS—ADVANCED SYMBOLISM 


691 


■f. 

S' 




CHART "| O 



O 



if 

if 

£• 



lo 



O MATERIAL SATISFACTION 

i 


NUMBERS-ADVANCED SYMBOLISM 







i 

OVERBALANCED 






£ 


ENERGY 






% 


abuses power 

combative 

ill-bred 

opinionated 

tactless 

1 


abusive 

contemptible 

ill-mannered 

over-ambitious 

tense 

tl 


adamant 

contentious 

impatient 

pedantic 

thoughtless 

g 


aggressive 

contrary 

imprudent 

possessive 

threatening 

if 


avaricious 

cool 


inconsiderate 

prejudiced 

uncaring 

■i 


awkward 

corrupt 


indecent 

provincial 

uncooperative 



bad taste 

crude 


indifferent 

quarrelsome 

uncouth 



biased 

demanding 

inflexible 

rebellious 

undignified 



bigoted 

dishonest 

insensitive 

repressive 

unfeeling 

b 


blatant 

disreputable 

intolerant 

restrictive 

ungracious 



blunt 

egotistical 

irresponsible 

rigid 

unprincipled 

S 


boorish 

fanatic 


lacking trust 

scheming 

unreasonable 

ft 


bullying 

fascist 


lawless 

selfish 

unreliable 

?: 


callous 

fraudulent 

militant 

self-indulgent 

unresponsive 

i 


cantankerous 

gaudy 


materialistic 

shameless 

unsociable 

4 


chauvinistic 

gross 


myopic 

sneaky 

unsympathetic 



clumsy 

hard 


narrow-minded 

stiff 

unyielding 



coarse 

hidebound 

negligent 

strait-laced 

vulgar 



cold-blooded 

hot-headed 

one-track mind 

stubborn 


rj 


BALANCED 








ENERGY 








administrator 

courageous 

forceful 

persevering 

self-confident 



affirmative 

dedicated 

frank 

planner 

self-reliant 



ambitious 

definite 


good judgment 

positive 

self-possessed 



appreciative 

dependable 

governing 

powerful 

serious 

y 


assertive 

dignified 

high-powered 

practical 

shrewd 

h 


assured 

direct 


honest 

pragmatic 

skillful 

•• 


astute r 

director 

honorable 

preeminent 

spirited 

?; 


authoritative 

disciplined 

industrious 

principled 

stamina 



businesslike 

discriminating 

influential 

progressive 

status 

'i 


candid 

dynamic 

initiating 

prosperous 

straightforward 



capable 

earnest 


integrity 

prudent 

strong 

■1 


clear-headed 

effective 

leadership 

realistic 

successful 

| 


clever 

efficient 

loyal 

reliable 

supervising 

| 


commanding 

energetic 

manager 

resolute 

supportive 

1 


compelling 

enterprising 

material freedom 

resourceful 

systematic 

1 


competent 

enthusiastic 

money maker 

respected 

upright 

t 


confident 

executive ability 

opportunist 

responsible 

venturesome 



conscientious 

far-sighted 

organizer 

ruling 

vigorous 

T 


consistent 

financial awareness 

persuasive 




■ 

UNDERBALANCED 





1 


ENERGY 








apathetic 

feeble 


lack of perspective 

poor judgment 

undisciplined 

£ 


careless 

inept 


in material matters 

procrastinating 

uninterested 

5 


cheating 

illogical 

lazy 

restricted 

unorganized 

; 


circumscribed 

immature 

limited 

shameless 

unprepared 



cowardly 

impractical 

misdirected 

short-sighted 

unrealistic 



defenseless 

inattentive 

narrow 

slipshod 

unreliable 



dishonest 

incoherent 

negligent 

slovenly 

unresponsive 

> 


disorderly 

indifferent 

nervous 

spiritless 

unsteady 

V 


disreputable 

insecure 

non-observant 

timid 

vulnerable 



fearful 

lack of confidence 

oblivious 

uncaring 

weak 


■ 

fear of failure 






- £ 

■ 

.1 




692 

CHART 13 I 

NUMBERS-ADVANCED SYMBOLISM 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 13 


9 SELFLESSNESS 

HUMANITARIANISM 


OVERBALANCED 

ENERGY 


avaricious 

discourteous 

impractical 

over-emotional 

temperamental 

s 

biased 

disloyal 

indecisive 

pedaintic 

tiresome 


bigoted 

dissatisfied 

indiscreet 

pessimistic 

unaccountable 


bitter 

dogmatic 

ineffective 

petty 

uncertain 

l 

capricious 

doubtful 

inexperienced 

possessive 

unfaithful 


changeable 

downcast 

injudicious 

prejudiced 

unimaginative 


chauvinist 

dreamer 

insecure 

provincial 

uninvolved 


confusing 

egotistic 

intolerant 

quarrelsome 

unpleasant 


cowardly 

crank 

elusive 

evasive 

irascible 

irresponsible 

resentful 

selfish 

unreasonable 

unreliable 

i: 

jl 

cross 

faint-hearted 

jealous 

self-centered 

unsmiling 


deceiving 

fearful 

joyless 

short-sighted 

unstable 

s; 

defeatist 

fickle 

meek 

shy 

unsteady 

?; 

: i 

l 

T 

dejected 

forbidding 

melancholy 

submissive 

unsympathetic 

demanding 

foolish 

misanthropic 

sullen 

vacillating 

depressed 

gloomy 

moody 

superficial 

vague 

y 

despondent 

grasping 

mournful 

sullen 

victimized 


disapproving 

greedy 

naive 

superficial 

wavering 

,5 

disconsolate 

discontent 

grouchy 

humorless 

narrow-minded 

non-cooperative 

tactless 

tedious 

weak-kneed 

;2 


BALANCED 



ENERGY 



affectionate 

cordial 

generous 

agreeable 

creative 

genial 

altruistic 

decent 

gracious 

amiable 

dedicated 

helpful 

ardent 

demonstrative 

hospitable 

artistic 

devoted 

high-minded 

benevolent 

discriminating 

humane 

broadminded 

emotional 

humble 

capable 

enlightened 

idealistic 

charitable 

enthusiastic 

impassioned 

chivalrous 

fair-minded' 

impressionable 

compassionate 

faithful 

indulgent 

compatible 

feeling . 

inspired 

compliant 

forbearing 

intense 

considerate 

forgiving 

intuitive 

cooperative 

friendly 

kindly 


liberal 

sensitive 


loving 

sentimental 


loyal 

soft-hearted 


merciful 

staunch 


missionary 

sympathetic 


modest 

tactful 


passionate 

tender 


philanthropic 

tolerant 


prudent 

trustworthy 


reasonable 

understanding 

1 

reliable 

unprejudiced 

ji 

responsible 

warm 

s 

responsive 

welcoming 

ij 

selfless 

well-intentioned 

•! 

self-sacrificing 

willing 



ji 


UNDERBALANCED 

ENERGY 


aloof 

harsh 

lack of compassion 

strait-laced 

unemotional 

apathetic 

headstrong 

limited 

stubborn 

unenthusiastic 

biased 

hidebound 

listless 

tactless 

unfeeling 

bigoted 

ill-disposed 

narrow 

thick-skinned 

unforgiving 

callous 

impassive 

obstinate 

ultraconservative 

unkind 

circumscribed 

impersonal 

oppressiye 

unbending 

unresponsive 

detached 

indifferent 

passionless 

uncaring 

unsympathetic 

discouraged 

inflexible 

prejudiced 

unconcerned 

unyielding 

disloyal 

inhospitable 

repressed 

uncooperative 

vindictive 

distant 

intolerant 

restricted 

undemonstrative 

willful 

half-hearted 

insensitive 

rigid 







THE NUMBERS —ADVANCED SYMBOLISM 


693 


1 _____—— - 

11 ILLUMINATION 


CHART 13 

NUMBERS-ADVANCED SYMBOLISM 


OVERBALANCED 

ENERGY 


absolute fiery 

crusading hysterical 

dogmatic impractical 

extreme nervousness impassioned 
extreme tension lack of humanity 

formalistic lost in dreams 

fanatic misguided 

fervent 


obsessed 

opinionated 

over-righteous 

overzealous 

overwrought 

ritualistic 

uncontrollable 


1 


undoubting ^ 

unequivocal £ 

unquestioning 3 

unrealistic | 

unreasonable [3 

very high strung it 

warped viewpoint '* 


BALANCED 

ENERGY 


absent-minded 

exhilarating 

mystical 

religious 

aware 

faithful 

nervous 

revealing truth 

clairaudient 

guiding 

occult interests 

reverent 

clairvoyant 

high-strung 

oracular 

saintly 

compelling 

idealistic 

pensive 

sensitive 

contemplative 

imaginative 

perceptive 

spiritual 

contributing 

impressionable 

poetic 

stimulating 

creative 

influencing 

prayerful 

tactful 

dedicated 

inspired 

progressive 

telepathic 

devout 

inspiring 

prophetic 

tense 

discerning 

instinctive 

psychic 

theological 

discriminating 

intuitive 

pure 

unworldly 

dreamy 

encouraging 

inventive 

meditative 

reforming 

visionary 


UNDERBALANCED 

aimless 

inactive 

obtuse 

undirected 

£ 

ENERGY 

aloof 

indifferent 

pedantic 

unenthusiastic 

3 

amateurish 

indiscreet 

provincial 

unfeeling 

|i 


apathetic 

indiscriminate 

slow 

unfocused 

Li 


biased 

inexperienced 

spiritless 

unimaginative 

1 


bumbling 

lethargic 

submissive 

uninformed 

n 


detached 

lifeless 

tactless 

unresponsive 



dull 

lukewarm 

torpid 




fearful of occult 

myopic 

unaffected 

(The underbalance of 



fearful of psychic 
feeble 

narrow 

negligent 

unaware 

uncertain 

both master numbers 
are similar.) 

i 


impractical 




V 








694 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 13 


CHART 


13 


UMBERS-ADVANCED SYMBOLIS 


22 


MASTER BUILDER 


OVERBALANCED 

ENERGY 


absolute 

extreme nervousness 

misusing power 

pressuring 

abusive 

extreme tension 

obsessed 

pretentious 

blatant 

fanatical 

opinionated 

self-important 

coercive 

fiery 

oppressing 

squandering 

conceited 

frantic 

ostentatious 

swaggering 

confused 

frenzied 

overdoing 

turbulent 

disorganized 

hysterical 

overwhelmed 

uncontrollable 

dogmatic 

indiscriminate 

overwhelming 

undisciplined 

dominating 

manipulative 

overwrought 

vain 

egotistic 

mismanaging 

perverted 

very high-strung 

exaggerating 

misrepresenting 

pompous 



BALANCED 

ENERGY 


achieving 

enterprising 

inspirational 

purposeful 

active 

enthusiastic 

inspired 

recognized 

altruistic 

expert 

intense 

reforming 

authoritative 

forceful 

inventive 

resourceful 

benevolent 

goal-oriented 

liberal 

rewarded 

bettering 

guiding 

masterly 

successful 

compelling 

high-strung 

nervous 

superior 

constructive 

humane 

organizing 

stimulating 

contributing 

humanitarian 

planning 

strong 

creative 

idealistic 

powerful 

tense 

dynamic 

imaginative 

practical 

uplifting 

effective 

impelling 

productive 

vigorous 

efficient 

influencing 

progressive 

visionary 

energetic 

■ influential 

promoting 

well-intentioned 

enlightened 

ingenious 



UNDERBALANCED 

ENERGY 


aimless 

aloof 

amateurish 

apathetic 

biased 

bumbling 

detached 

dull 

feeble 


impractical 

obtuse 

unenthusiastic 

inactive 

slow 

unfocused 

indifferent 

spiritless 

unimaginative 

inexperienced 

submissive 

uninformed 

lethargic 

torpid 


lifeless 

unaffected 

(The underbalance of 

lukewarm 

uncertain 

both master numbers 

negligent 

undirected 

are similar.) 










! 

i 




















696 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 14 












697 

THE LIFE PATH PERIODS ___£ 


g 

..... . : it 

• ' , i' 

rf 

----- s 


2 

GENERAL The three Life Path Periods describe the probable general influences in | 

the three phases of the life as aspects of the Life Path direction. | 

See Chapter 28, page 485. | 


FIRST The Developmental Period of the Life Path spans youth and young 

PERIOD adulthood. It often appears to display restrictive influences. | 

1 

1 

j 

SECOND The Productive Period of the Life Path spans the important middle | 

PERIOD years, involving what is often the most productive period of the life. This | 

period usually produces influences and opportunities for expansion. | 

---- 

■- 5 


THIRD The Integrative Period of the Life Path spans the later years of life. It 

PERIOD sometimes describes influences supportive of reflection and retirement, 
sometimes influences supportive of bustling activity. 


KARMIC If a Period is a 19/1, 13/4, 14/5, or 16/7 Period, the Period description 
PERIOD will be modified by a strong negative impact. 


»r 



TIME SPAN OF LIFE PATH PERIODS 



Life 

First 

Second 

Third 

| 


Path 

Period 

Period 

Period 




Age 

Age 

Age 

1 


1 

0-26 

27-53 

54 on 

a 

i 

2 or 11/2 

0-25 

26-52 

53 on 

§ 

s 

i 

3 

0-24 

25-51 

52 on 

i 


4 or 22/4 

0-23 

24-59 

60 on 



5 

0-31 

32-58 

59 on 



6 

0-30 

31-57 

58 on 

i 


7 

0-29 

30-56 

57 on 

i 


8 

0-28 

29-55 

56 on 

?. 


9 

0-27 

28-54 

55 on 

t 





698 

" 

REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 14 


CHART "1 A 

T INDIVIDUATION 


14 

| INDEPENDENCE 


LIFE PATH PERIODS 

-L ATTAINMENT 


GENERAL 


FIRST 

PERIOD 


Influences emphasize: 

Being independent. 

Expressing one’s individuality. 

Using your own original ideas. 

Leading and directing others. 

Achievement and recognition for achievement. 


Although the subject, as a child and young adult, is likely to become 
aware of the power that comes with the development of the character¬ 
istics emphasized by the general influences, his environment makes it 
difficult for him to fully develop these traits. The environment may feel 
repressive, breed anxiety and intimidation, discourage originality or give 
little recognition for the individual’s effort or achievement. Or, the en¬ 
vironment may be free and open with so little direction that the subject 
may feel overwhelmed and frightened. The individual isn’t likely to get 
much help from those close to him in achieving independence. 

As the young adult moves into the world, he’s likely to find himself in a 
more balanced environment, but with little background on which to 
build. He must teach himself how to be comfortable with being himself, 
being independent and having the courage to follow his own direction. 


. .r .•> 


SECOND 

PERIOD 


In this Productive Period, the subject is likely to be in an environment 
emphasizing his ability to make positive strides in the direction of the 
general influences. The environment is apt to encourage his forward- 
looking and original endeavors and reward his attainments with recogni¬ 
tion and material gain. 


THIRD 

PERIOD 


19/1 

KARMIC 

PERIOD 


In this Integrative Period, when there may be a desire for time for reflec- / 

tion, there s likely to be substantial movement instead. Attainments of I 

this Period (and, sometimes, previous Periods) may receive recognition | 

and lead to material gain. f 


Problems relating to the following are likely to mar the Period unless the 
subject is willing to work to overcome the blockages: 

Over-emphasis on self: egotism, stubbornness, dominance, aggression, 
selfishness. 

Dependence: timidity, shyness, lack of confidence, insecurity. 




THE LIFE PATH PERIODS 


CHART 


14 


LIFE PATH PERIODS 


RELATION 

COOPERATION 


GENERAL Influences emphasize: 

Being sensitive. 

Being tactful and cooperative. 

Promoting harmony. 

Working well with others rather than alone. Partnerships are likely to 
feel comfortable. 

Patience with details. 

Working with comparatively little recognition. 

Being friendly, affectionate. 

FIRST Although the subject, as a child and young adult, is likely to become 

PERIOD aware of the power that comes with the development of the character¬ 

istics emphasized by the general influences his environment probably 
makes it difficult for him to fully develop his sensitivity, in particular. 
He may find that his sensitivity is not only not nurtured, but that he 
must restrain his feelings or be berated for being too sensitive. He may 
become shy and uncertain for lack of any positive encouragement. He’s 
likely to be more heavily influenced by his mother (or a surrogate 
mother) than by his father. The mother may be separated, divorced or 
widowed through a substantial part of the subject’s childhood. 

As the young adult moves into the world, he’s likely to find himself in a 
more balanced environment, but concern with his own needs may still 
not be encouraged. His sensitivity may begin to emerge, although prob¬ 
ably painfully. He may find that he can mask his uncertainty by staying 
in the background. Insistence on his own needs and expression may 
cause’problems which he feels ill-equipped to battle. 

SECOND In this Productive Period, the subject is likely to be in an environment 

PERIOD emphasizing his ability to make positive strides in the direction of the 

general influences. The environment is apt to encourage marriage and 
parenting. The subject may promote and maintain the harmony in many 
of his relations. He may often find himself in a background position, 
receiving little credit or recognition for his achievements. 

THIRD In this Integrative Period, when there may be a desire for time for reflec- 

PERIOD tion, there is likely to be a supportive environment of warm close friends 

and family. There can be much satisfaction if there is not too much in¬ 
sistence on one’s needs and tact used in dealing with others. 


KARMIC 

PERIOD 


Not applicable. 


700 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 14 \ 

" " j 


CHART 



LIFE PATH PERIODS 


3 EXPRESSION 

JOY OF LIVING 


GENERAL Influences emphasize: 

Light, enjoyable activities—travel, social activities, entertainment. 
Being friendly, affectionate. 


Developing personal expression, particularly verbal expression. 
Opportunities to write, act or sing. 

Developing artistic and creative abilities. 


FIRST 

PERIOD 


As a child and young adult, the subject is likely to become aware of the 
pleasures of friends and artistic pursuits. There’s likely to be emphasis 
placed on creativity, possibly in such a way as to discourage the search 
for the deeper levels of originality, or with the application of pressure 
which may inhibit a shy or timid subject. There may be a tendency to 
waste the energies with subsequent frustration. Capricious or self- 
indulgent activity may, at times, overshadow healthier endeavors. 

As the young adult moves into the world, he’s likely to find himself in a 
more balanced environment. Artistic, verbal and social activities may be 
emphasized as avenues of expression leading to much pleasure. 


SECOND 

PERIOD 


THIRD 

PERIOD 


In this Productive Period, the subject is likely to be in an environment 
emphasizing his ability to make positive strides in the direction of the 
general influences. The environment is apt to encourage the pleasures of 
life and the expression of the delight of living. 

The tendency to waste energies in meaningless or frantic activities or to 
act capriciously or self-indulgently may be promoted by the permissive 
environment, with resultant frustration and loss of time and direction. 


In this Integrative Period, when there may be a desire for time for reflec¬ 
tion, there is likely to be a supportive environment of warm close friends 
and family. Emphasis is probably placed on enjoying life—little heed is 
likely to be given to status, power or recognition. 



3 


X 

3 


KARMIC 

PERIOD 


Not applicable. 



THE LIFE PATH PERIODS 


701 


CHART 


14 


LIFE PATH PERIODS 


LIMITATION 

ORDER 

SERVICE 


GENERAL Influences emphasize: 

Practical, realistic activities and solutions. 

Order, system, organization. 

Need for conscientious, dependable responses. 

Need for hard work, determined effort, constant application. 
Slowly developing opportunities and activities. 


FIRST Although the subject, as a child and young adult, is likely to become 

PERIOD aware of the power that comes with the development of the character¬ 

istics emphasized by the general influences, he is apt to be particularly 
aware of the limiting nature of the environment. He may see the envir¬ 
onment as harsh and restrictive and there may be financial limitations 
which create or heighten the pressure. Little recognition is likely to be 
given to idealism, creativity or flights of fancy. 

As the young adult moves into the world, he’s likely to find himself in a 
more balanced environment, but still with emphasis on work, order¬ 
liness and practicality. The feeling of restriction is likely to persist. 


In this Productive Period, the subject is likely to be in an environment 
emphasizing his ability to make positive strides in the direction of the 
general influences. The environment is apt to encourage hard, conscien¬ 
tious work. There may be financial limitations. It’s important for the 
subject not to lose ambition, to move forward despite the seeming 
restrictions. 


SECOND 

PERIOD 


THIRD In this Integrative Period, when there may be a desire for time for reflec- 

PERIOD tion, there’s likely to be emphasis on ongoing work and service. The feel¬ 
ing of limitation engendered by the restrictive nature of the work 
involved may cause aggravation and resentment. There may be financial 
limitations, too. 


13/4 

KARMIC 

PERIOD 


Any tendency to be rigid, obstinate or dogmatic will increase the 
problems. 

There’s likely to be an excessively heavy work load or a restrictive type of 
work, either presenting substantial impediments so that the subject feels 
uncomfortably boxed in. Often, the nature of the work producing the 
obstruction can be changed if the subject is capable of analyzing the 
situation objectively. 







702 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 14 


CHART 



LIFE PATH PERIODS 



\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 


CONSTRUCTIVE FREEDOM 


GENERAL Influences emphasize: 

Change—frequent, sudden, unexpected. 

Variety—new and different friends, work, interests. 

Many experiences, interesting adventures, travel. 

Freedom—little responsibility. 

Uncertain finances—likely to be plentiful some of the time, scarce at 
other times. May change with little warning. 


FIRST As a child and young adult, the subject is likely to become aware of the 

PERIOD power and problems that come with freedom. Although the environ¬ 

ment may well promote creative activity and allow a person to expand 
his talents, it also is apt to provide a continual feeling of restlessness. 
There’s likely to be little responsibility to shoulder and little concern by 
others with teaching responsibility. There may be a fluctuating money 
supply which adds to the vagaries of the environment. 

As the young adult moves into the world, he’s likely to find himself in a 
more balanced environment, but with a continued emphasis on uncer¬ 
tainty and restlessness. 



SECOND In this Productive Period, the subject is likely to be in an environment 

PERIOD emphasizing his ability to make positive strides in the direction of the 

general influences. If he can be comfortable with the many changes, he 
mayieei free, released from the usual cares and responsibilities, revelling 
in the expansion of his horizons. Raising a family in an environment with 
this constant flux may present its own problems. His business life is likely 
to vary considerably from the norm. 

i 

■ 

i 

THIRD In this Integrative Period, when there may be a desire for time for reflec- 

PERIOD tion, there’s likely to be substantial movement instead. It’s not likely that 

there’ll be much calm, but there may be satisfaction in the changing 
horizons. Fluctuations in the money supply are apt to add to the 

restlessness of the environment. 

■ 

- - : —-- 


i 

14/5 There is likely to be difficulty in choosing among the many opportunities j 

KARMIC available. Frustration and less constructive development than desired j 

PERIOD may occur. i 

Failure to profit from experience instead of repeating mistakes may 
cause dissatisfaction and may block the easy-going pleasures of this 
period. 

Excessive appetite for physical stimulation—food, sex, drink, drugs— 
may cause problems. 







THE LIFE PATH PERIODS 


703 


14 


CHART 
LIFE PATH PERIODS 


6 BALANCE 

RESPONSIBILITY 

LOVE 


GENERAL Influences emphasize: 

Responsibilities—may cause feeling of restriction. 

Home, family, children. 

Giving and receiving love. 

Opportunities to serve and help others: teaching, counseling, healing. 
Promoting harmony. 


FIRST As a child and young adult, the subject is likely to become aware of the 

PERIOD powers and problems that come with responsibility. He may find 
himself in a loving, caring family. The domestic chores and activities are 
likely to be a large part of the early years. He may feel restricted in be¬ 
ing asked to sacrifice sorrie of his own needs for the welfare of others. 
He’s not likely to find much encouragement in expressing his own in¬ 
dividuality. 

As the young adult moves into the world, he’s likely to find himself in a 
more balanced environment, but still with emphasis on responsibility 
and obligation. Domestic matters related to the family in which he was 
brought up or the family which he starts are apt to loom large. He may 
marry early. 


i 

* 




| 

I 

$ 

! 


Is* 

l 

'5 

1 

I 

I 

I 

i 

3 


SECOND In this Productive Period, the subject is likely to be in an environment 

PERIOD emphasizing his ability to make positive strides in the direction of the 

general influences. The environment is apt to stress the pleasures, love 
arid ‘caring of a happy home and family along with the responsibilities 
this entails. This can be a fine time for marriage or the continuation of a 
marriage started in the First Period. 


THIRD In this Integrative Period, when there may be a desire for time for reflec- 

PERIOD tion, there is likely to be a supportive environment of warm close 

friends and family. There’s likely to be responsibilities even within this j 

loving space, but the willingness to accept responsibility and work | 

toward harmony will probably provide rich rewards. | 


KARMIC Not applicable. 
PERIOD 


704 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 14 



CHART-J ^ 

i ANALYSIS ' 


LIFE PATH PERIODS 

1 UNDERSTANDING ! 


GENERAL Influences emphasize: j 

Study: Learning, investigating, gaining skills, often in scientific, j 
technical, religious or metaphysical fields. ) 

Being alone: Usually more comfortable working alone. Marriage is 
likely to take much effort. May need the isolation to develop inner 
resources. 

Little interest in material matters: There is likely to be little concern s 
with practical affairs. There may be difficulties because of lack of 
money or material benefits. I 

\ 

- J 

As a child and young adult, the subject may become aware of the powers \ 
that come with study and the development of the inner person, or, more ^ 

likely the problems that come with not feeling close to anyone. He’s apt \ 

to find himself in an environment where he has few friends, almost \ 
nobody who understands him, meeting with forces which tend to repress \ 
his real nature. He may withdraw, appear cool and detached. He may l 

often feel that he has less opportunities than he would like and that his * 

opportunities take too long to develop. 

As the young adult moves into the world, he’s likely to be alone, de- ■ 

tached, concerned with developing inner peace, deep in study. He 
should be aware that marriage or the closeness of any relation is apt to 
present difficulties. 


FIRST 

PERIOD 


SECOND In this Productive Period, the subject is likely to be in an environment 
PERIOD emphasizing his ability to make positive strides through study and inner ; 

growth. There may be recognition for his mental accomplishments, his : i 
unusual awareness, his analysis and research. He may teach some com¬ 
plex or difficult subject, or he may find satisfaction in writing about the 
fundamentals he studies. He’s likely to have to wait with patience for his i 
opportunities to develop. 

:i 

- _._ tv 

------i 

5 

THIRD In this Introspective Period, when there may be a desire for time for £ 

PERIOD reflection, there’s likely to be a quiet environment with emphasis on j! 

study and development of the inner person. The subject may have to f 

learn to be content with few close friends or companions. He may have jj 

to learn to achieve peace of mind in a relatively lonely environment. f 


16/7 The subject is likely to be perceived as “different”, causing problems 

KARMIC with communication or making others feel that he is difficult to ap- 

PERIOD proach. His tendency to introspection or self-centeredness may add to 

the problem. 

Permanent relations—marriage, business partnerships—may be difficult 
to maintain. 





THE LIFE PATH PERIODS 


70S 


CHART 



LIFE PATH PERIODS 


8 MATERIAL SATISFACTION 


GENERAL Influences emphasize: 

Business and commercial activity. 

Possibility of success, recognition, status. 

Financial and material gain. 

Pragmatic orientation. Emotional bias is not likely to be helpful. 
Organizational and management abilities. 




FIRST As a child and young adult, the subject is likely to become aware of the 

PERIOD power and problems that, come with money and materialistic interests. 

He may find himself in an atmosphere of status and power, and the 
material freedom may confuse his ability to deal with money later on. 
Or, he may find himself in an environment where there is strain after 
money and a lack of material satisfaction, again tending to confuse his 
abilities in this area. 

As the young adult moves into the world, he’s likely to find himself in a 
more balanced environment, but still with a strong emphasis on money 
and materialistic interests. He may now begin to develop a better 
perspective on these matters. 


In rthis Productive Period, the subject is likely to be in an environment 
emphasizing his ability to make positive strides in the direction of the 
general influences. There’s probably a good deal of work to be ac¬ 
complished, little time for play or concerns which stray from a realistic 
perspective. 


THIRD In this Integrative Period, when there may be a desire for time for reflec- 

PERIOD tion, there’s likely to be substantial movement instead. Retirement or a » 

reduced work load may be possible, but there are likely to be continued § 

business concerns or, at the least, concerns of a practical nature requir- jj 

ing work and attention. ' | 


SECOND 

PERIOD 


KARMIC Not applicable. 
PERIOD 






706 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 14 


' \ 
j 

9 SELFLESSNESS ! 

HUM ANITARIANISM \ 


GENERAL Influences emphasize: \ 

Drama and emotions. \ 

Need for tolerance and compassion. !i 

Need for an approach with little concern for personal interests. • 

Need for giving love without expecting it to be returned. 

Humanistic, philanthropic or artistic endeavors. 

Completion of major endeavors which provide the freedom to move 
forward. The completion is likely to be highly charged with emo¬ 
tion. The completion may not be desired by the subject, even l 
though its ultimate ends will probably prove beneficial. i 


14 


CHART 
LIFE PATH PERIODS 


FIRST As a child and young adult, the subject is likely to become aware of the 

PERIOD problems with selflessness and deep feelings. He’s apt to find himself in 

an environment where selflessness is held up as an ideal, but he probably 
receives little input on what to do with his own personal needs. The en¬ 
vironment is likely to be highly charged with emotion, although the 
emotions may not be expressed clearly. With this as background, the 
subject probably has difficulty with his own feelings. He’s likely to feel 
most unsatisfied. 

As the young adult moves into the world, he’s likely to find himself in a 
more balanced environment, but with little background on which to 
build. He must learn to deal with the drama and emotion he’s likely to 
find at this time. 


SECOND In this Productive Period, the subject is likely to be in an environment 

PERIOD emphasizing his ability to make positive strides in the direction of the 

general influences. He may be aware of a lack of personal satisfaction. 
Marriage is likely to require much effort as well as the foregoing of many 
personal needs. 


THIRD In this Integrative Period, when there may be a desire for time for reflec- jj 

PERIOD tion, there’s likely to be some quiet time for this, although there’s prob- 5 

ably a need to spend time helping others. Some of the personal needs l 
probably aren’t fulfilled. I 

a 

15 


KARMIC Not applicable. 
PERIOD 





THE LIFE PATH PERIODS 


707 


CHART 


14 


LIFE PATH PERIODS 


ll 


ILLUMINATION 


GENERAL Influences emphasize: 

Philosophic, religious or metaphysical studies. 

Possibility of inspiration and illumination. 

Lack of concern with practical and material matters. 

Problems with associates, particularly business partners or spouse. 
Nervous tension. 

See the 2 influences also. 


FIRST 

PERIOD 


Always reduces to a 2 Period. 


SECOND In this Productive Period, the subject is likely to be in an environment 

PERIOD emphasizing his ability to make positive strides in the direction of the 

general influences. There’s probably time for dreaming and for attempt¬ 
ing to act on the dream. Don’t expect much in the way of opportunity in 
the business world. 


THIRD In this Integrative Period, when there may be a desire for time for reflec- 

PERIOD tion, there’s likely to be some quiet time for this activity. There’s prob¬ 
ably time for dreaming and for attempting to act on the dream. The 
subject may advise others with more opportunity or potential to produce 
results. 


KARMIC 

PERIOD 


Not applicable. 




708 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 14 


I 

i 

I 


CHART 



LIFE PATH PERIODS 



MASTER BUILDER 


GENERAL Influences emphasize: 

Large scale business endeavors or endeavors with the potential for 
large scale influence. 

Idealistic approach to secure practical ends. 

Nervous tension. 


i 

1 


See the 4 influences also. 


i 

'X 

s3 

--—^ 

FIRST Not applicable. There are no 22 First Periods. jj 

PERIOD § 

ii 




In this Productive Period, the subject is likely to be in an environment 1 

emphasizing his ability to make positive strides in the direction of the : i 

general influences. Leadership opportunities may allow a realization of ;] 

deeply-held beliefs, but much continuous effort would be necessary to i 

develop the ultimate potential. I 

!i 

M 


THIRD In this Integrative Period, when there may be a desire for time for reflec- 

PERIOD tion, there’s likely to be, instead, endeavors requiring continuous effort 
to develop ultimate potential. Retirement or even partial retirement isn’t 
likely. 


SECOND 

PERIOD 


s 

% 


KARMIC Not applicable. 
PERIOD 















710 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 15 









THE PINNACLES 


711 


GENERAL 


FIRST 

PINNACLE 


i 


SECOND 

PINNACLE 

THIRD 

PINNACLE 


The four Pinnacles describe the general influences during each of the 
four Pinnacle phases of the Life. See Chapter 29, page 499. 


The Developmental Pinnacle spans youth and young adulthood. It | 

usually displays limiting influences. 

$ 

'i 


The Second Pinnacle, or Productive Pinnacle A, and the Third Pinnacle, 
or Productive Pinnacle B, span the important middle years, involving 
what is often the most productive period of the life. These Pinnacles 
usually produce influences and opportunities for expansion. 


FOURTH The Integrative Pinnacle spans the later years of life. It sometimes 
PINNACLE describes influences supportive of reflection and retirement, sometimes 
influences supportive of bustling activity. 


KARMIC ... If # Pinnacle is a 19/1, 13/4, 14/5, or 16/7 Pinnacle, the Pinnacle descrip- 
PINNACLE tion will be modified by a strong negative impact. 


TIME SPAN OF PINNACLES 


Life 

Path 

First 

Pinnacle 

Second 

Pinnacle 

Third 

Pinnacle 

Fourth 

Pinnacle 


age: 

age: 

age: 

age: 

1 

0-35 

36-44 

45-53 

54 on 

2 or 11/2 

0-34 

35-43 

44-52 

53 on 

3 

0-33 

34-42 

43-51 

52 on 

4 or 22/4 

0-32 

33-41 

42-50 

51 on 

5 

0-31 

32-40 

41-49 

50 on 

6 

0-30 

31-39 

40-48 

49 on 

7 

0-29 

30-38 

39-47 

48 on 

8 

0-28 

29-37 

38-46 

47 on 

9 

0-27 

28-36 

37-45 

46 on 







712 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 15 


CHART 


15 


THE PINNACLES 


INDIVIDUATION 

INDEPENDENCE 

ATTAINMENT 


GENERAL Influences emphasize: 


Being independent. 

Expressing one’s individuality. 

Using own original ideas. 

Leading and directing others. 

Achievement and recognition for achievement. 


FIRST 

PINNACLE 


SECOND Responsibilities and accomplishments will be based on the ability to 
PINNACLE develop the talents required by the general influences. 

THIRD ’ 

PINNACLE 


FOURTH Any desire to retire or slow down is not likely to be fulfilled. Challenges, 
PINNACLE changes and activities are likely to continue. 

Responsibilities and accomplishments will be based on the ability to 
develop the talents required by the general influences. 


19/1 Problems relating to the following are likely to mar the Pinnacle unless 

KARMIC the subject is willing to work to overcome the blockages: 

PINNACLE Over-emphasis on self: egotism, stubbornness, dominance, aggression, 
selfishness. 

Dependence: Timidity, shyness, lack of confidence, insecurity. 


Most of this period is probably spent learning how to use original ideas, 
how to lead, how to rely on oneself without being egotistical, stubborn, 
self-centered or dominating. 

This is a good period for beginnings, but the potential is likely to be 
limited in this learning period. 




THE PINNACLES 


CHART 


15 


THE PINNACLES 


RELATION 

COOPERATION 


GENERAL Influences emphasize: 

Being sensitive. 

Being tactful and cooperative. 

Promoting harmony. 

Working with others rather than alone. Partnerships are likely to feel 
comfortable. 

Patience with details. 

Working with comparatively little recognition. 

Being friendly, affectionate. 


FIRST Most of this period is probably spent feeling oversensitive—being very 

PINNACLE aware and easily hurt or frightened. There may also be difficulties with 
expression. Efforts must be made to develop a comfortable expression of 
a better balanced sensitivity . 

Mother (or surrogate mother) is likely to be a strong influence. Father 
may be separated, divorced or dead. 


SECOND Responsibilities and accomplishments will be based on the ability to 
PINNACLE develop the talents required by the general influences. 

THIRD 

PINNACLE 


FOURTH A harmonious working environment or retirement is possible. Sensitivity 
PINNACLE and receptivity are likely to be of special importance. 


KARMIC 

PINNACLE 


Not applicable. 





Light, enjoyable activities—travel, social activities, entertainment. 
Being friendly, affectionate. 

Developing personal expression, particularly verbal expression. 
Opportunities to write, act or sing. 

Developing artistic and creative abilities. 


FIRST There may be substantial opportunities to develop artistic or creative po- 

PINNACLE tential, but the subject piay not recognize them or be willing to work as 
hard as may be required for the development of the opportunities. He 
may scatter energies by working on opportunities with little potential. 


SECOND Responsibilities and accomplishments will be based on the ability to 
PINNACLE develop the talents required by the general influences. 

THIRD > 

PINNACLE 

FOURTH A harmonious working environment or retirement is possible. 
PINNACLE There’s the possibility of travel, friends and much delight. 


KARMIC 

PINNACLE 


Not applicable. 



THE PINNACLES 


715 


CHART 


15 


THE PINNACLES 


LIMITATION 

ORDER 

SERVICE 


GENERAL Influences emphasize: 

Practical, realistic activities and solutions. 

Order, system, organization. 

Need for conscientious, dependable responses. 

Need for hard work, determined effort, constant application. 
Slowly developing opportunities and activities. 


FIRST This may be a demanding period with the need to work hard at a young 

PINNACLE age. 

There may be economic limitations and little time for youthful activities. 


SECOND 

PINNACLE 

THIRD 

PINNACLE 


Responsibilities and accomplishments will be based on the ability to 
develop the talents required by the general influences. There may be 
feelings of economic limitation. 


FOURTH Any desire to retire or slow down is not likely to be fulfilled. There’s like- 
PINNACLE ly to be little leisure and feelings of economic limitation. 

Responsibilities and accomplishments will be based on the ability to 
develop the talents required by the general influences. 


13/4 

KARMIC 

PINNACLE 


Any tendency to be rigid, obstinate or dogmatic will increase the 
problems. 

There’s likely to be either an excessively heavy work load or a restrictive 
type of work, either presenting substantial impediments so that the sub¬ 
ject feels uncomfortably boxed in. Often, the nature of the work produc¬ 
ing the obstruction can be changed if the subject is capable of analyzing 
the situation objectively. 




716 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 15 


CHART 15 

THE PINNACLES _ 

GENERAL Influences emphasize: 

Change—frequent, sudden, unexpected. 

Variety—new and different friends, work, interests. Many expe¬ 
riences, interesting adventures, travel. 

Freedom—little responsibility. 

Uncertain finances—likely to be plentiful some of the time, scarce at 
other times. May change with little warning. 


FIRST Variety and change produce exciting period, make it difficult to feel 

PINNACLE sense of completion. ! 

Dissatisfaction in attempts at building a foundation. 


5 CONSTRUCTIVE FREEDOM 


SECOND Accomplishments and contentment will be based on the ability to be 
PINNACLE comfortable with the fluctuating environment. 

THIRD 

PINNACLE 


FOURTH Any desire to retire or slow down is not likely to be fulfilled. Change and 
PINNACLE variety are likely to continue. 

Accomplishments and contentment will be based on the ability to be 
comfortable with the fluctuating environment. 


14/5 There is likely to be difficulty in choosing among the many opportunities 

KARMIC available. Frustration and less constructive development than desired 
PINNACLE may occur. 

Failure to profit from experience instead of repeating mistakes may 
cause dissatisfaction and may block the easy-going pleasures of this 
period. 

Excessive appetite for physical stimulation—food, sex, drink, drugs— 
may cause problems. 




THE PINNACLES 


717 


CHART 


15 


THE PINNACLES 


BALANCE 

RESPONSIBILITY 

LOVE 


GENERAL Influences emphasize: 

Responsibilities—may cause feeling of restriction. 

Home, family, children. 

Giving and receiving love. 

Opportunities to serve and help others: teaching, counseling, healing. 
Promoting harmony. 


FIRST There is likely to be much duty and responsibility related to home and 

PINNACLE family. There may be strong feelings of limitation because of these 

pressures at a young age. 

The opportunity for an early marriage is possible. This is not necessarily 
the most desirable course of action. 


SECOND Responsibilities and accomplishments will be based on the ability to 
PINNACLE develop the talents required by the general influences. Home and family 
may take precedence over business matters. 

THIRD 

PINNACLE 


FOURTH A harmonious working environment or satisfying retirement is possible. 
PINNACLE The opportunity for the pleasures of home, marriage, love are likely to 
be present. 


KARMIC 

PINNACLE 


Not applicable. 






718 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 15 


CHART 


15 


THE PINNACLES 


ANALYSIS 

UNDERSTANDING 


GENERAL Influences emphasize: 

Study: learning, investigating, gaining skills, often in scientific, 
technical, religious or metaphysical fields. 

Being alone: usually more comfortable working alone. Marriage is 
likely to take much effort. May need the isolation to develop inner 


resources. 


Little interest in material matters: there is likely to be little concern 
with practical affairs. There may be difficulties because of lack of 
money or material benefits. 


FIRST The subject may encounter difficulties because of a lack of friends. He 

PINNACLE may have difficulty getting the desired education because of parental 
pressures—or—he may be pressured into studies when he has little 
motivation because of his age. 


SECOND Responsibilities and accomplishments will be based on the ability to 
PINNACLE develop the talents required by the general influences. Accomplishments 
m,ay not produce financial benefits as desired or expected. 

THIRD 

PINNACLE 


FOURTH This may be a quiet, possibly lonely, time for the development of the in- 
PINNACLE ner person. It may be difficult to find comfortable companions. 


The subject is likely to be perceived as “different”, causing problems 
with communication or making others feel that he is difficult to ap¬ 
proach. His tendency to introspection of self-centeredness may add to 
the problem. 

Permanent relations—marriage, business partnerships—may be difficult 
to maintain. 


16/7 

KARMIC 

PINNACLE 





THE PINNACLES 


719 


CHART 


15 


THE PINNACLES 


MATERIAL SATISFACTION 


GENERAL Influences emphasize: 

Business and commercial activity. 

Possibility of success, recognition, status. 

Financial and material gain. 

Pragmatic orientation. Emotional bias is not likely to be helpful. 
Organizational and management abilities. 


FIRST The subject may be involved in business or commercial activity at an 

PINNACLE early age. He may feel limited or restricted. 


SECOND Responsibilities and accomplishments will be based on the ability to 
PINNACLE develop the talents required by the general influences. 

. - . . (' . > 

THIRD 

PINNACLE 


FOURTH Partial, if any, retirement is probably all that may be expected. There is 
PINNACLE likely to be a good deal of attention given to business or commercial 
endeavors. 



KARMIC 

PINNACLE 


Not applicable. 





720 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER IS 


9 SELFLESSNESS 

HUMANITARIANISM 

GENERAL Influences emphasize: 

Drama and emotions. 

Need for tolerance and compassion. 

Need for an approach with little concern for personal interests. 

Need for giving love without expecting it to be returned. 
Humanistic, philanthropic or artistic endeavors. 

Completion of major endeavors which provide the freedom to move 
forward. The completion is likely to be highly charged with emo¬ 
tion. The completion may not be desired by the subject, even 
though its ultimate ends will probably prove beneficial. 


FIRST There may be a difficult completion of a situation involving work or 

PINNACLE love. Selflessness is often difficult for a young person, so this period is not 
likely to be easy. 


SECOND Responsibilities and accomplishments will be based on the ability to 
PINNACLE develop the talents required by the general influences. There is likely to 
be much high drama and strong emotion. 

THIRD 

PINNACLE 


FOURTH There may be philanthropic or artistic endeavors allowing the subject to 
PINNACLE give much to the world. Retirement or partial retirement may be possi¬ 
ble in conjunction with this work. 


CHART 15 

THE PINNACLES 


KARMIC 

PINNACLE 


Not applicable. 






THE PINNACLES 


721 


11 ILLUMINATION 


GENERAL Influences emphasize: 

Philosophic, religious or metaphysical studies. Possibility of inspira¬ 
tion and illumination. 

Lack of concern with practical and material matters. 

Problems with associates, particularly business partners or spouse. 
Nervous tension. 

See the 2 influences also . 


CHART 15 

THE PINNACLES 


FIRST It’s probably difficult for the young person to use the general influences 

PINNACLE productively. 


SECOND Responsibilities and accomplishments will be based on the ability to 
PINNACLE develop the talents required by the general influences. 

... .. • . .f- . > 

THIRD 

PINNACLE 


FOURTH Retirement or partial retirement is possible. 
PINNACLE 


KARMIC Not applicable. 
PINNACLE 



722 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 15 


CHART 


15 


THE PINNACLES 


22 


MASTER BUILDER 


GENERAL Influences emphasize: : 

Large-scale business endeavors or endeavors with the potential for ij 
large-scale influence. { 

Idealistic approach to secure practical ends. 

Nervous tension. 


See the 4 influences also. 


FIRST 

PINNACLE 


It’s probably difficult for the young person to use the general influences 
productively. 


■j 


SECOND Responsibilities and accomplishments will be based on the ability to 
PINNACLE develop the talents required by the general influences. 

THIRD 

PINNACLE 


FOURTH Business endeavors with idealistic ends preclude retirement. 
PINNACLE 


f. 


S 


j? 


KARMIC 

PINNACLE 


Not applicable. 











724 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 16 


CHART 



PERSONAL YEAR/UNIVERSAL YEAR 











REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 16 


CHART 


16 


PERSONAL YEAR/UNIVERSAL YEAI 


INDIVIDUATION 

INDEPENDENCE 

ATTAINMENT 


PERSONAL 

YEAR 


Start of a 9 Year Epicycle—a time of change, progress, new BEGIN¬ 
NINGS. The subject’s actions this year will have a significant effect on 
the course of the next nine years. Inability to begin a venture now may 
delay prospects until the following Epicycle. 

The subject should clarify his goals and start working toward their 
achievement. He should seek out the opportunities and take advan¬ 
tage of them without hesitation. If the odds are encouraging, chances 
should be taken. (The opportunities should be studied carefully, 
though, because impulsiveness isn’t likely to be helpful.) The individ¬ 
ual can plan and begin a new venture—or make changes or expand an 
existing venture—or, at least, broaden his interests and activities. 
Power is high this year—it’s a time to ACT. Hard work may be 
necessary to get a venture moving. 

Independence should be emphasized. If there are areas of dependen¬ 
cy, this is a fine time to work on them. If existing conditions have been 
bothering the subject for some time, this is the time to start to break 
free. This is a time also, to express courage and assertiveness, to act 
confidently and self-reliantly. Individuality should also be stressed. 

This is one of the years of the Epicycle in which an important change 
is likely. The change is probably due to the individual’s own efforts. 


UNIVERSAL New endeavors and the expansion of existing endeavors. 
YEAR Planning for the future. 


A sense of beginning. 




PERSONAL YEAR/UNIVERSAL YEAR 


727 


RELATION 

COOPERATION 


PERSONAL A year to wait while ventures begun last year develop slowly. Time is 
YEAR vital for plans to fully mature. 

The subject should stay in the background and WAIT for develop¬ 
ments. He shouldn’t make much effort to move endeavors ahead. 
Action usually isn’t necessary at this time and is likely to force condi¬ 
tions into less constructive channels. Aggressiveness is often followed 
by problems. The subject must be prepared for delays, detours, stop¬ 
pages and must be patient. 

He should concentrate on working with others in a spirit of COOPER¬ 
ATION, relating to others tactfully and with consideration. Harmony 
should be emphasized. The details must be taken care of when 
necessary. The subject may give time and effort to further another’s 
work. 


CHART 16 

PERSONAL YEAR/UNIVERSAL YEAR 


& 


n 

ii 


3 


A 


Emotions and sensitivity need to be kept in balance. Difficulty with 
self-control is likely to heighten the nervous tension and provoke dis¬ 
harmony. 




UNIVERSAL 

YEAR 


a 


Emphasis on development of balance, peace and harmony. 
Diplomatic missions. 

Reconciliations. 

A sense of cooperation. 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 16 



CHART 1 0 

< EXPRESSION 


PERSONAL YEAR/UNIVERSAL YEAR 

U JOY OF LIVING 


PERSONAL A special lighter year! Though there are opportunities to expand and 
YEAR develop, the keynote of this year is the experiencing of pleasure and 

happiness and the expressing of the JOY OF LIVING. (If the Es¬ 
sence or the Transits have a substantially darker tone, the pleasure 
and happiness are likely to be considerably muffled or completely 
submerged.) 

The subject should approach experiences, if possible, with joy, cheer 
and enthusiasm. He should enjoy friends, lead an active social life, 
delight in enjoying himself with a minimum of the cares of respon¬ 
sibility. He shouldn t, though, indulge only in superficial or capricious 
activities. He should try to be there for others with vibrance and 
vitality. He may enjoy the deep delights of love and romance. 

The subject should concentrate on opportunities for self-improve¬ 
ment, particularly along the lines of his CREATIVE TALENTS. 
He should use intuition, imagination and inspiration. Advancement 
or recognition is possible. He may want to particularly emphasize 
endeavors involving words such as acting, singing or writing. 

It s important to handle emotions constructively. The individual 
should try not to waste energies. He may enjoy the satisfaction and 
accomplishment of bringing projects to a satisfactory conclusion. 
Self-indulgence or extravagance are likely to impede progress and 
downgrade the chance of experiencing pleasures. 


UNIVERSAL Delight in pleasure. 

YEAR Emphasis on social life, entertainment. 

A sense of the joy of living. 



PERSONAL YEARIUNIVERSAL YEAR 


729 


CHART 


16 


4 


LIMITATION 

ORDER 

SERVICE 


Personal year/universal yeah 


PERSONAL A year to stabilize ventures, to establish a secure base for future 
YEAR development. 

The subject must concentrate on hard work, mental and/or physical, 
WORK to put a solid base under his endeavors. He will have to search 
out and strengthen the weak areas, take care of all the details, put 
everything in order, ready for potential growth. He should proceed in 
a practical and rational manner, making the most of his ability to 
organize and manage. 

The subject should be sure to meet his obligations. If work is shirked, 
the resulting leisure isn’t likely to be enjoyable. The work may be 
long and unremitting, but there’s much satisfaction to be obtained 
from its completion. Progress is apt to be slower than expected. The 
subject shouldn’t depend on luck or dreams—they’re not much help 
at this time. 

He should be efficient, economical and rational with financial mat¬ 
ters and establish a solid foundation here, too, for the future. 

The subject can counteract any feelings of limitation or restriction by 
periodically interspersing some play to relieve the pressure of the 
work load. He should check on health matters when necessary. 


UNIVERSAL Economic problems. 

YEAR Scarcity of jobs. 

Financial difficulties. 

A sense of work to be accomplished to alleviate problems. 



730 


CHART 

PERSONAL YEAR/UNIVERSAL YEAR 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 16 


5 CONSTRUCTIVE FREEDOM 


PERSONAL A year to expand horizons, to grow and change, to delight in the 

YEAR variety of experience. This is a time to enjoy new friends, new oppor¬ 

tunities, adventure, excitement, social activities, to revel in FREE¬ 
DOM. 


The subject should concentrate on feeling loose and free. He should 
move away from old routines, but do it constructively. If he’s bogged 
down, this is a good time to seek out new directions. The oppor¬ 
tunities now lie with the new and progressive. Involvement with 
detail work is likely to feel confining. 

The subject must be careful not to scatter his energy in all directions. 
If there’s restlessness or impulsiveness, there’s likely to be interferences 
which cut down the potential of the free-wheeling opportunities. 

This is one of the years of the Epicycle in which an important change 
is likely probably a change of residence, work or family situation. 
The change may not be due to the subject’s initiative, but the ultimate 
effect is dependent on his ability to take advantage of the change and 
use it to help in his forward movement. 


UNIVERSAL International activities. 

YEAR New and unusual ventures. 

Dynamic progress. 

A sense of excitement and adventure. 



PERSONAL YEAR/UNIVERSAL YEAR 


CHART 


16 


BALANCE 

RESPONSIBILITY 

LOVE 


PERSONAL YEAR/UNIVERSAL YEA! 


PERSONAL A year to concentrate on home life, the duties and RESPONSIBIL- 
YEAR ITIES of the FAMILY and close community. The individual should 

guard against being a doormat or a martyr but must understand the 
occasional need for sacrifice. 

This is a time to help serve the spouse, children, parents and close 
friends. When necessary, the subject may have to take care of the 
infirm or elderly. He must make adjustments and work for harmony 
and balance—this is a good time to resolve tensions. The individual 
should talk matters over with family and friends, understand and con¬ 
sider everyone’s needs, try to be as unselfish and giving as possible. 
The subject may enjoy the deep quiet pleasures of romance, love 
and/or marriage. The more love and affection given, the more 
returned. This is a good year to get married or to continue in mar¬ 
riage—as long as emotions are balanced and clearly, openly ex¬ 
pressed. There’s likely to be a good deal of feeling—any attempts to 
hide or disguise feelings are apt to backfire. 

Endeavors outside the home are probably moving slowly. He should 
give them the attention they need without neglecting domestic 
responsibilities. The individual must learn to accept the slow pace as 
well as the many demands on his time (and, often, money). He must 
have faith that movement is occurring even though it may not be visi¬ 
ble to him. 


UNIVERSAL Interest in welfare, education. 
YEAR Emphasis on family life. 

A sense of close belonging. 




732 

\ - -■ 

CHART 

PERSONAL YEA 


PERSONAL A special INTROSPECTIVE year! A vital pause between the intense 

YEAR activities of the 4,5 and 6 Personal Years and the powerful 8 Personal 

Year. A time to gain an understanding of the self by spending much 
time in contemplation. 

The subject should concentrate on spending time alone or in quiet ac¬ 
tivities, as free from outside responsibilities as possible. He should try 
to get away from business pressures. This is a good time to meditate, 
examine inner depths, rely on the intuition. It’s a year to study the 
past and present—plan for the future. The subject should take little 
action but rather wait for developments. Associations and experiences 
may be completed and he may experience some loneliness at times. 
The individual should work to develop inner power and spiritual 
awarenesses. He may develop a broader faith. He may find that new 
interests are awakened along with new understandings. There may be 
a desire to study, research, teach or write about technical, scientific, 
religious or occult subjects, to delve into the fundamentals. This may 
be the time to lay the theoretical groundwork for later expansion into 
the business world. 

Appearances of coolness or detachment may irritate or alienate others 
who don’t understand the subject’s current interests or activities. He 
shouldn’t fight and shouldn’t force issues but, instead, use a minimum 
of quiet explanation. If there are feelings of limitation or confusion, he 
must wait patiently for the development of more clarity. He should 
check on health matters when necessary. 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 16 


16 


R/UNIVERSAL YEAH 


7 


ANALYSIS 

UNDERSTANDING 


!j 


UNIVERSAL Spiritual, religious or occult expansion. I 

YEAR Inward searchings and studies. 

A sense of inner development. j 

£ 

F 



PERSONAL YEAR/UNIVERSAL YEAR 


CHART 


16 


MATERIAL SATISFACTION 


PERSONAL YEAR/UNIVERSAL YEAF 


PERSONAL The ultimate year of ACTION in the Epicycle. The subject’s abilities 

YEAR are likely to be operating more effectively now than at any other time 

in the nine years—if there’s a time for ACCOMPLISHMENT, this is 
it! He should take advantage of the situation. 

Ventures begun in the 1 Personal Year, then expanded, revised, 
analyzed in the intervening years, may well come to fruition now. 
The subject should use all available energy and take action at this 
time for maximum impact. Much df the benefit is likely to accrue in 
the business world, but all areas of the life are susceptible to the ef¬ 
fects of the current dynamic energy. This doesn’t mean the individual 
can do anything, but he can probably do more than at any time in the 
past seven years. 

There are apt to be many opportunities as well as advancement, 
achievement, recognition and improvement in the financial status. 
This year can be the fitting culmination of the work that has gone 
before. (If little work and effort have preceded this year, there may 
still be benefits, but of a considerably smaller magnitude.) 

The subject should approach opportunities in a businesslike manner 
displaying efficiency, practicality, executive ability and good judg¬ 
ment. He should impress others with his resourcefulness and sus¬ 
tained effort. If possible, he should exude authority and self-confi¬ 
dence while avoiding an emotional and sensitivity imbalance. He 
must be realistic—he can’t act on impractical dreams or visions. He 
has,to keep a sense of perspective at all times. 

The work load may deplete the energy. If a strain is present, the level 
of activity should be lowered. The subject should check on health 
matters when necessary. 


UNIVERSAL Plentiful jobs and money. 

YEAR Progress in material matters—new products, increased productivity; 

A sense of material well-being. 



734 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 16 


CHART 

PERSONAL YEAR/UNIVERSAL YEAR 


9 SELFLESSNESS 
HUMANITARIANISM 


PERSONAL The end of the Epicycle, the closing of one phase of experience. COM- 

YEAR PLETION is the watchword. 


The subject should finish and leave behind as many as possible of the 
areas that have acted as obstacles. He should let go of these 
negatives—it’s easier now than at any other time in the Epicycle. Now 
is the time to give up relationships that no longer have meaning. Some 
experiences or people may go out of the life and leave a deep feeling of 
loss. If experiences or relations show signs of ending, the subject 
shouldn’t fight the ending—rather, he should work to reach a con¬ 
structive conclusion. 

This is the time to complete the good and meaningful experiences 
which seem to be ready to give way to the new. The subject should 
carry forward only those experiences and relations with promise for 
positive development in the approaching Epicycle. 

He should give some thought to areas to develop when the I Personal 
Year commences. He shouldn’t start anything new at this time, if 
possible, especially something major like marriage or a new business, 
although beginnings can be made during the closing months of this 
year when the vibrations of the coming year can be felt. Activities 
started in a 9 Personal Year often end prematurely. 

The individual must be prepared to experience much drama and emo¬ 
tion, He should express love and compassion, although little may be 
returned. There may be artistic or creative endeavors. 

The subject should check on health matters when necessary. 

This is one of the years of the Epicycle in which an important change 
is likely. The change may be initiated by the individual’s efforts or by 
others’ efforts. 


UNIVERSAL 

YEAR 


The old tends to fade away. t 

Religious or spiritual movements emphasizing love and understand- j 

ing. jj 

A sense of completion. jj 



PERSONAL YEAR/UNIVERSAL YEAR 


735 


CHART 


16 


11 


ILLUMINATION 


PERSONAL YEAR/UNIVERSAL YEAI 


PERSONAL A year in which heightened sensitivity is emphasized. By tuning in to 
YEAR experiences in a special way, expanded awarenesses may be received. 

The subject may want to concentrate on experiences involving 
spiritual or occult matters. Understanding of these experiences may 
contribute to INNER DEVELOPMENT and a deeper use of the 
intuition. 

The individual should prepare for considerable nervous tension, 
although, even with preparation, there are apt to be difficulties which 
may detract from the ability to absorb the new awarenesses. 

The emphases stressed by the 2 Personal Year are also in effect. 


UNIVERSAL Metaphysical or religious experiences. 
YEAR Idealistic developments. 

A sense of illumination. 





736 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 16 


i___ 

CHART 16 I 

PERSONAL YEAR/UNIVERSAL YEAR 


22 MASTER BUILDER 


PERSONAL A year with possibilities for progress on significant projects or pro- 
YEAR gress on ventures with significant influence. The subject should ap¬ 

proach these endeavors only if he is feeling idealistic and extremely 
capable. Status, recognition and financial gain may result if there are 
pure humanitarian motives with little concern for personal g ain . 

Heightened nervous tension usually accompanies the SIGNIFICANT 
OPPORTUNITIES. The tension is likely to complicate the relation 
with others and impede progress. 

Maturity and high-level power are necessary for advancement. If 
there are any doubts, revert to the emphases stressed by the 4 Personal 
Year. Even when the opportunities of the 22 Personal Year are ex¬ 
perienced, the emphases of the 4 Personal Year remain in effect. 


... - . .r .> 


UNIVERSAL Large scale ventures to benefit mankind. 
YEAR Idealistic endeavors. 

A sense of prodigious opportunities. 


g 

s 



























THE ESSENCE 


739 




LONG PERIOD A long period, five or more years of an Essence, describes a signifi- 
OF cant emphasis. 


AN ESSENCE 


ESSENCE AND 
PERSONAL 
YEAR WITH 
SAME NUMBER 


Description of the strong negative potential with repeated 


numbers and some approaches to alleviate the difficulties. 





740 REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 17 ? 

1 

CHART JPJT 

THE ESSENCE 

-| INDIVIDUATION 

1 INDEPENDENCE 

-L ATTAINMENT ; 


1 ESSENCE Even 

and ! 

De 

Ex 

In< 

M< 

Tu 

Some 

force 

ts and opportunities emphasize BEGINNINGS, CHANGE 
PROGRESS, such as: ; 

jvelopment of new ideas. • 

panding existing interests. / 

creasing status and/or recognition. 

3eting new friends or business associates, 
irning avocation into vocation. 

(times, one strong change triggers a sequence of events which 
s substantial alterations in almost every facet of the life. / 

... ■- ■ . £ 

■ • ' l 

1 

ADDITIONAL 

EMPHASES 

10/1 Similar to the 1 Essence but with a bit more intensity. 

19/1 Usually a strong impact on the life. 

Opportunities to achieve independence by changing existing limit¬ 
ing situations. The achievement of independence takes much ef¬ 
fort, because the subject is likely to feel beset with obstacles and 
problems. The overcoming of the difficulties is likely to involve 
important lessons leading to development and growth. 

...... <■ . > i 

28/1 Opportunities for progress are likely to stress business ventures 
which emphasize cooperation with others. Too much emphasis on 
money, status or power is apt to limit advancement. 5 

\ 

| 

LONG PERIOD This long period may bring a series of dramatic ongoing changes in 

OF the life, or one substantial change with many years between the 

1 ESSENCE onset and the conclusion of the direct effects. 

1 

5 

jj 


1 ESSENCE A great deal of stimulation and ample opportunities may make it \ 

WITH difficult to clearly perceive the best direction. There may be false 

1 PERSONAL starts and dead ends with resultant frustration. The subject should 

YEAR realize that he can’t take advantage of all the opportunities. He 

must pick and choose carefully, always with an eye on the future 
benefits rather than the current utility. 

■ 





THE ESSENCE 


741 


CHART 


17 


THE ESSENCE 


2 ESSENCE 


RELATION 

COOPERATION 


Events and opportunities emphasize COOPERATION and PA¬ 
TIENCE, such as: 

Developing relations and associations. 

Working as part of a group to satisfy mutual needs. 

Helping others with their needs. 

Carefully completing details. 

Developments are likely to take longer than first expected but us¬ 
ing additional effort isn’t apt to help. It may even be detrimental 
or cause potential opportunities to disappear. Delays and tem¬ 
porary stoppages may often be frustrating, but they may actually 
improve the ultimate timing needed for reaching goals. 

High emotions and high sensitivity are likely. When faced with an 
emotional situation, the subject should deal with it directly rather 
than side-stepping it. 

Lowered energy and vitality may be experienced. 


ADDITIONAL 

EMPHASES 

11/2 Seethe 11 page. 


20/2 Similar to the 2 Essence but with a bit more intensity. 
29/2 See the 11 page. 


LONG PERIOD This long period may produce nervous tension due to prolonged 
OF high emotions and/or deep frustration due to delays. 

2 ESSENCE 


2 ESSENCE 
WITH 

2 PERSONAL 
YEAR 


Emotional conflicts may heighten the tension, upset the sensitiv¬ 
ity, affect the health. Self-control and a disciplined approach can 
help maintain a harmonious balance. 

A sense of perspective in relation to the delays and difficulties will 
help relieve frustration. The subject must learn that plans move 
forward despite the occasional detours. 




742 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 17 


CHART 



THE ESSENCE 


3 EXPRESSION 
JOY OF LIVING 


3 ESSENCE Some events and opportunities emphasize the JOY OF LIVING, 

such as: 


Meeting new friends, renewing old friendships. 

Engaging in love affairs. 

Receiving pleasure through children. 

Expanding social activities. 

Traveling. 

Some events and opportunities emphasize EXPRESSION, such as: 

Producing creative work, particularly with words—sin gin g, 
acting, writing. 

Advancing talents with classes or study. 

Starting or expanding business interest involving creative en¬ 
deavors. 

Turning creative avocation into vocation. 

Honestly expressed emotions can aid developments, while dis¬ 
guised or repressed feelings are likely to interfere with growth. 

Optimism and enthusiasm are apt to open doors, while pessimism 
and a critical attitude may interfere with opportunities. 

The subject should maintain self-discipline to avoid wasting 
energies or acting capriciously or self-indulgently. 


ADDITIONAL r > 

EMPHASES 

12/3 Advancement of creative abilities may be related to opportunities 
provided by new or old friends. 

21/3 Heightened emotions and sensitivity may cause problems and 
interfere with opportunities. 

30/3 Similar to the 3 Essence but with a bit more intensity. 

LONG PERIOD This long period may allow broad creative development in a 
OF beautiful and happy time. (When the Transits have a substantially 

3 ESSENCE darker tone, the beauty and happiness is likely to be considerably 

muffled or completely submerged.) 


3 ESSENCE Unless the subject can maintain strong self-discipline, there’s likely 

WITH to be a considerable waste of energy, a restlessness leading to frivo- 

3 PERSONAL lous and superficial activity, a resultant feeling of lack of pleasure 

YEAR or accomplishment and accompanying frustration. 







THE ESSENCE 


743 


CHART 


17 


THE ESSENCE 


4 ESSENCE 


LIMITATION 

ORDER 

SERVICE 


Events and opportunities emphasize WORK, such as: 

Putting a solid base under a business venture. 

Expanding a business. 

Ordering or managing affairs. 

Dealing with financial matters with a sense of economy. 

Development of opportunities requires a practical and realistic 
view along with hard work, effort, discipline and determination. 

Opportunities are likely to feel limiting or restrictive. Progress is 
usually much slower than expected. The subject should cultivate 
an awareness of forward movement rather than restriction. 

The subject should check on health matters when necessary. 


ADDITIONAL 

EMPHASES 

13/4 Usually a strong impact on the life. 

Much continual hard work is likely to feel severely restrictive. The 
subject must accept the responsibility for the work and accomplish 
it or the restrictive feelings become more intense. Feelings of 
limitation often grow from the subject’s point of view rather than 
from the work itself. 

..... .> 

22/4 See 22 page. 

31/4 Much hard work using creative talents can lead to achievement 
and advancement in business ventures. 

LONG PERIOD This long period may bring unremitting hard work with resultant 
OF feelings of limitation. 

4 ESSENCE 


4 ESSENCE 
WITH 

4 PERSONAL 
YEAR 


Feelings of limitation or restriction are likely to be strong. Often, 
the feelings are related to the subject’s point of view as much as or 
more than to the actual work in hand, The subject should reeval¬ 
uate his position if there are feelings of being in a rut or plodding 
along blindly. He should clarify the obstacles and take steps to 
remove them. 



744 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 17 


1 

CHART 

THE ESSENCE 

5 CONSTRUCTIVE FREEDOM j 


5 ESSENCE Even 

Ex 

De 

En 

En 

Mt 

Tr 

The s 
Then 
He n 
devel 

ts and opportunities emphasize FREEDOM, such as: j 

periencing the sudden, unexpected, unusual. ; 

saling with constant change and activity. 5 

gaging in ventures stressing progress. 

joying new ideas and experiences. j 

jeting new friends. ; 

aveling. 

ubject shouldn’t waste energy and go off in every direction. ; 

s’s likely to be far more opportunity than he can possibly use. jj 

lust pick and choose for maximum positive impact on his 
opment. \ 


ADDITIONAL 

EMPHASES 

?! 

14/5 Usually a strong impact on the life. 

Significant breakthroughs involving freedom are possible. 

Many opportunities make choices difficult. The subject should not j 

work only on his own needs or he is likely to alienate others who 
can help with forward progress. He must focus his energy for max¬ 
imum benefit. 

23/5 Opportunities are likely to derive from use of the creative talents 

r * and sensitivity to others. | 

32/5 Opportunities are likely to derive from use of the creative talents 

and sensitivity to others. i 

- i 

1 

- w 

LONG PERIOD A free-wheeling period. Unless some self-discipline is exercised, 1 

OF most of the energy is likely to be scattered with little accomplish- f 

5 ESSENCE ment. Ultimately, there may be feelings of deep frustration. I 

ij 


j? 

5 ESSENCE Freedom may be misused—by mistaking constant change for for- 1 

WITH ward movement; by getting lost in physical pleasures—food, 

5 PERSONAL drink, sex, drugs; by emphasizing self-centered interests with little 

YEAR concern for others. Unless the subject can develop a balanced ap¬ 

proach, the opportunities for freedom and change as well as the 
possibilities for fun and constructive development are likely to 
prove elusive. " 

1 







THE ESSENCE 


745 


CHART 


17 


THE ESSENCE 


6 ESSENCE 


BALANCE 

RESPONSIBILITY 

LOVE 


Events and opportunities emphasize RESPONSIBILITY and 
DOMESTIC AFFAIRS, such as: 

Handling responsibility involved with home and family. 
Experiencing love; getting married or continuing marriage. 
This is the best Essence for marriage. A new or continuing 
marriage may be beautiful if both partners are unselfish. 
Problems in love and marriage are likey if dominance or self- 
centeredness is present. 

Relating to children. 

Serving close community. 


ADDITIONAL 

EMPHASES 


15/6 If single, the subject is likely to experience enjoyable social time 
with a tendency to bypass some responsibilities. 

If married, there are likely to be some unsettled areas, occasion¬ 
ally significant problems, if care is not exercised in using freedom. 

24/6 Responsibilities related to family, children or parents may feel 
limiting or restrictive. 

33/6 Social activities, trips, creative endeavors center around the home 
and family. 


LONG PERIOD This long period may bring ongoing domestic responsibilities. 
OF Lack of acceptance of these responsibilities is likely to bring feel- 

6 ESSENCE ings of restriction. Acceptance of these obligations is apt to bring 

much love in return. 


6 ESSENCE Feelings of restriction are likely to be due to heavy family responsi- 

WITH bilities, or, at the least, the subject’s view of those responsibilities. 

6 PERSONAL Much emotion is likely to be in the air. Clear expression and a will- 

YEAR ingness to share feelings may lead to a better balance. Failure to 

communicate the feelings may lead to confusion and difficulties. 




746 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 17 


CHART 



THE ESSENCE 



ANALYSIS 

UNDERSTANDING 


7 ESSENCE Events and opportunities emphasize STUDY and INTROSPEC¬ 
TION, such as: 


Writing about scientific, religious or metaphysical subjects. 
Involvement in research or educational pursuits. 

Looking for an understanding of fundamentals. 

Pursuing new interests, often in a field completely different than 
any in which there’s been previous experience. 

Withdrawing for reflection and meditation. 

Searching for inner peace and faith. 

Learning to be comfortable with quiet and repose. 


ADDITIONAL 

EMPHASES I 6/7 Usually a strong impact on the life. 

A difficult transition period with substantial changes possible in the 
life pattern. At the end of the period, the subject is often in a better 
position than at the beginning, but the period provides little in the 
way of signposts. It is difficult or impossible to clearly comprehend 
the direction to take. The apparent direction must often be ac¬ 
cepted on instinct. Confusion, negativity and frustration may be 
felt until a final understanding is reached. The turmoil of the 
period often negates any attempts at study, reflection, or medita¬ 
tion. Much of the energy at this time is devoted to clarifying and 
r > searching for the different stages leading to a final breakthrough. 
With its significant difficulties, this Essence is a fine time to learn 
the meaning of faith. 

25/7 Research or study may be conducted as a member of a group. Sen¬ 
sitivity may be high. Ultimately, a sense of freedom or release may 
be experienced. 

34/7 Use of the creative talents will help in research or study. A good 
deal of ongoing work is involved here, often leading to feelings of 
limitation. 


LONG PERIOD This long period may point to an extended study time or spiritual 
OF retreat. The introspective nature of the work may mean a 

7 ESSENCE withdrawal from family and social activities as well as many 

everyday pursuits. 

Withdrawal, accompanied by moodiness, depression, strong feel¬ 
ings of limitation and emotional discomfort. The subject probably 
needs more relation to others, more feeling that others care. He 
should seek help rather than waiting for it to come. 


7 ESSENCE 
WITH 

7 PERSONAL 
YEAR 








THE ESSENCE 


747 


CHART 



THE ESSENCE 


8 MATERIAL SATISFACTION 


8 ESSENCE Events and opportunities emphasize BUSINESS, such as: 

Advancing in the business world and community. 

Improving professional standing and reputation. 

Receiving financial gain. 

Building or expanding current venture, often with dynamic 
possibilities. 

Traveling, possibly on business matters. 


Organizational, managerial and executive skills will allow max¬ 
imum development of opportunities. Practical and rational 
judgments can win others’ confidence and open doors. 


Continuous effort and hard work will probably be required to 
develop the possibilities. 


ADDITIONAL 

EMPHASES 

17/8 Unique or unusual ideas are likely to lead to advancement, finan¬ 
cial gain and a more independent position. 

26/8 Heavy responsibilities must be handled with sensitivity. Too much 
emotion or poorly expressed emotion is likely to prove detrimental. 

35/8 Free-wheeling use of creative talents is likely to lead to advance- 
merit, financial gain. The subject should temper the expansive 
ideas with a sense of practicality for best results. 

LONG PERIOD This long period may bring a major business development likely to 
OF require a sustained effort. There may be significant rewards for 

8 ESSENCE the future. A one-track approach for any extended period is 

usually disappointing in its ultimate unfolding. The subject should 
be sure there are some varied interests in his life or run the risk of 
later regrets and resentment. 


8 ESSENCE There may be a tendency to strain after money, power or status. 

WITH The opportunities are there, but undue strain or little concern 

8 PERSONAL with others’ needs may alienate associates and hurt the potential. 

YEAR Too much strain or too much feeling left unexpressed can affect 

the health and business prospects. 





748 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 17 


CHART 



THE ESSENCE 


9 SELFLESSNESS 

HUMANITARIANISM 


9 ESSENCE Events and opportunities emphasizing DRAMA, EMOTIONS 

and/or COMPLETION, such as: 

Experiencing events of significance filled with much feeling. 
Tolerance, compassion and sensitivity can be of great help. 

The ending (usually unexpected) of a meaningful experience or 
close personal relation. 

There may be much emotional confusion relating to the end¬ 
ing. (Endings usually indicate a change of interests or the 
subject moving apart from a close relation—only occasionally 
is death involved.) The ending usually allows the subject 
more freedom, but this probably isn’t apparent at the time it 
happens. 

Involvement with romance and love affairs. 

There may be high emotions and confusion. The lesson may 
have to be learned that ultimate love doesn’t restrict, but 
rather supports freedom. This lesson may be a difficult one. 

Involvement with ventures related to humanitarian, philan¬ 
thropic or creative endeavors. 


ADDITIONAL 

EMPHASES 

18/9 Business opportunities leading to more independence may relate 
^ to humanitarian, philanthropic or creative endeavors. 

27/9 Unusual viewpoint often expressing extreme sensitivities may aid 
development of humanitarian, philanthropic or creative 
endeavors. 

36/9 Much responsibility is likely to be involved in humanitarian, 
philanthropic or creative endeavors. 


LONG PERIOD 
OF 

9 ESSENCE 


This long period may bring protracted emotional strain or pro¬ 
tracted endings. 


9 ESSENCE 
WITH 

9 PERSONAL 
YEAR 


Completions are likely to be difficult. High emotions may cause 
strain. Clear thought and action are probably impeded. 






THE ESSENCE 


749 


CHART 


17 


THE ESSENCE 


11 


ILLUMINATION 


11 ESSENCE Often, a strong impact on the life. 


Events and opportunities emphasize SPIRITUAL MATTERS and 
ILLUMINATION. 


There may be some new awareness of great importance which 
supports the development of faith and inner peace. Sometimes, 
the new understandings have a profound effect on the entire 
life, although it’s likely to take time for the changes to develop. 
Looking back, it may be possible to pinpoint an 11 Essence as a 
time of a major shift in the life. 


Heightened sensitivity may cause problems and misunderstand¬ 
ings. It may also attract new friends who appreciate the sensitivity. 

Nervous tension may alienate some, make difficulties with others. 
Nervousness may affect the subject’s ability to express feelings 
with clarity. 


See the 2 Essence also. 


ADDITIONAL 

EMPHASES 

29/11 Extreme sensitivity and nervous tension produce problems with 
r relations. 


LONG PERIOD 
OF 

11 ESSENCE 


Extreme nervous tension and extreme heightened sensitivity makes 
for problems with relationships. New and Unusual awarenesses 
may cause inner conflict. Communication of these awarenesses is 
likely to present its own difficulties. 


11 ESSENCE 
WITH 

11 PERSONAL 
YEAR 


This long period may allow time for study and development of 
new awareness for maximum impact. 

Heightened sensitivity and nervous tension for a prolonged period 
are likely to place a substantial strain on close relationships. 




750 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 


17 


CHART 



THE ESSENCE 



MATERIAL MASTER 


22 ESSENCE Often, a strong impact on the life. 

Events and opportunities emphasize SIGNIFICANT VEN¬ 
TURES. 


Opportunities for significant projects or ventures with the poten¬ 
tial for significant influence are likely to come to the subject’s at¬ 
tention. Unless the subject possesses a significant power potential, 
he may be accepting a difficult burden. 

Opportunities are likely to emphasize idealistic ends. Unless the 
subject is extremely altruistic, he may be taking on more than he 
can handle. There may be benefits here, including recognition, 
status and financial gain, but these benefits can only be achieved 
by operating with pure humanistic or philanthropic motives. 

Considerable nervous tension is likely. 

It is usually easier to revert to the 4 Essence. Although the poten¬ 
tial for accomplishment is considerably less with the 4, the tension 
and pressure are significantly reduced. 


ADDITIONAL 

EMPHASES Not applicable. 



1 

LONG PERIOD This long period may bring the possibility of prodigious achieve- ij 

OF ment. Enormous pressure and high nervous tension may be con- jj 

22 ESSENCE stantly present. | 

£ 

| 

| 


$ 

22 ESSENCE Extreme nervous tension is likely to affect the possibility of prog- | 

WITH ress. Large-scale business problems and problems with family and | 

22 PERSONAL business associates probably make life complex and uncomfor- f 

YEAR table. It is usually more productive to revert to 4-4 energy rather l 

than struggle with the 22-22. J 

1 



\ 
















752 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 18 












THE TRANSITS 


753 


TRANSITS Medium term cycles describing probable events or the probable trend of 
events. See Chapter 32, page 537. 




754 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 18 



Often, change of residence. 
Sometimes, change of work situation. 
Important decision. 

Significant implications for the future. 
Much activity, possibly travel. 

New people. 

Business or personal relations. 

New opportunities. 


A-A 

AJ 

A-S 

JS 


Difficult to choose right opportunities because of excessive activity. 
Frustration may result from inability to focus energies for positive results. 


J = 10/1 Important change. 

Often, change of residence. 

Sometimes, change of work situation. 

Shift in business responsibilities. 

Potential for increased status and responsibility. 

Financial gain. 

New people. 

Business or personal relations. 

J'J "' " " r Difficult to focus required energy for business affairs because of excessive activity. 

The development of the available business opportunities, therefore, may fall short 
of the potential. 


Q 

O = 19/1 Sudden or unexpected change. 

In family, personal relations or work situations. 

May trigger additional changes. 

Implications for the future. 

Adjustments due to change may need time well beyond this year. 
Strong emotions. 

Unexpected or unusual love affairs. 

Creative urges or unusual ideas. 

S*S Emotional upset may be brought on by change. 




THE TRANSITS 


CHART 


18 


THE TRANSITS 


RELATION 

COOPERATION 


Opportunities'develop through cooperative efforts. 
Partnerships or group activities. 

Problems likely if there’s lack of cooperation. 

Beautiful love affairs. 

Possibility of marriage. 

Emotions may run high and sensitivities may be disturbed. 

Tension may be reduced by patience and joint efforts. 
Lowered vitality. Attend to matters of health. 

Tense, nervous period. Possibility of emotional upsets. 


= 11/2 


See 11 page. 


= 20/2 Change. 

Often change of residence. 

Opportunities develop through cooperative efforts. 

Partnerships or group activities. 

Complications in partnerships or group activities may cause problems. 
Love affairs. 

May lead to marriage or affect existing marriage. 

Emotions may run high and sensitivities may be disturbed. 

Delays, detours may result. 

Maintain strong self-discipline. 

Reduce stress by spending some time alone. 

Lowered vitality and high tension. Attend to matters of health. 

Tense,, nervous period. Possibility of substantial emotional upsets. 




756 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 18 



Meeting new friends, renewing old friendships. 
Enjoyable social activities. 


Creative enterprise. 

Advancement by developing talents. 

Expansive potential. 

In business or in living conditions. 

May lead to problems with spouse, sometimes aggravated by love affairs. 
Extravagant or self-indulgent actions. 

Create difficulties and interfere with opportunities. 


C-C 

CL 

CU 

LU 


Tendency to scatter energies is likely to cause frustration, interfere with advance¬ 
ment possibilities. 


I-i = 12/3 Friends. 

Meeting new friends, renewing old friendships. 

Enjoyable social activities. 

Love and romance. 

Creative enterprise. 

Advancement by developing talents. 

Home, marriage, children. 

Pleasure and happiness. 

Added understandings come with honestly expressed feelings. 

■'Travel. 

Extravagant or self-indulgent actions. 

Create difficulties and interfere with opportunities. 

L*L Tendency to indolence or selfishness is likely to interfere with advancement 

possibilities. 


U = 21/3 



Creative enterprise. 

Advancement by developing talents. 

Lack of confidence may interfere with opportunities. 

Unusual love affairs. 

Emotional confusion. 

May interfere with opportunities. 

Heightened emotions and sensitivity. 

Poorly expressed or repressed emotions create difficulties. 

Problems with spouse and children. 

Delay major decisions, especially financial decisions, until clear thinking is possible. 


U-U 


Heightened emotional confusion. Work to understand and express deep feelings 
clearly and honestly to alleviate difficulties. 



THE TRANSITS 


757 


CHART 


18 


THE TRANSITS 


LIMITATION 

ORDER 

SERVICE 


Much work. 

Lack of application brings problems. 
Practical time, particularly in business matters. 
Responsibilities. 

Need for organization. 

Build stable base. 

In business and personal life. 

Travel. 

Lowered energy. Attend to matters of health. 


Feelings of limitation and restriction, usually due to the unremitting nature of the 
work. 


M = 13/4 Much work. 

Lack of application brings problems. 

Practical time, particularly in business matters. 
Responsibilities. 

Need for organization. 

Opposition possible from business associate. 

Finances. 

Financial advancement possible with careful approach. 
Feelings of limitation and restriction. 
r k Usually due to unremitting nature of the work. 

Love affairs or marriage. 

Travel. 

Lowered energy. Attend to matters of health. 

M‘M Pressure of unremitting work may affect health. 


V = 22/4 


See 22 page. 





758 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 18 


CHART 


18 


THE TRANSITS 


CONSTRUCTIVE FREEDOM 


Sudden, unexpected, unusual and/or exciting events. 

Constant change and activity. 

Change possible. 

In residence. 

In work situation. 

New friends. 

Desire for freedom may bring separation from old friends. 

Love affairs. 

May be exciting but often short-lived. 

Sudden marriage or separation. 

Restlessness or impulsiveness may motivate actions. 

Fluctuating finances. 

Travel. 

Haste, impulsiveness, scattering of energy may impede potential benefits. 


■N = 14/5 Sudden, unexpected, unusual and/or exciting events. 

Constant change and activity. 

Possible change in work situation. 

New friends. 

Desire for freedom may bring separation from old friends. 

Love affairs. 

Sudden, unusual, often short-lived. 

Marriage. 

Close if unsettled areas have been previously resolved. 
r "Lack of balanced emotions cause problems. 

Fluctuating finances. 

Travel. 

N’N Haste, impulsiveness, scattering of energy may impede potential benefits. 


23/5 Sudden, unexpected, unusual and/or exciting events. 

Sudden happenings may be emphasized. 

Little feeling of stability. 

Constant change and activity. 

Love affairs. 

Sudden, exciting, often short-lived. 

Marriage. 

Restlessness emphasizes instability. 

Lack of balanced emotions cause problems. 

Travel. 

Attend to health matters. 

Haste, impulsiveness, scattering of energy may impede potential benefits. 



WW 





THE TRANSITS 


759 



Children bring pleasures and problems. 

Responsibilities. 

Domestic responsibilities may feel restrictive. 

Accept only duties which feel comfortable. 

If feelings of being a doormat exist, lighten the load or the resentment will in¬ 
crease the difficulties. 


Love and romance. 


High level; good period to marry or continue marriage. 
Selfishness brings problems. 


FF 

FO 

FX 

OX 


Responsibilities feel uncomfortable and difficult to remove or reduce. Feelings of 
restriction, resentment and frustration. 


O = 15/6 Home and family. 

May be very strong interest. 

Much caring and affection. 

Children bring pleasures and problems. 

Responsibilities. 

Domestic responsibilities may be substantial but satisfying. 

Accept only level of responsibility that is comfortable or expect problems. 

Love and romance. 

High level if can give of self freely. 

.r iGood period to marry or continue marriage. 

Protecting self by withholding feelings likely to cause problems. 

Travel. 

0-0 Responsibilities feel extremely restrictive. Subject sometimes feels trapped and 

resentful. 


= 24/6 Home and family. 

Responsibilities. 

Primarily domestic responsibilities. 

Sacrifices may be necessary. 

Love and romance. 

High level; good period to marry or continue marriage. 

Express feelings openly and clearly to avoid difficulties. 

Strong emotions. 

Differences between parents and children may cause strain. 

Travel. 

X X Likely to be emotional confusion relating to differences between parents and chil¬ 

dren. A great deal of this stress and strain is apt to make the home life difficult and 
significantly affect other areas of the life. 




760 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 18 


CHART 


18 


THE TRANSITS 


ANALYSIS 

UNDERSTANDING 


G - 7 


Study, research, furthering the education. 

Expansion in business world. 

Advancement in position. 

Financial gain. 

Unusual friends or lovers. 

May cause emotional difficulties. 

Tendency to secrecy, introspection. 

May be moody, critical. 

Attend to matters of health. 

Withdrawal or emotional confusion are likely to block possibilities for progress. 


= 16/7 Study, research, furthering the education. 

May investigate new interests requiring courage of the convictions. 
Advancement in business world. 

Slower than expected; may require much patience. 

Advancement likely to be related to previous study, research or education. 
Problems with partners or spouse. 

Love affairs may cause emotional difficulties. 

Lack of clear communication brings confusion. 

Tendency to secrecy, introspection. 

May be moody, critical, occasionally depressed. 

Attend to matters of health. 

P’P 'Withdrawal or emotional confusion are likely to block possibilities for progress. 


= 25/7 Study, research, meditation, furthering the education. 

New interests. 

May be based on insights gained from meditation. 

Old interests may be abandoned to pursue new. 
Increase in spiritual awareness. 

Concern with fundamentals and deep understandings. 
Possible psychic experiences. 

Problems with partners, spouse. 

Precipitated by new interests, desire to be alone. 

Lack of clear communication brings confusion. 
Tendency to secrecy, introspection. 

May withdraw. 

May be difficult for others to understand. 

May be shy, not want to reveal new thoughts. 

Attend to matters of health. 


Withdrawal, emotional confusion, misunderstanding or loneliness are likely to block 
possibilities for progress. 






THE TRANSITS 


761 


CHART 


18 


THE TRANSITS 


MATERIAL SATISFACTION 


Advancement in business. 

Significant change in authority possible. 

Practical, efficient approach likely to be rewarded. 

A time to build a solid base for future expansion. 

Possible financial gain. 

Strain after money blocks possibilities. 

Selfishness interferes with opportunities. 

Business affairs may add strain to personal life. 

Repressed feelings in business dealings may obstruct personal affairs. 

Travel, possibly on business matters. 

Possibility of overwork and strain after money. Personal affairs may be neglected in 
favor of business concerns, bringing problems. 


Q = 17/8 Advancement in business. 

Significant change in authority possible. 

Unique or unusual approach may expand or redirect business venture. Care 
should be taken that “different” approach doesn’t alienate potential backers. 
Possible financial gain. 

Strain after money blocks possibilities. 

Selfishness interferes with opportunities. 

Emotional difficulties. 

Temperamental displays or unclear or repressed feelings may cause personal or 
business conflicts. 

Unusual friends. 

May be helpful in business ventures. 

. • r .» 

Q‘Q Unusual approach or emotional confusion is likely to interfere strongly with business 

ventures. Good judgment and a balanced temperament may take substantial effort. 


^ = 26/8 Advancement in business. 

Significant change in authority possible. 

Increased reputation and prestige possible. 

Possible financial gain. 

Needs good judgment and responsible effort. 

Love affairs. 

Marriage. 

Possible unusual marriage or unusual spouse. 

Problems unless emotional discipline maintained. 

Sensitivity and high emotions. 

Particularly with spouse, close friend or associate. 

Z Z Over-sensitivity or poorly expressed or repressed emotions may cause difficulties with 

spouse, close friend or associate. 







762 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 18 


CHART 18 


THE TRANSITS 


9 SELFLESSNESS 

HUMANITARIANISM 


1=9 Events of significance. 

Often a dramatic time of the life. 

A tolerant and sensitive attitude will be helpful. 

Possibility of delays. 

Strong emotions likely. 

Deep feelings, high sensitivity, loving and giving will help in ventures. Emotional 
confusion, repressed feelings, oversensitivity are likely to impede development. 
A fine balance is necessary but takes effort to maintain. 

Nervous tension, worry or moodiness may be difficult to avoid. 

Business opportunities. 

Often related to humanitarian or philanthropic endeavors. 

Attend to matters of health, possibly related to emotional upsets. 


1*1 Conflicts and problems stemming from strong emotions and high sensitivity. Con- 

TR siderable delays and uncomfortable endings. 


JR. = 18/9 Events of significance. 

Often a dramatic time of the life. 

A tolerant and sensitive attitude will be helpful. 

Possibility of delays. 

Strong emotions likely. 

Opportunity to use self-discipline so emotions can be expressed for positive results. 
Love and marriage. 

High level possible if emotions are balanced. 

Business opportunities. 

' * Often related to humanitarian or philanthropic endeavors. 

Understanding of others’ needs opens doors. 

R'R Considerable delays and uncomfortable endings. 








11/2 Important spiritual awareness ot psychic experience possible. j 

Opportunities develop through cooperative efforts. 

Partnerships or group activities. 

Problems likely if there’s lack of cooperation. 

Unusual experiences. 

Unique friends. * 

Unusual love affairs. 

Emotions may run high and sensitivities may be disturbed. 

Interruptions, misunderstandings. 

• r ‘ Nervous tension is likely to affect relationships. p 

Attend to matters of health. | 

Tense, nervous period. Possibility of substantial emotional upsets. s 

I 
















764 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 18 



= 22/4 Significant projects or ventures with the potential for significant influence. 

Practical point of view and idealistic approach needed. 

Imagination and intuition required. 

Ventures may relate to long-standing dreams. 

Much work. 

Lack of application brings problems. 

Travel. 


Nervous tension. 

Extravagance is likely to defeat objectives. 


V V Heightened nervous tension likely to interfere with activities, particularly with rela¬ 

tionships. May require scaling down activities to more manageable, less pressure- 
filled levels. 


■ 


VD 

VM 


Feelings of limitation and restriction, usually due to the unremitting nature of the 
work. 
















766 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 19 








PERSONAL MONTH/PERSONAL DAY 


767 



PERSONAL A short term cycle describing the approach to events for a given 

MONTH month likely to produce growth and development. See Chapter 

34, page 581. 


PERSONAL A short term cycle describing the approach to events for a given 

DAY day likely to produce growth and development. See Chapter 35, 

r page 595. 


CONTRIBUTING Character traits likely to produce positive results and other 
AND IMPEDING character traits likely to contribute to a disappointing time. 

TRAITS 






768 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 19 


CHART 


19 


PERSONAL MONTH/PERSONAL DA\ 


INDIVIDUATION 

INDEPENDENCE 

ATTAINMENT 


PERSONAL The subject should take the steps he’s been contemplating. 

MONTH Now is the time to act. 

He shouldn’t be afraid to take a chance if the odds are encouraging. 

A time of change. 

The subject should make the change or move closer to making the 
change in the future. 

He should break up old conditions he doesn’t like or attack a weak 
point, 

A time to begin something new. 

The subject should begin a new activity, friendship, relation, voca¬ 
tion. 

At the least, a different phase of an existing experience should be 
begun. 

The subject should be himself. 

He should emphasize his individuality and uniqueness. 

He should express his originality and creativity. 

He shouldn’t overdo it and irritate or alienate others. 


19/1 

PERSONAL 

MONTH 


Obstacles to taking advantage of opportunities may result from: 
Egotism, self-centeredness, domination, over-aggressiveness, 

or 

Laziness, fear, timidity, inability to act decisively. 


PERSONAL The start of the daily Epicycle. Potentially, one of the more dynamic 

DAY days of the month. 

’A day to make a beginning or a change, to put a new plan into action. 
The activities on a 1 Personal Day seem to receive an extra impetus, but 
the activities must reflect a sense of commitment, a desire to make things 
happen and a capability of getting the job under way. Without these 
attributes, the activities will tend to fizzle and produce minimum im¬ 
pact. 

19/1 Self-centeredness, over-aggression, fear or indecisiveness are likely to 

PERSONAL impede progress on a 19/1 Personal Day. If any of these characteristics 

DAY are present, use the day to try to change or overcome these tendencies. 

Don’t use the day for significant beginnings—you’re liable to get off on 
the wrong foot. 


CONTRIBUTING A 1 Personal Month or 1 Personal Day is likely to produce positive results 
AND IMPEDING when the subject is: 

TRAITS Assertive, ambitious, authoritative, vigorous, progressive. 

A 1 Personal Month or 1 Personal Day is likely to be disappointing when 
the subject is: 

Overly aggressive, egotistic, impatient, selfish, fearful, submissive or 
stubborn. 





■ 


CHART 


19 


RELATION 

COOPERATION 


ERSONAL MONTH/PERSONAL DAI 


PERSONAL A time to be quiet, understanding. 

MONTH The subject should be sensitive to the subtleties. 

He should keep his emotions in balance. 

He should be considerate. 

A time to wait for developments. 

The subject should exercise patience. 

He shouldn’t make much effort to push endeavors ahead, 

A time to cooperate with others on own projects or others’ ventures. 
The subject should work quietly for harmony. 

He should take care of the details. 


PERSONAL A day with little direct feeling of power, although developments may 

DAY progress of their own accord. The subject should try to be aware of the 

.r ... su btle nuances—he may learn something of significance for the future. 
This could be a pleasant, but probably quiet, social time. It’s a good day 
to cooperate with others in their work or to enjoy one’s own routine. The 
subject should help the routine move forward smoothly, without chang¬ 
ing or even attempting to change direction. 


CONTRIBUTING A 2 Personal Month or 2 Personal Day is likely to produce positive results 
AND IMPEDING when the subject is: 

TRAITS Relaxed, responsive, tactful, gentle, supportive. 

A 2 Personal Month or 2 Personal Day is likely to be disappointing when 
the subject is: 

Meddling, oversensitive, scheming, apathetic, tactless or incon¬ 
siderate. 



7 70 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 19 


CHART 


19 


ERSONAL MONTH/PERSONAL DAI 


EXPRESSION 
JOY OF LIVING 


PERSONAL 

MONTH 


A time to enjoy oneself. 

The subject should move responsibilities past this month if possible. 
He should express his happiness and delight so it’s contagious. 

A good time to vacation and travel. 

A time to express oneself. 

Artistic creation—art, music, writing, etc. 

A time to use imagination, intuition, inspiration. 

A time to spend with friends. 

The subject should enjoy a lively social life. 

He should entertain or be entertained. 


PERSONAL A day, simply, to have a good time, usually with others. The subject 

DAY should schedule visits with friends, social affairs or entertainment of all 

■r »sorts. He should make his delight contagious if possible—express his 
pleasure in the day with all the cheer and enthusiasm he feels, express 
the beauty in the world with his creative talents. This is a good day to 
practice a musical instrument, to paint a landscape, to write a poem. In 
many ways, the simplest of the days in the daily Epicycle—in another 
sense, one of the most profound. 


CONTRIBUTING A 3 Personal Month or 3 Personal Day is likely to produce positive results 
AND IMPEDING when the subject is: 

TRAITS Enthusiastic, friendly, imaginative, optimistic, joyful. 

A 3 Personal Month or 3 Personal Day is likely to be disappointing when 
the subject is: 

Superficial, extravagant, ostentatious, critical, inhospitable or worry¬ 
ing. 




PERSONAL MONTH/PERSONAL DAY 


771 


CHART 


19 


LIMITATION 

ORDER 

SERVICE 


ERSONAL MONTH/PERSONAL DAI 


PERSONAL A time to work hard. 

MONTH The subject should build a solid foundation. 

He should strengthen weak areas. 

He should take care of the details. 

A time to put everything in order for possibility of future expansion. 

The subject should proceed practically, rationally. 

He should organize, systematize. 

A time to try to clarify and understand the feelings of limitation. 

The subject should clarify the limitations of his own making and plan 
to eliminate them. 

He should clarify the limitations due to his point of view and work on 
shifting that point of view. 

He should clarify the limitations which are comparatively unchange¬ 
able and study how to deal with them in a more satisfactory man¬ 
ner. 

A time to take care of the health. 

13/4 Feelings of limitation or restriction are likely to be strongly emphasized 

PERSONAL by: 

MONTH Rigidity, obstinacy, dogmatism, 

or 

Laziness, inability to apply self to the work at hand, tendency to 
disorganization. 


PERSONAL A day to complete routine tasks, to keep the nose to the grindstone. This 

DAY is. a good time to put a sustained effort forward, particularly when 

r * there’s involvement with a not so agreeable chore. The subject should 
make sure to stay in line, not look for anything new. If he finds a new 
opportunity, it may be more difficult to deal with than on some more 
propitious days. The subject isn’t likely to look forward to a 4 Personal 
Day, but he’ll find it’s vital to make the rest of the daily Epicycle go. He 
may even end up with the satisfaction of getting those jobs out of the 
way that have been around too long. 

13/4 Feelings of limitation or restriction, resistance, laziness or disorganiza- 

PERSONAL tion are likely to impede progress on a 13/4 Personal Day. If any of these 

DAY characteristics are present, the day should be used to try to change or 

overcome these tendencies. The day shouldn’t be used for anything but 
straightforward routine tasks—any other work is likely to present 
problems rather than opportunities. 


CONTRIBUTING 
AND IMPEDING 
TRAITS 


A 4 Personal Month or 4 Personal Day is likely to produce positive results 
when the subject is: 

Serious, constructive, methodical, practical, conscientious. 

A 4 Personal Month or 4 Personal Day is likely to be disappointing when 
the subject is: 

■Resistant, stubborn, contrary, unfocused, lazy or disorganized. 






772 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 19 


CHART 


19 


ERSONAL MONTH/PERSONAL DA\ 


CONSTRUCTIVE FREEDOM 


PERSONAL 

MONTH 


14/5 

PERSONAL 

MONTH 


A time to expand horizons. 

The subject should enjoy new people, places, opportunities, ac¬ 
tivities. 

He may enjoy adventure and excitement. 

He may enjoy social activities. 

A time to exploit changes. 

The subject should initiate changes or, at the least, take advantage of 
them. 

He should drop the old, look for the new. 

He should take a chance if the odds are encouraging. 

A time to feel loose and free. 

The subject should have fun, make a splash. 

He should enjoy the different, unusual, unexpected. 

He should take a vacation or travel. 

He should try to minimize responsibilities (but if there are responsi¬ 
bilities, they should be attended to.) 

Obstacles to taking advantage of opportunities may result from: 

Erratic nature. 

Repeating mistakes instead of profiting from experience. 

Fear of freedom. Fear of taking risks. 

Excessive appetite for physical stimulation—food, drink, drugs or sex. 


PERSONAL 

DAY 


14/5 

PERSONAL 

DAY 


Potentially, one of the more dynamic days of the month. 

A day for the subject to try something new or to make an important 
.change. He’s likely to feel freer, more buoyant, willing to take a risk. 
And the vibrations are with him! If ever there’s a day that will add posi¬ 
tive energy to even the wildest of ideas, the 5 Personal Day is it! If there’s 
something that the subject has been wanting to do, something that’s a 
little risky or scary, he should save it for a 5 Personal Day and move for¬ 
ward on it then with all the enthusiasm he can muster. 

The subject can have a good time, too. If he exploits the sense of adven¬ 
ture and excitement that’s in the air, he can end up greatly exhilarated. 

Restlessness, fear of taking risks, excessive appetite for physical stimula¬ 
tion—any or all are likely to impede progress on a 14/5 Personal Day. If 
any of these characteristics are present, the day should be used to try to 
change or overcome these tendencies. The subject shouldn’t try 
something new unless it feels like the right thing to do. Otherwise, it’s 
not likely to work out in his favor. 


CONTRIBUTING A 5 Personal Month or 5 Personal Day is likely to produce positive results 
AND IMPEDING when the subject is: 

TRAITS Adventurous, flexible, imaginative, resourceful. 

A 5 Personal Month or 5 Personal Day is likely to be disappointing when 
the subject is: 

Thoughtless, irresponsible, nervous, fearful or uncertain. 





PERSONAL MONTHIPERSONAL DAY 


773 


CHART 


19 


PERSONAL MONTH/PERSONAL DATA 


6 


BALANCE 

RESPONSIBILITY 

LOVE 


PERSONAL 

MONTH 


A time to concentrate on the duties and responsibilities of domestic life. 
The subject should take care of needs of spouse, children, parents, 
possibly close friends. 

He should put other’s needs before his own. 

He should help provide a harmonious, beautiful environment in the 
home. 


A time to enjoy the pleasure of romance, love and/or marriage. 
The more affection and love given, the more returned. 

A time to enjoy children and the pleasures of children’s activities. 

A time to express oneself. 

Artistic creation—art, music, writing, etc. 

A time to use imagination, intuition, inspiration. 


PERSONAL A day to enjoy home and family. There may be work to accomplish 

DAY around the house, there may be activities to attend with spouse and 

children* there may be simply the pleasures of domestic life. There may 
r *' also be quarrels to be mediated, hurt feelings to be soothed, special ser¬ 
vice or assistance to be given. 

The subject should give out much in the way of friendship, affection, 
love—as much or more will probably be returned. 


fc' ; 


CONTRIBUTING A 6 Personal Month or 6 Personal Day is likely to produce positive results 
OR IMPEDING when the subject is: 

TRAITS Friendly, loving, giving, understanding, sympathetic. 

A 6 Personal Month or 6 Personal Day is likely to be disappointing when 
the subject is: 

Interfering, over-emotional, unforgiving, worrying, intolerant, unin¬ 
volved or selfish. 




774 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 19 


CHART 


19 


ERSONAL MONTH/PERSONAL DAI 


ANALYSIS 

UNDERSTANDING 


PERSONAL 

MONTH 


16/7 

PERSONAL 

MONTH 


The subject should spend time alone. 

He should meditate, reflect, analyze. 

He should review the past and present, plan for the future. 

He should learn to be content alone. 

He should try, as much as possible, to be relieved from business 
pressures or family responsibilities. 

A time to develop inner power, spiritual awareness. 

The subject may want to look into religious, metaphysical or occult 
ventures. 

A time to explore fundamentals. 

Studying, researching, writing or teaching. 

A time to take care of health. 

Others may be confused, disconcerted or alienated causing interference 
with quiet activities because of: 

Inflexibility, self-containment, “different” wavelength, 
or 

Timid, shy, retiring manner. 


A day to spend at least some time alone getting in touch with deep inner 
feelings, inner power, special awarenesses possibly still in the process of 
r ‘formation. A good time to review the last few days or weeks and plan for 
the next few days or weeks. The subject should make time, if possible, 
for at least a little quiet meditation and observe how much this con¬ 
tributes to his life. 

He should leave beginnings and changes for another day. He shouldn’t 
expect any dramatic developments on this day, either. 

A “different” wavelength, self-centeredness, an argumentative attitude 
or a withdrawn manner are likely to make the subject difficult to ap¬ 
proach. Others may be disconcerted or confused, causing possible prob¬ 
lems in business or family matters. Explaining oneself clearly may 
alleviate difficulties but clear communication, unclouded by emotion, 
may be difficult at this time. 

CONTRIBUTING A 7 Personal Month or 7 Personal Day is likely to produce positive results 
OR IMPEDING when the subject is: 

TRAITS Contemplative, peaceful, poised. 

A 7 Personal Month or 7 Personal Day is likely to be disappointing when 
the subject is: 

Critical, inflexible, withdrawn, over-analytical. 


16/7 

PERSONAL 

DAY 


PERSONAL 

DAY 



PERSONAL MONTH/PERSONAL DAY 


775 


CHART 


19 


MATERIAL SATISFACTION 


PERSONAL MONTH/PERSONAL DAI 


PERSONAL A time to act dynamically. 

MONTH The subject is likely to have more ability to make things happen, 

particularly in regard to business or material matters, than in any 
other Personal Month. 

He should act decisively for maximum impact. 

A time to take advantage of opportunities. 

Possibility of advancement, recognition. 

Possibility of financial improvement. 

Possibility of business expansion. 

The subject should approach matters in a businesslike manner. 

He should act practically and realistically. 

He should express himself with authority and self-confidence. 


PERSONAL A day when the subject possesses a great deal of ability to make things 

DAY happen—potentially, one of the more dynamic days of the month. A 

.rdecisive use of power today is likely to register a maximum impact, par¬ 
ticularly in business or financial matters. This is a good time to make 
things happen the way the subject wants—an especially fine time to 
discuss or sign a contract or agreement. An action now may prove signi¬ 
ficant in regard to accomplishment, advancement and/or financial im¬ 
provement. The subject should explore ventures with an understanding 
of others’ needs and desires. 


CONTRIBUTING 
AND IMPEDING 
TRAITS 


An 8 Personal Month or 8 Personal Day is likely to produce positive 
results when the subject is: 

Confident, dynamic, organized, realistic, discriminating. 

An 8 Personal Month or 8 Personal Day is likely to be disappointing 
when the subject is: 

Bullying, impatient, over-ambitious, unreasonable, careless, imprac¬ 
tical or lacking in confidence. 



REFERENCE CHAR T NUMBER 19 


776 

CHART 

PERSONAL MONTH/PERSONAL DAll 



9 SELFLESSNESS 
HUMANITARIANISM 


PERSONAL 

MONTH 


A time to complete experiences, activities, relationships. 

The subject should end ventures as constructively as possible. 
He should expect drama and strong emotions. 

The subject should be prepared to help others. 

He should work at philanthropic or humanistic endeavors. 

He should give of himself with little thought of reward. 

He should be generous, kind, compassionate. 

A time to express oneself. 

Artistic creation—art, music, writing, etc. 

A time to use imagination, intuition, inspiration. 



3 


PERSONAL The end of the daily Epicycle. 

A day for completions. It’s usually easier to complete a matter on a 9 Per- 
’sonal Day than on any other day. Some ventures are never particularly 
easy to end, but even these are probably more satisfactorily finished on a 
9 Personal Day. Endings, of course, tend to be connected to much drama 
and emotion. Today, with or without the endings, there’s likely to be 
heightened feelings displayed. The subject should try to be sensitive to 
everyone, to be compassionate and understanding no matter what the 
situation. He shouldn’t continue an experience which he wants ended 
just because the emotions are higher than expected; he should act with 
an awareness of others’ needs and desires. 


CONTRIBUTING 
OR IMPEDING 
TRAITS 


£ 

Jt 


A 9 Personal Month or 9 Personal Day is likely to produce positive results 
when the subject is: 

Charitable, broadminded, compassionate, forgiving, sensitive, 
tolerant. 


A 9 Personal Month or 9 Personal Day is likely to be disappointing when 
the subject is: 

Intolerant, over-emotional, self-centered, insensitive, unfeeling or in¬ 
flexible. 






I 


PERSONAL MONTH/PERSONAL DAY 


CHART 


19 


11 


ILLUMINATION 


ERSONAL MONTH/PERSONAL DA\ 


PERSONAL 

MONTH 


PERSONAL 

DAY 


A time for inner growth and heightened sensitivity. 

Psychic or spiritual experiences are possible. 

New awarenesses. 

Inspiration. 

Illumination. 

Nervous tension is likely. 

See 2 Personal Month also. 


A day to heed inner voices and to grow in understanding and sensitivity. 
Unless there’s an 11 core element, there’s usually little awareness of the 
possibilities and the 11 Personal Day is generally reduced to a 2 Personal 
Day. Even with an 11 core element, advantage can only occasionally be 
taken of these particular energies. 

Nervous tension is likely . 

See 2 Personal Day also. 


CONTRIBUTING 
AND IMPEDING 
TRAITS 


An 11 Personal Month or 11 Personal Day is likely to produce positive 
results when the subject is: 

Idealistic, intuitive, sensitive. 

An 11 Personal Month or 11 Personal Day is likely to be disappointing 
when the subject is: 

.Fanatical, unfocused, apathetic. 




778 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 19 


CHART 


19 


PERSONAL MONTH/PERSONAL DAI 


22 


MASTER BUILDER 


PERSONAL 

MONTH 


A time to start or advance on significant projects or ventures with signi- 
ficant influence. 

Recognition and financial gain are possible if the subject has pure 
humanitarian motives and little concern with personal gain. 

Nervous tension is likely. 

See 4 Personal Month also. 


PERSONAL 

DAY 


A day with vast power potential. Unless there’s a 22 core element, there’s 
usually little awareness of the possibilities and the 22 Personal Day is 
r generally reduced to a 4 Personal Day. Even with a 22 core element, ad¬ 
vantage can only occasionally be taken of this particular energy. 

Nervous tension is likely. 

See 4 Personal Day also. 


CONTRIBUTING 
AND IMPEDING 
TRAITS 


A 22 Personal Month or 22 Personal Day is likely to produce positive 
results when the subject is: 

Dynamic, humanitarian, idealistic, inspirational, visionary. 

A 22 Personal Month or 22 Personal Day is likely to be disappointing 
when the subject is: 

Lacking in confidence, concerned with personal gain, indecisive. 






CHART 


20 


THE EPICYCLE 













THE EPICYCLE 


781 


NINE YEAR This chart describes the complete nine year Epicycle, month by 
EPICYCLE, month. See Chapter 31, page 524, and Chapter 34, page 584. 

MONTH In the f irst two months of each year, the waning effect of the 

BY preceding Personal Year is noted. In the last three months of each 

MONTH year? the developing effect of the approaching Personal Year is noted. 




782 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 20 



CHART A 

1 INDIVIDUATION 



1 INDEPENDENCE 


THE EPICYCLE 

-L ATTAINMENT 


1 A time to plan and begin. 3 

PERSONAL A time to make changes, expand. 

YEAR The subject should take action. ^ 

He should be prepared for an important change. 3 


i 


SEPTEMBER l PERSONAL MONTH ; 

New plans or activities may be placed on course or expanded 
dramatically. Advantage may be taken of progressive oppor- ; 

tunities. ,= 

; 5 

i 

JANUARY 2 PERSONAL MONTH 

A time to wait for developments on plans made at end of last 
year. 

End of 9 Personal Year: Time should be allowed for satisfactory 
endings without forcing situations. 

OCTOBER 2 PERSONAL MONTH -i 

Quietly work toward harmony after three month forward surge. 

Start of 2 Personal Year: Developments should be watched with ^ 

great patience while waiting. S 


FEBRUARY 3 PERSONAL MONTH 

Creative and verbal talents may be used to initiate changes. 
Friends may open doors. 

End of 9 Personal Year: An imaginative approach may be used to 
end an activity ready for completion. 

NOVEMBER 3 PERSONAL MONTH ij 

Inspiration, enthusiasm and joie de vivre may be used to involve 

others in new ventures. ;; 

Start of 2 Personal Year; Friends and social life may be enjoyed, " 

but emotions must be kept in balance. ’ 1 

U 


MARCH 4 PERSONAL MONTH 

Changes may be initiated with hard work. Organization and 
detail work may be necessary to get new ventures under way. 

DECEMBER 4 PERSONAL MONTH ; 

Foundation for future developments may begin. Hard work now 

will pay off later. 

Start of 2 Personal Year: Things should be allowed to fall into 

place without force or persuasion. ! 


APRIL 5 PERSONAL MONTH 

Exciting opportunities may^.be^exploited for beginnings, progress 
and expansion. Travel may* present unusual or unexpected 
possibilities. 

■ji 


MAY 6 PERSONAL MONTH 

Changes may be instituted related to home, family or lovers. 
Serving others may open new avenues. Emotional balance is im¬ 
portant. 

$ 

•2 

i: 

in 

i: 

i3 


JUNE 7 PERSONAL MONTH 

Goals, progress should be clarified. Change and forward 
development may be planned. Time may be spent in quiet con¬ 
templation of the unfolding Epicycle. 

I? 

1 . 

1 


JULY 8 PERSONAL MONTH 

Decisive move forward, particularly in relation to material or 
financial matters possible. Business ventures may be-started or 
expanded. 

1 % 

I 

| 


AUGUST 9 PERSONAL MONTH 

Plans may be completed for forward movement in this Epicycle. 
Roadblocks to progress, independence may be eliminated. 


1 





THE EPICYCLE 


783 


20 


CHART ( 

t 

THE EPICYCLE 


2 


RELATION 

ASSOCIATION 


2 A time to wait, cooperate. 

PERSONAL A time to stay in the background. 

YEAR The subject should be receptive. 

(Receptive 11 Personal Year is sometimes substituted for the 2 Personal 
Year.) 



AUGUST 1 PERSONAL MONTH 

Areas requiring tact and diplomacy advanced quietly. Ventures 
progress with little direct effort; sensitivity and emotional 
balance may assist. 


SEPTEMBER 11/2 PERSONAL MONTH 

2 Personal Month: Progress may be behind-the-scenes. Issues 
should not be forced. 

11 Personal Month: New awarenesses may increase sensitivity. 
Nervous tension may interfere with opportunities. 


JANUARY 3 PERSONAL MONTH 

Friends and social life may be enjoyed while awaiting 
developments. Artistic talent may be used for avocation. 

End of 1 Personal Year: Friends may advance opportunities 
if not pressured. 


OCTOBER 3 PERSONAL MONTH 

Creative talents and heightened sensitivity may be used to ex¬ 
pand quietly and cautiously. 

Start of 3 Personal Year: Verbal ability and imagination 
may be of considerable significance. 


FEBRUARY 4 PERSONAL MONTH 

Others may be helped with their work in a sensitive manner. 
End of 1 Personal Year: Hard work progresses but in an unob¬ 
trusive way, on ventures started last year. 


NOVEMBER 13/4 PERSONAL MONTH 

Feeling of limitation is likely to be strong. Work takes much 
time but results may be less than desired. 

Start of 3 Personal Year: Feelings may be lightened by spending 
time socializing and entertaining. 


MARCH 5 PERSONAL MONTH 

New people, travel and'Unusual may be enjoyed. Opportunities 
should be accepted to advance as long as they flow readily and 
without pressure. Long-shot possibilities should be ignored. 


APRIL 6 PERSONAL MONTH 

Devotion to home and family—the pleasures of friendship, love 
and affection may be enjoyed. Family members may be helped 
in their work with sensitivity. 


MAY 7 PERSONAL MONTH 

Development of ventures started last year may be examined; 
desirable path for remainder of this year may be clarified; com¬ 
mitment to patient waiting should be renewed. 


JUNE 8 PERSONAL MONTH 

Power may be used to help others with their projects with 
spirited cooperation. Aggressive forward moves shouldn’t be en¬ 
couraged. 


JULY 9 PERSONAL MONTH 

Completion of waiting period for some phase of experience ex¬ 
pressing progress. Conclusion of a cooperative effort likely. 


DECEMBER 5 PERSONAL MONTH 

Expansive opportunities may be exploited with a bit more vigor 
than in previous months though still not aggressively. 

Start of 3 Personal Year: Fun and adventure can be en¬ 
joyed—activity likely to point to next year. 









784 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 20 


CHART 


20 


THE EPICYCLE 


EXPRESSION 
JOY OF LIVING 


PERSONAL 

YEAR 


A time to express the joy of living, 

A time to concentrate on self-improvement. 
The subject should take action. 



JANUARY 4 PERSONAL MONTH 

Foundations may be firmed up with hard work, imagination 
and creative input. 

End of 2 Personal Year: Friends should be approached diplo¬ 
matically to help with the work. 


JULY 1 PERSONAL MONTH 

Enthusiastic advance, exploiting creativity, imagination and 
verbal skills. Opportunities created by friends or social situations 
may be developed. 


AUGUST 11.-2 PERSONAL MONTH 

2 Personal Month: Developments should be awaited on last 
month s actions. Friends endeavors may be helped with subject’s 
creative input. 

11 Personal Month: Others may be inspired by transmitting feel¬ 
ings of joyous awareness. Progress can be blocked by over- 
sensitivity. 

SEPTEMBER 3 PERSONAL MONTH 

Expanding creative ability and artistic or verbal talents may be 
used to advance. Friends and social life, travel and entertain¬ 
ment may be enjoyed. 


OCTOBER 4 PERSONAL MONTH 

A time to organize and take care of the details of opportunities 
advanced by creative impulses. 

Start of 4 Personal Year: Excessive work likely to feel limiting. 


FEBRUARY 5 PERSONAL MONTH 

Friends, adventure and travel may-provide opportunities for ex¬ 
pansion. Freer feelings are possible than all of last year. 

End of 2 Personal Year: Some caution should be exercised in 
moving forward. 

MARCH 6 PERSONAL MONTH 

The joy of living may be expressed with family and close friends. 
Creativity and inspiration may be used to ensure harmony in the 
domestic life. 


APRIL 7 PERSONAL MONTH 

Creative talents may be developed by spending time working 
alone, exploring possibilities of artistic and verbal skills. Use of 
talents during rest of the year should be contemplated. 


MAY 8 PERSONAL MONTH 

Forward dynamic movement using creative approach may be 
used, particularly to further business interests. Friends and social 
skills may unlock doors. 


JUNE 9 PERSONAL MONTH 

Creative preparation may be completed for new or expanded 
venture. If friendship is ending, tolerance and compassion 
should be expressed. 


NOVEMBER 14/5 PERSONAL MONTH 

Opportunities for creative advancement may be impeded by 
restlessness or impulsiveness. 

Start of 4 Personal Year: Work to be accomplished now seems 
decidedly out of place. 

DECEMBER 6 PERSONAL MONTH 

Merriment, enthusiasm and joy center around home, family. 
Creative endeavors may help to serve others.. 

Start of 4 Personal Year: Domestic duties may feel restrictive at 
the end of this expansive year. 








THE EPICYCLE 


785 


CHART 


20 


THE EPICYCLE 


4 


LIMITATION 

ORDER 

SERVICE 


PERSONAL 

YEAR 


A time to work hard, take care of the details. 

A time to put everything in order. 

The subject should take action only in order to consolidate. 

(Active 22 Personal Year is sometimes substituted for the 4 Personal Year. 


JUNE 1 PERSONAL MONTH 

Much work may be required to take advantage of somewhat 
muted opportunities. Increased independence may depend on 
working hard to break up old conditions. 


JULY 11/2 PERSONAL MONTH 

2 Personal Month: Hard work in cooperation with others likely. 
Progress may be difficult to see. 

11 Personal Month; Inner growth may be related to thoughts 
about work and responsibility. Nervous tension may add to 
restrictive feelings. 


AUGUST 3 PERSONAL MONTH 

Break from work if possible—a time to socialize, play and travel. 
First pause in pressure since beginning of year—another difficult 
month to follow. Lots of work yet to come. 


JANUARY 5 PERSONAL MONTH 

Much activity and excifement. "Opportunities may be mis¬ 
leading since much more work is required than is at first ap¬ 
parent. 

End of 3 Personal Year: Joy of living may be expressed but duties 
must not be neglected. __ 


FEBRUARY 6 PERSONAL MONTH 

Much work and organization in family and home matters. 
Others’ needs may take preference over needs of the subject. 

End of 3 Personal Year: Pleasures of spouse and children may be 
enjoyed. 


MARCH 7 PERSONAL MONTH 

Time may be spent alone to analyze duties and responsibilities. 
Work should be planned to build desirable foundation. 


SEPTEMBER 13/4 PERSONAL MONTH 

Harshly restrictive work load likely to bring feelings of limita¬ 
tion. Responsibilities should be handled with awareness of 
foundation being built for future growth. 


OCTOBER 5 PERSONAL MONTH 

New people, adventures and excitement may be enjoyed as foil 
for continuing organization and work. Work should not be 
neglected or there may be regrets later. 

Start of 5 Personal Year: Some feelings of expansion may provide 
relief in difficult year. _ 


NOVEMBER 6 PERSONAL MONTH 

Harmony at home may require special effort related to family 
duties and responsibilities. 

Start of 5 Personal Year: Domestic fun and excitement may be 
enjoyed as welcome respite from work. 


DECEMBER 7 PERSONAL MONTH 

Progress since start of the Epicycle should be evaluated. Direc¬ 
tion of future activity can be planned. 


Start of 5 Personal Year: Work and planning may feel restrictive 
j.vr'it-ement of next vear becoming apparent. 


1 

APRIL 8 PERSONAL MONTH 

Business or material interests may be advanced by working hard 
and organizing. Significant effort may be required; but likely to 
bring possibilities of advancement. 


1 

MAY 9 PERSONAL MONTH 

Activity or relation with limiting tendencies may be completed. 
Working hard on humanistic or philanthropic ventures may be 
satisfying. 

■ 1 


- • 1 







786 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 20 


I 


5 CONSTRUCTIVE FREEDOM 


5 A time to make changes, expand. i 

PERSONAL A time to seek new directions. I 

YEAR The subject should take action. . \ 

He should be prepared for an important change. \ 


chart^Q 

THE EPICYCLE 


1 


MAY 1 PERSONAL MONTH 

Dynamic forward move with expansive, progressive oppor- , 

tunities possible. Unusual or unexpected support may be com¬ 
bined with own enthusiasm for advancement. 

'i 



JUNE 11/2 PERSONAL MONTH : i 

2 Personal Month: Expansive possibilities may develop by help- » 

ing others with their ventures. j* 

11 Personal Month: Spiritual expansion leading to new direc- 
lions is possible. Heightened sensitivity may increase awareness 
oi opportunities. \ 



JULY 3 PERSONAL MONTH [: 

Time for pleasure with friends, travel and adventure. Joy of liv¬ 
ing may be expressed in unusual, unique or unexpected experi- 
ence with related changes leading to expansion. ' 



AUGUST 13/4 PERSONAL MONTH .( 

Failure to accomplish work now may interfere with possibilities 
later this year. Even minor tasks may feel restrictive after several 
months of free-wheeling expansion. 


... - 

SEPTEMBER 14/5 PERSONAL MONTH 

Heightened excitement, activity and opportunities. Pleasure and ! 

expansion may be impeded by restless nature or excessive ap- 

petite for physical stimulation. '■ 


JANUARY 6 PERSONAL MONTH 

Changes and expansion in home and family may create new 
sense of excitement and adventure in domestic life. 

End of 4 Personal Year: Family duties requiring hard work 
should not be neglected. 

OCTOBER 6 PERSONAL MONTH » 

Excitement and activity in family activities or relating to friend- jj 

ship, affection or love. 

Start of 6 Personal Year: Domestic duties liable to be present. 1 

Should be started, at the very least. i 

k? 


FEBRUARY 7 PERSONAL MONTH 

A time alone for study or meditation may lead to changes and 
new directions. Restlessness and introspective needs may con¬ 
flict. 

End of 4 Personal Year: A time to plan means of taking ad¬ 
vantage of new awarenesses. 

NOVEMBER 16/7 PERSONAL MONTH “j 

Self-centered or retiring manner and "different" wavelength g 

hampering communication may interfere with opportunities for i 

expansion. 3 

Start of 6 Personal Year: Reflection and domestic issues may | 

block excitement and opportunities. jjj 

1 

MARCH 8 PERSONAL MONTH 

Realistic, practical approach with combined dynamic awareness 
of new directions may begin, change or expand business ven¬ 
tures. 

- J 

DECEMBER 8 PERSONAL MONTH | 

New people and opportunities, particularly in the business £ 

world, may point dramatically in progressive directions. I 

Start of 6 Personal Year: Business and domestic interests must be | 

in harmony to allow expansion. | 

e 

1 

APRIL 9 PERSONAL MONTH 

An important relation or experience may founder or end, allow¬ 
ing pursuit of different, more progressive course. Deep feelings 
are likely to be involved. 







THE EPICYCLE 


787 


1 

CHART 20 

THE EPICYCLE 

r\ BALANCE j 

f~| RESPONSIBILITY ! 

U LOVE i 

L_ 

6 A timt 

PERSONAL A time 

YEAR 

! 

1 

to take care of family responsibilities. 5 

to work for harmony. j 

The subject should be receptive. j-: 

i 

i 

i 

1 

i 

i 

1 

i 


APRIL 1 PERSONAL MONTH 

Breakdown of old conditions likely to be helpful with home and ; 

family. New start of activity or relation may add to balance in ■ 

domestic life. ■ 

j. 

r 



MAY 11/2 PERSONAL MONTH j 

2 Personal Month: A time of quiet with emotions in balance s 

while awaiting developments related to home and family. t 

11 Personal Month: Increased awareness may add balance, har- 

mony to domestic environment. ( 

1 


JUNE 3 PERSONAL MONTH { 

A time to entertain, socialize and enjoy spouse, children or close ! 

friends. Creative or artistic talents may be used to beautify home ! 

life. ? 

-- 1 


JULY 13/4 PERSONAL MONTH 

Matters involving home, family may be organized with hard 
work. Domestic duties, responsibilities are likely to feel limiting 
and oppressive. 


- - > 

AUGUST 14/5 PERSONAL MONTH 

Restlessness and need for excessive physical stimulation may ;■ 

upset harmony at home. Fear of taking risks may impede needed 

changes or expansion in domestic matters. ; 



SEPTEMBER 6 PERSONAL MONTH 

Duties and responsibilities of home and family may bring satis- l 

faction along with a sense of restriction. Deep pleasures of love 1 ; 

and marriage may be especially enjoyable. ;• 

Jr\ 

J- 

1 

JANUARY 7 PERSONAL MONTH 

Time may be spent alone reviewing past and present, con¬ 
templating future of home and family matters. 

End of 5 Personal Year : Waning expansive desires may conflict 
with introspective needs. 

OCTOBER 7 PERSONAL MONTH i; 

Time may be spent alone analyzing domestic responsibilities. 

Home and family matters should be taken care of when neces- : 

sary. / 

Start of 7 Personal Year: New awarenesses may be developed to T 

aid in harmonizing home environment. ! 

1 

FEBRUARY 8 PERSONAL MONTH 

Dynamic power used now may advance business interests, 
strongly affect domestic life. 

End of 5 Personal Year: Unusual or exciting opportunities may 
conflict with family needs. 

NOVEMBER 8 PERSONAL MONTH 5 % 

Decisive actions may be taken to better balance domestic matters jr 

with business interests. L ‘ 

Start of 7 Personal Year: Long-range plans may be contemplated 
to reduce family/business conflicts. 


MARCH 9 PERSONAL MONTH 

Completion of friendly or loving relation may create strongly 
emotional situation. Tolerance and compassion are probably re¬ 
quired. 

DECEMBER 9 PERSONAL MONTH 

Completion of phase of domestic activity may add to household 
harmony. 

Start of 7 Personal Year: Experiences may be completed to allow 
for more contemplative time next year. 


C - - 


















788 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 20 



THE EPICYCLE 


ANALYSIS 

UNDERSTANDING 



A time to study past and present—plan for the future. 
A time to reflect, analyze, meditate. 

The subject should be receptive. 


JANUARY 8 PERSONAL MONTH 
Business affairs may be planned to 
relieve responsibilities for this year’s 
introspective activities. 

End of 6 Personal Year: Domestic re¬ 
sponsibilities must be planned for, too. 


FEBRUARY 9 PERSONAL MONTH 
Activities may be completed which in¬ 
terfere with spending time alone or in 
study. 

End of 6 Personal Year: Emotional situa¬ 
tions must be handled with tolerance and 
compassion. 


MARCH 1 PERSONAL MONTH 
A time to start or expand meditative or 
study activities. Changes may be made to 
reflect inner growth. 


APRIL 11/2 PERSONAL MONTH 
2 Personal Month: Cooperation may be 
necessary with others on projects related 
to inner harmony. 

11 Personal Month: A time to reflect 
on vyays to transmit awarenesses to 
others. 


MAY 3 PERSONAL MONTH 
A break may be taken, from studies, but 
activities should be kept muted. Some of 
the new awareness may be expressed in 
artistic creation or quiet joyfulness. 


JUNE 13/4 PERSONAL MONTH 
Hard work may be necessary to take care 
of other duties while keeping contem¬ 
plative studies on course. Time alone is 
likely to feel limiting. 


JULY 14/5 PERSONAL MONTH 
Restlessness, need for stimulation from 
others may interfere with study or medi¬ 
tation. Expanded horizons may be re¬ 
lated to inner growth. 


AUGUST 6 PERSONAL MONTH 
Spiritual growth is likely to relate to 
home and family. Domestic responsibil¬ 
ities have to be taken care of even if they 
interfere with introspective ventures. 


SEPTEMBER 16/7 PERSONAL MONTH 
Very introspective needs—possibly with¬ 
drawal or great shyness—may make for 
difficulties with others. Possibility of in¬ 
tense inner growth is present. 


OCTOBER 8 PERSONAL MONTH 
Some of year's awarenesses may be put 
into practice using a practical, realistic 
approach. 

Start of 8 Personal Year: Business oppor¬ 
tunities may conflict with new illumina¬ 
tion. 


NOVEMBER 9 PERSONAL MONTH 
Phase of inner growth may be com¬ 
pleted. New awareness in humanistic, 
philanthropic endeavors may be ex¬ 
pressed. 

Start of 8 Personal Year: Phase of 
business venture may be completed in 
preparation for next year's movement. 


DECEMBER 1 PERSONAL MONTH 
Start of 8 Personal Year: Old conditions 
may be changed to reflect this year's new 
awarenesses as well as the coming change 
from this introspective 7 Personal Year to 
the approaching materialistic 8 Personal 
Year. 




















THE EPICYCLE 


789 


CHART 


20 


THE EPICYCLE 


MATERIAL SATISFACTION 


8 A time to act dynamically. 

PERSONAL A time to accomplish, advance and achieve recognition. 
YEAR The subject should take action. 



FEBRUARY 1 PERSONAL MONTH 
Dynamic action may be taken aimed at 
achievement and recognition. 

End of 7 Personal Year: Old conditions 
impeding inner growth may be changed. 


MARCH 11 12 PERSONAL MONTH 
2 Personal Month: Current power may 
be used, in cooperation with others, to 
move forward. 

11 Personal Month: Nervous tension may 
impede progress. 


APRIL 3 PERSONAL MONTH 
Friends may present opportunities for 
advancement and recognition. The feel¬ 
ings of power may be enjoyed—for con¬ 
trast, a break from the dynamic activity 
may be taken. 


MAY 13(4 PERSONAL MONTH 
A time to work hard for forward move¬ 
ment. Details and organization may 
have to be taken care of. Disturbing feel¬ 
ings of limitation about power may be 
felt. 


JUNE 14/5 PERSONAL MONTH 
Restlessness or fear of risks may impede 
accomplishments. Strong action may be 
taken to expand horizons by initiating or 
taking advantage of change. 


JULY 6 PERSONAL MONTH 
Current power may be used to deal with 
home and family responsibilities. Action 
may be taken to maintain and improve 
domestic harmony. 


AUGUST 16/7 PERSONAL MONTH 
Power derived from “different” wave¬ 
length may be used but others may be 
confused with self-contained or inflexible 
approach. 


SEPTEMBER 8 PERSONAL MONTH 
A time to move, forward dramatically 
toward business expansion, financial im¬ 
provement and recognition. A time to act 
for maximum impact. 


NOVEMBER 19 1 PERSONAL MONTH 
Self-centeredness, aggressiveness or fear 
may impede progress. 

Start of 9 Personal Year: A time to begin 
closing out an experience so that it 
can be completed next year. 


DECEMBER 11/2 PERSONAL MONTH 
2 Personal Month: Sensitivity and re¬ 
ceptivity may be helpful in business ac¬ 
tivities. 

11 Personal Year: Inner growth of this 
Epicycle may be consolidated. 



JANUARY 9 PERSONAL MONTH 
Activities which delay accomplishment, 
advancement and recognition may be 
completed. 

End of 7 Personal Year: Last year’s con¬ 
templative ventures may be phased out. 


OCTOBER 9 PERSONAL MONTH 
Business activities which have run their 
course should be completed with com¬ 
passion and understanding. 

Start of 9 Personal Year: A time to 
prepare for additional endings in coming 
year. 



















790 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 20 


CHART 


20 


THE EPICYCLE 


SELFLESSNESS 

HUMANITARIANISM 


9 A time to complete experiences. 

PERSONAL A time to contemplate future plans, 

YEAR The subject should take action only in order to complete. 

He should be receptive. 

He should be prepared for an important change. 


JANUARY 1 PERSONAL MONTH 

A time to emphasize originality and individuality in revising old 
conditions. 

End of 8 Personal Year: Waning power may be used to make 
dynamic changes. 


OCTOBER 1 PERSONAL MONTH 

Start of 1 Personal Year: Change of Epicycles may begin to be 
felt. Completions should be phased out and replaced by new ac¬ 
tivities, relations and plans for the future. 


FEBRUARY 11/2 PERSONAL MONTH 

2 Personal Month: Developments related to completions are like¬ 
ly to take time, 

11 Personal Month: Spiritual illumination may clarify direction 
to endings. ' 

End of 8 Personal Year: Waning power may be used to help 
others with their completions. 


NOVEMBER 2 PERSONAL MONTH 

A quiet pause as one Epicycle ends and another gets under way. 
Quiet harmony should be the objective in this interim period. 
Start of 1 Personal Year: Plans for the coming year may be con¬ 
templated. 


MARCH 3 PERSONAL MONTH 

Activities or relations with friends may be completed. Social 
times and travel may be enjoyed as a break in an emotion-filled 
year. 


APRIL 13/4 PERSONAL MONTH 

Restrictive feelings are likely from completions in progress. 
Rigidity or laziness may interfere with the work to accomplish. 


MAY 14/5 PERSONAL MONTH 

Restlessness or fear of risks may stop-movement toward comple¬ 
tion. Conflict between desire to expand and desire to complete 
may prove confusing. 


JUNE 6 PERSONAL MONTH 

A time to complete experiences related to home and family to 
provide increased domestic balance. Endings related to love and 
romance are likely to be very emotional. 


DECEMBER 3 PERSONAL MONTH 

The end of the Epicyclel A time to celebrate, relax and express 
the joy of living. Imagination should be used to have a good 
time. 

Start of 1 Personal Year: A time to plan for changes and new 
beginnings in coming year. 



JULY 16/7 PERSONAL MONTH 

Inflexibility or a timid manner may add difficulties in com¬ 
pleting experiences. Time should be spent alone contemplating 
future plans as well as additional endings this year. 


AUGUST 8 PERSONAL MONTH 

Dynamic action may be taken to complete experiences with com¬ 
passion and understanding. Advantage can be taken of endings 
for possible advancement or financial improvement. 









THE EPICYCLE 


791 


20 


CHART | 

THE EPICYCLE 


11 


ILLUMINATION 


11 A time to be open for illumination. 

PERSONAL A time for inner growth and heightened sensitivity. 
YEAR The subject should be receptive. 

See 2 Personal Year also. 


AUGUST 19/1 PERSONAL MONTH 

Opportunities opened by inner growth may be started but may 
be slowed due to egotism or fear. 


SEPTEMBER 2 PERSONAL MONTH 

Developments based on illumination may require patience. 
Issues shouldn’t be forced. 


JANUARY 3 PERSONAL MONTH 

Friends may open doors to new awarenesses. Nervous tension 
may get in the way. 


OCTOBER 3 PERSONAL MONTH 

A time to enjoy and express creatively. The expression may be 
based on inner development. 


FEBRUARY 13/4 PERSONAL MONTH 

Illumination may prove disturbing and heighten nervous ten¬ 
sion. Feelings of restriction likely with problems due to height¬ 
ened sensitivity. 


MARCH 14/5 PERSONAL MONTH 

Freedom and expansion may be due to exciting ifmer growth, 
but may be impeded by restlessness or nervous tension. 


APRIL 6 PERSONAL MONTH 

Illumination may effect family relations or close personal rela¬ 
tions. Nervous tension may disturb domestic harmony. 


MAY 16/7 PERSONAL MONTH 

“Different" approach and nervous tension due to new aware¬ 
nesses may confuse or alienate others. 


JUNE 8 PERSONAL MONTH 

Illumination may help with material or business advancement. 
Nervous tension may impede business matters. 


JULY 9 PERSONAL MONTH 

The completion of an activity or experience related to inner 
growth may require sensitivity and understanding. 


NOVEMBER 22/4 PERSONAL MONTH 

4 Personal Month: Work may be required to understand and use 
illumination. 

22 Personal Month: The potential for significant forward move¬ 
ment is probably based on new awareness. High-level progress is 
likely to be accompanied by strong nervous tension. 

DECEMBER 14 5 PERSONAL MONTH 

Freedom and expansion based on current year's awarenesses may 
begin now, extend through next year. Freedom and expansion 
may be slowed at this time by nervous tension. 

















792 


REFERENCE CHART NUMBER 20 


i 


1 

chart^Q 

THE EPICYCLE 

22 MASTER BUILDER | 


11 A time t< 

PERSONAL influence 

YEAR The su 

See 4 Per 

3 progress on significant projects or on ventures with significant l 

bject should take action. = 

sonal Year also. \ 



JUNE 1 PERSONAL MONTH i 

A time to change old conditions and take actions to move ven- i 

tures forward dramatically. Individuality should be expressed '• 

through the work. i 

\ 



j 

JULY 1L2 PERSONAL MONTH 

2 Personal Month: Issues shouldn’t be forced. £ 

11 Personal Month: New awarenesses may have important bear- 3 

ing on ventures. Heightened nervous tension is likely to be \ 

present. * 



AUGUST 3 PERSONAL MONTH I? 

Ventures may be expanded by using imagination, creativity and 

verbal capabilities. There should be some time out sometime this 

month for just having fun. i 

s 



SEPTEMBER 4 PERSONAL MONTH ?! 

Hard work, organization and attention to detail may be required 
to move ventures forward. Nervous tension may be present. 


JANUARY 5 PERSONAL MONTH 

Horizons may be dramatically expanded by dynamic ‘potential 
or because of progressof jfrojfects with significant influence. 

OCTOBER 5 PERSONAL MONTH 

A time to feel loose and free. A time to initiate or take advantage ; 

of changes to move ventures along. Responsibility should be ' 

minimized now. A break for fun and pleasure is desirable. 


FEBRUARY 6 PERSONAL MONTH 

Conflicts between home, family and work on significant projects 
may provoke unbalanced emotions. 

NOVEMBER 6 PERSONAL MONTH ji 

Nervous tension is likely to be high, may make it difficult to 3 

harmonize important work and family responsibilities. § 

1 

1 


MARCH 7 PERSONAL MONTH 

Time alone may be spent developing and analyzing plans for im¬ 
portant ventures. 

DECEMBER 7 PERSONAL MONTH i 

A time to meditate and reflect. A time to examine this year’s pro- s 

gress and make plans for the coming year with the understanding jj 

that this year’s strong potential isn't likely to return. i 

■ i 


APRIL 8 PERSONAL MONTH 

Strong forward strides are possible, particularly in business af¬ 
fairs related to promising ventures. Status and recognition may 
result. 

! 

e 

1 

MAY 9 PERSONAL MONTH 

The conclusion of a phase of work or the planning for an impor¬ 
tant venture. There’s likely to be mnch emotion or drama here. 


1 











BIBLIOGRAPHY 


793 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 


Balliett, L. Dow. The Philosophy of Numbers: Their Tone and 
Colors. California: Health Research, 70 Lafayette 
Street, Mokelumne Hill, CA 95245. Originally pub¬ 
lished in 1908, republished 1969. 

A volume by the founder of the modern study of 
numerology has much historical interest. 

Buess, Lynn M. Numerology for the New Age. California: De 
Vorss and Company, P.O. Box 550, Marina del Rey, 
CA 90291, 1978. 

Excellent insights with emphasis on spiritual and psy¬ 
chological interpretations. Development of new mod¬ 
ifiers and a new twist- to progressions should be of 
interest. 

Campbell, Florence. Your Days are Numbered. Pennsylvania: 
The Gateway, Pleasant Valley, Bucks County, PA, 
1931. 

A must for any student of numerology. The author’s 
fine perceptions and breadth of coverage have kept this 
book vital for fifty years. 

Hitchcock, Helyn. Helping Yourself with Numerology. New 
York: Parker Publishing Company, Inc., West Nyack, 
NY, 1972. 

A fine text with many different modifiers discussed. 

Jordan, Juno. Numerology, The Romance in Your Name. Cal¬ 
ifornia: J. F. Rowny Press, Santa Barbara, CA, 1965. 

Another must for any student of numerology. Excellent 
discussions of the elements, many of the modifiers and 


794 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 


the progressed chart (here called the Table of Events) 
from a sensitive, humanist viewpoint. The Life Path 
(here called the Birth Force) is discussed as secondary in 
importance to the Expression (here called the Destiny 
Number). 

Taylor, Ariel Yvon. Numerology Made Plain. California: New¬ 
castle Publishing Co., Inc., North Hollywood, CA, 
1973. 

Of particular interest is the listing of over 1500 common 
names with their Expression and Soul Urge. 

Vaughan, Richard Blackmore. Numbers as Symbols of Self-Dis¬ 
covery. New York: Phantasy Press, 358 State Street, 
Brooklyn, NY 11217, 1973. 

This book lists hundreds of birth dates and birthnames 
of celebrated personalities along with their core 
elements. 





----— - - - — - - - 1 —;—-— --- . — — .. .... 

OCCULT EACH VOLUME—$12.95 

TWO-VOLUME SET—$25.90 
(Slightly higher in Canada) 


NUMEROLOGY, the simplest of the occult sciences to master, offers 
deep insights into the personality. You can use numerology to 
understand yourself, friends, associates and lovers. You can see the 
dynamics of relationships . and you can determine the best time to 
marry, change jobs, move, invest and travel. 

HERE IS THE DEFINITIVE WORK ON NUMEROLOGY 


Organized for clarity that a beginner 
can grasp easily and detailed so that 
the advanced student will find useful 
new information. 

This two-volume set is designed as a 
working manual. Among its features 
are many examples, detailed working 
charts containing all the information 
needed, and some new material on 
the meanings of the Master Numbers 
and Doubled Numbers. 

SPECIAL FEATURES OF VOLUME I: 
THE PERSONALITY READING 

□ Explanations of the fouCmajor 
"core" elements and the modifiers of 
the reading, and their relative impor¬ 
tance. 

□ A complete special reference chart 
section—a unique, preassembled for¬ 
mat which presents all the infor¬ 
mation you need quickly and easily, 
making memorization unnecessary. 

□ Complete sample character read¬ 
dings with step-by-step guidelines. 

□ Illustrations of how to resolve the 
conflicts and ambiguities present in 
any character reading. 

SPECIAL FEATURES OF VOLUME II: 
ADVANCED PERSONALITY 
ANALYSIS AND READING THE 
PAST PRESENT AND FUTURE 

□ Complete, sample advanced read¬ 
ings with step-by-step guidelines. 

□ Explanations of short-term and 
long-term time cycles and their rela¬ 
tive importance. 


□ A complete special reference chart 
section —a unique, preassembled 
format which presents all the infor¬ 
mation you need quickly and easily, 
making memorization unnecessary. 

□ Progressed Readings with step-by- 
step guidelines. 

□ Illustrations of how to resolve the 
conflicts and ambiguities present in 
any Progressed Reading. 

□ A new simple graphic method for 
pinpointing dates and significant life 
changes. 


PHOTO: MARY LEIPZIGER 



Numerologist Matthew Goodwin, a 
graduate of Masasachusetts Institute 
of Technology, brings to his craft a 
love of numbers, mathematics and 
scientific analysis. 

Mr. Goodwin lives in Los Angeles 
with his wife, children and great dane 
where he studies, teaches numerology, 
does private consultations and ad¬ 
vanced research in the field. 


NEWCASTLE PUBLISHING, INC. 

PO BOX 7589, VAN NUYS, CA 91409 

VOLUME I: ISBN 0-87877-053-4 • VOLUME IL ISBN 0-87877-054-2 • 2 VOLUME SET: ISBN 0-87877-999-X 








