
The Kabala of 
Numbers 



(1920) 



Sepharial 



CONTENTS 

INTRODUCTION 1 

I THE POWER OF NIMBERS 5 

II GEOMETRICAL RELATIONS OF THOUGHT 17 

III NUMEROLOGY 25 

IV VARIOUS METHODS OF KABALISM 38 

V NUMBER, FORM, CLOUR, SOUND 54 

VI NAMES, NUMBERS, AND INCIDENTS 62 

VII CHANCE EVENTS 74 

VIII REDUCTION TO LAW 83 

IX NUMBER AND AUTOMATISM 94 

X THOUGHT-READING BY NUMBERS 102 

XI THE SIGNIFICANCE OF NUMBERS 1 1 1 

XII OF THINGS LOST 120 

XIII THE KABALISM OF CYCLES 129 

XIV SUCCESS AND FAILURE 138 

XV THE LAW OF VALUES 143 

XVI BRUNO'S SYMBOLISM 162 

XVII COSMIC ANALOGIES 176 

XVIII SOME RECONDITE PROBLEMS 1 89 

XIX GOD GEOMETRISES 198 



THE 
KABALA OF NUMBERS 

INTRODUCTION 

The science of numbers is of remotest antiquity. Among 
the Aryans and Greeks, the Assyrians and Egyptians, we 
find indications of a development which gave to numbers 
their real significance and employed them in a system of 
symbolism which had respect to something more than 
mere enumeration. 

While it is true that a figure is a symbol denoting a 
quantity, it is also a fact that a quantity thus symbolised 
may denote much more than a mere number, as we may 
learn from chemical analysis, where two bodies 
consisting of an equal number of atoms of the same 
elements are of an entirely different chemical nature. 
This is the case as between phenylisocyanide and 
benzonitrile. But here we have a difference in the 
arrangement of the atoms, the single atom of nitrogen 
being active in the one and passive in the other molecule. 
The position serves, however, for a general thesis which 
regards all bodies as compounded of elements drawn 



from a single base, their specific differences being due to 
the domination of one over another element in them. The 
astrologers affirm that individual character answers to a 
similar analysis, for where as all men are constituted 
from the same cosmic forces, one has more of Saturn in 
him than others, being born under the dominance of that 
planet, while another has more of the nature of Mars, on 
account of its ascendancy or elevation at his birth, 
corresponding differences of character being observable 
in them, the one being ponderous, melancholic and 
tacturn, the other energetic, enterprising and 
demonstrative. Man, in fine, is a modification of cosmic 
elements, a composite of cosmic forces, like any other 
body. But also something more. Behind the coloured 
glass there is always the light. The intelligence striking 
through the composite of personal organisation reveals 
itself as character. 

Similarly, behind the cosmos there is an Intelligence 
which manifests to us through cosmic elements as 
Nature. God geometrises, and in Nature we have the 
geometrical expression of the Divine Intelligence. 
Crystallisation takes place according to definite laws. All 
the superior metals crystallise at the angle or 
complemental angle of a regular polygon, which may be 
inscribed in a circle; and theses angles are those which 
are indicated by the astral science as operative. Water, 
which the ancients referred to in a mystical sense as the 
mother of all things, their material base, crystallises at an 
angle of 60 degrees. The universe is but the 



crystallised ideation of God; it is a divine thought- form. 
It is by the study of numbers, therefore, that we may 
learn the laws of divine expression, from the constitution 
of the universe down to the most trivial occurrence in its 
evolutional progress. What we call an event is but a 
displacement and rearrangement of the parts of our 
sphere of reality. Changes taking place in the cosmos are 
accompanied by changes in all its constituents, and these 
changes may converge to a cataclysm. They may also 
produce a shower of rain, an epidemic, or a rise of a 
penny per cental in the price of wheat. Admitting man's 
relations to the cosmos, and it would be difficult to deny 
them, there is really no end to the concatenation of 
effects which may arise from any single cosmic 
disposition, as for instance, Sun oppose Mars, when our 
earth lies in the diameter of the Martian sphere of 
influence. 

In the study of numbers, therefore, we are not concerned 
with figureology, or mere symbolism, but with quantities 
and geometrical relations. This study has its principles, 
its alphabet, its language and terminology, and its 
signification. In the course of these pages I shall 
endeavour to show that there is a signification attaching 
to numbers which for lack of a better term I must call 
occult; for although it would be a comparatively easy 
matter to trace a relationship existing between man and 
the universe, it would be by an arguement of a mystical 
nature only that any connection between numbers and 
events could be traced. Yet, if I show that this connection 
exists, there will be at least sufficient 



ground on which to establish such an argument, from 
which, possibly, might arise a deeper under- standing and 
wider appreciation of that ancient key to the mysteries of 
the universe which was rediscovered and partially 
formulated by Baron Swedenborg in the Doctrine of 
Correspondences. In this doctrine, Matter is the ultimate 
expression of Spirit, as Form is that of Force. Therefore, 
for every spiritual Force there is a corresponding material 
Form. The whole of Nature thus becomes an expression 
of the underlying spiritual world, and its physiognomy is 
to us the chiefest source of inspiration. The laws 
governing this expression are traceable only in terms of 
numbers, i.e. of geometrical ratios. The moral sense is 
only a subconscious recognition of the integrity and 
harmony of natural laws, a reflex of the greater 
environment. There is an analogy between the laws of 
Matter and those of Mind. They may arise from a 
common cause. The science of numbers is the key to 
both. 



CHAPTER I 

THE POWER OF NUMBERS 

Figures are the means employed by us to express definite 
quantities. They do not express anything of quality. Thus, 
if we say 2 eggs and 2 eggs make 4 eggs, we leave out of 
consideration the fact that one or more of them may be 
bad. From this we learn that 2, or any other number, is 
potentially good or evil, its quantity being unaffected. 

Every number has a certain power which is not expressed 
by the figure or symbol employed to denote quantity 
only. This power rests in an occult connection existing 
between the relations of things and the principles in 
nature of which they are the expressions. 

Revelation first took a demonstrable form when man 
evolved the numerical sequence 012345678 9, by 
whatever symbols it was expressed. 

In this series stands for infinity, the Infinite boundless 
Being, the fons et origo of all things, the Brahmanda or 
egg of the universe, the solar system in its entirety; hence 
universality, cosmopolitanism, circumambulation, 
voyaging. But also for negation, circumference, 



limitation, and privation. Thus it is the universal paradox, 
the infinitely great and the infinitely small, the circle of 
infinity and the point at the centre, the atom. 

1 symbolises manifestation, assertion, the positive and 
active principle. It stands for the Logos, the manifestation 
of the Infinite and Unmanifest. It represents the ego, self- 
assertion, positivism, egotism, separateness, selfhood, 
isolation, distinction self-reliance, dignity, and rulership. 
In a religious sense, it symbolises the Lord. In a 
philosophical and scientific sense, the synthesis and 
fundamental unity of things. In a material sense, the unit 
of life, the individual. It is the made manifest. It is the 
symbol of the Sun. 

2. The number of antithesis; also of witness and 
confirmation. The binomial, as plus and minus, active 
and passive, male and female, positive and negative, 
profit and loss, etc. It stands for the dualism of 
manifested life - God and Nature, Spirit and Matter, and 
their relationships. It denotes agreement, also separation, 
the law of alternation, subject and object, reflection. As 
uniting in itself opposite terms and principles, it denotes 
creation, production, fruition, combination. Primarily the 
two conditions, the manifest and the unmanifest, the 
explicit and the implicit. The symbol of the Moon. 

3. The trilogy; the trinity of life, substance, and 
intelligence, of force, matter, and consciousness 
Creation, preservation, and resolution. The family - 
father, mother, and child. The three dimensions. The 



three postulates - the thinker, the thought, and the thing. 
Duality reflected in consciousness, as in time and space, 
making a trinity of states, as the past, present, and future; 
therefore, extension of the self; the self-extensive faculty; 
volition; procedure; penetration. The symbol of Mars. 

4. The number of reality and concretion. The material 
universe. The cube or square. Physical laws; logic; 
reason. Appearance, physiognomy, science. Cognition by 
perception, experience, knowledge. The cross, 
segmentation, partition, order, classification. The 
swastika, the wheel of the law, sequence, enumeration. 
The intellect; consciousness, as discerning between the 
spiritual and material, the noumenal and phenomenal 
worlds, represented by the higher and lower triad. Hence 
discernment, discretion, relativity. The symbol of 
Mercury. 

5. Expansion is represented by this number. 
Inclusiveness, comprehension, understanding, 
judgement. Increase, fecundity, propagation. Justice, 
reaping, harvesting. Reproduction of self in the material 
world, fatherhood, rewards and punishments. The seed- 
fruit or pomegranate, multiplication. The symbol of 
Jupiter. 

6. The number of co-operation. Marriage, interlacing, a 
link, connection. Reciprocal action, counterpoise. The 
interaction of the spiritual and material, the mental and 
the physical in man, the psyche, psychology, divination, 
communion, sympathy. Psychism, telepathy, 
psychometry. 



Alchemy. Conversion. Concord, harmony, peace, 
satisfaction. Goodness, beauty and truth, as tested by 
harmony. Attainment, restitution. Intercourse, 
reciprocity. Connubiality, the relations of the 
sexes. The symbol of Venus. 

7. The number of completion. Time and space. Duration, 
distance. Old age, decadence, death, or endurance, 
stability, immortality. The seven ages, days of the week, 
etc. The seven seals, principles in man, notes and 
colours. The triad and quaternary; the perfect man, Adam 
Kadmon; the cycle of evolution; wisdom, perfection, 
equipoise, balance, rest. The symbol of Saturn. 

8. The number of dissolution. It denotes the law of 
cyclic evolution, the breaking back of the natural to the 
spiritual. Reaction, revolution, fracture, rupture, 
disintegration, segregation, decomposition, anarchism. 
Lesion, separation, divorce. Inspiration following 
respiration, afflatus, genius, invention. Deflection, 
eccentricity, waywardness, aberration, madness. The 
symbol of Uranus. 

9. The number of regeneration. A new birth. Spirituality, 
sense-extension, premonition, going forth, voyaging. 
Telaesthesia, dreaming, clairvoyance, clairaudience. 
Reformation, nebulosity, pulsation, rhythm; reaching out, 
extension, publication; archery, prediction, revelation; a 
thought-wave, apparition, wraith, mist, cloud, obscurity, 
exile, mystery. The symbol of Neptune. These are some 
of the links in the almost endless chain of associated 
ideas centring about the nine digits and the cipher. In 
some systems of 



8 



interpretation, the cypher is put last, so that the first and 
last are brought together to form 10, the perfect number 
in the decimal system; but in the Hebrew scheme, the 
number 12 has that distinction, being the product of 3 
into 4, as 7, another sacred number, is their sum. The 
foregoing interpretation of the numbers is applied to the 
unit value of any number, as 73 1 = 11 = 2, in which 2 is 
the unit value. Thus all numbers have final reference to 
one of the nine digits. 

The following Minor Key to the interpretation of 
numbers may prove useful, being in many respects more 
concise and easier of application than the foregoing:- 

In this system - 

1. Denotes individuality and possible egotism, self- 
reliance, affirmation, distinction. 

2. Relationship, psychic attraction, emotion, 
sympathy or antipathy, doubt, vacillation. 

3. Expansion, increase, intellectual capacity, riches 
and success. 

4. Realisation, property, possession, credit and 
position, materiality. 

5. Reason, logic, ethics, travelling, commerce, utility. 

6. Co-operation, marriage, reciprocity, sympathy, 
play, art, music, dancing. 

7. Equilibrium, contracts, agreements, treaties, 
bargains, harmony or discord. 

8. Reconstruction, death, negation, decay, loss, 
extinction, going out. 

9. Penetration, strife, energy, enterprise, dividing, 
anger, keenness. 



In this scheme the answering planets are respectively - 

1. The Sun 6. Venus 

2. The Moon (New) 7. The Moon (Full) 

3. Jupiter 8. Saturn 

4. The Earth or Sun 9. Mars 

5. Mercury. 

Although in the Hebraic system the number 12, as 
already stated, appears to have stood for perfection, the 
earliest enumeration would seem to have been made from 
Chaldean sources, which is distinctly decimal. Thus we 
have- 



1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 


It 


3 


1 


7 


n 


1 


l 


n 


ft 


10 


20 


30 


40 


60 


60 


70 


80 


90 


h 


3 


h 


o 


3 


D 


9 


D 


s 



100 200 300 400 600 600 700 800 000 

thousands being indicated by a dot oyer any of 
then numeral letters. Hera it ia clearly seen that 
the notation of numbers did not have any other than 
the decimal baaa. 

The Greeks, according to liddell and Scott, 
employed the following system of enumeration : — 

la203y4Jk6^7fSj,O0 
lft 20k SOX 40p GQv 60- 70o 80r 90- 
lQQp 200r 300r 400v 5000 00% 700^ 800m 



A stroke to the right above, raised the power of a 



10 



unit by 100; the one on the left,below, raised it by 



1000. Thus e=5, €'=000, ,«-5000. 

The vau =6, and sameoh =-60, of the Hebrew are 
not represented, nor is the final p =900. 

By a slight variation from the above scheme, 
but by a method consistent in itself, the following 
kabalism has been developed from the Apoca- 
lypse 1 : — 



Eiriartificoy 

ll/COUf 

2ireipt)iJia 
Axpaaria 



The Conqueror = 1000 

Intuitively Wise = 999 

The Higher Mind = 888 

The Cross - 777 

The Lower Mind = 666 

Desire «= 555 

Serpent Coil = 444 

Sensuality -= 333 



These are the seven principles of the human being, and 
represent the stages of his evolution from the animal to 
the divine. 

The principles corresponding to them in the esoteric 
philosophy of the East are - 



The Conqueror 


Atma 


Intuitively Wise 


Buddhi 


The Higher Mind 


Buddhi-Manas 


The Cross 


Antaskarana 


The Lower Mind 


Kama-Manas 


Desire 


Kama 


Serpent Coil 


Lingam 


Sensuality 


Sthula 



The Apocalypse Unsealed, by James M.Pryse 



11 



The use of glyphs in the form of literal numbers, for the 
purpose of veiling certain revelations or teachings not 
intended for general readers, is a feature peculiar to all 
Oriental systems. The Hindus have such glyphs, and they 
also make use of numbers to veil their knowledge. Thus, 
we have what are called Mantrams used as invocations in 
the ordinary way, but understood by the instructed to 
cover choice secrets of natural or spiritual knowledge. 
The Acharyavagabhedya mnemonic gives the number of 
days expired from the beginning of the Kali Yuga to the 
beginning of the reformation under Sri S'ankaracharya, 
namely, 1,434,160, which, being reduced to years, gives 
K.Y. 3927. But, as the Kali Yuga began in 3102 B.C. 
(February), we derive the year A.D. 825. The great 
philosopher was therefore twenty years of age, having 
been born on the 8 th April (O.S.) 805 A.D. 2 

The value of pi, which expresses the relations of the 
circumference to the diameter of a circle, was concealed 
in the great cycle known as the Age of Brahma, 
311,040,000,000,000 years. This age is one hundred 
years of Brahma, and a Brahmic year is therefore 
3,110,400,000,000 solar years. This number is again 
divided by 360, which gives the value of the Brahmanic 
Day or 8,640,000,000 years. Then, by adding together 
the value for the age, year, and day of Brahma, we have 
314159, etc., which is the familiar value of pi or very 
nearly, 355 divided by 113. 



2 *Light of Truth (Siddhanta Dipika), July 1910 et seq.Edited by V.V.Ramanan, 
Madras 



12 



Similarly, the Hebrews expressed this value in the name 
of the seven male-female creative powers, Elohim (trans. 
God), thus - 



M a — 1 — 


1 


h 1 -30- 


3 


n h - 5 = 


5 


- i - 1- 


I 


D m=.40 = 


4 



Value 14 

These 14 correspond to the seven Prajapatis and their 
S'aktis, the positive and negative, active and passive, 
principles in the Oriental cosmogony. 

These figures being disposed at the angles of a 
pentagram, the symbol of the Grand Man, the Adam 
Kadmon of the Kabalists, are found to read 31415. 




13 



and they express the following geometrical and 
cosmogonical concept:- 




A kabala, as embodying any secret information, may 
assume a variety of forms - literal, numerical, or 
hieroglyphic; but as we are now concerned chiefly with 
the nature and power of numbers, it will be advisable to 
confine ourselves to these, their connection with the 
literal form, and the uses to which they may be applied. 
In this connection we shall have to make use of a 
symbolism which has relation to the planetary system. It 
will be well, therefore, in this place to give the planetary 
numbers as revealed by John Hay don in his Holy Guide :- 

The number of the Sun is 1 positive 

The number of the Sun is 4 negative 



14 



The number of the Moon is 7 positive. 

The number of the Moon is 2 negative. 

That of Saturn is 8 

That of Jupiter is 3 

That of Mars is 9 

That of Venus is 6 

That of Mercury is 5 . 

It will be seen that an extension of these numbers 
according to their cosmic order yields the glyph of the 
divine number 15, which, as expressing the name 
Jah, the Hebrews replace in their enumeration by i.e 9 
and 6. Thus, we have the signs of the zodiac and the 
planets ruling them, with their numerical values - 

h H t t t DOS * t n h 

83965^^56 938 

7 1 



Then the sum of the five planetary numbers, plus half the 
value of Sun and Moon together = positive 35, and 
negative 34. The sum of these is 69 = 15, and +35-34 = 
1. Hence the saying "Jehovah elohanu, Jehoval achad," 
has reference to this one source of all creations, for achad 
= 1814= 14, the Bi-septenary of Powers employed in the 
creation. 

It will be necessary for the reader to bear in mind the 
numerical values of the planets, and also the days of the 
week ruled by them:- 



15 



Sunday 


ruled by Sun. 


Monday 


ruled by Moon. 


Tuesday 


ruled by Mars. 


Wednesday 


ruled by Mercury. 


Thursday 


ruled by Jupiter. 


Friday 


ruled by Venus. 


Saturday 


ruled by Saturn. 



In the course of this study of the Kabala of Numbers we 
shall have frequent occasion to refer to these values. 

The values given by Haydon appear to be without any or 
due foundation, and those who have used these planetary 
numbers have hitherto offered no reason for attaching 
particular values to the several planets. 

In the course of the following exposition I have supplied 
this deficiency and have given the paradigm from which 
Haydon derived his values, which are traditional among 
the Kabalists. 

It may be well to note that, among the various 
alphabetical systems of enumeration, the most common 
in use is the Hebraic; but that which is capable of the 
most universal application is the phonetic, which is 
related to the planetary values. 



16 



CHAPTER II 

GEOMETRICAL RELATIONS OF THOUGHT 

Before we can begin to understand how numbers may 
have any symbolical meaning or any necessary 
significance in our daily life, we must consider the 
geometrical relations of our thought. 

The unit idea of Being is expressed in the form of a 
circle, which is zero, of indefinite dimension, being either 
the infinite totality or the smallest particle. When we 
posit Being we include all within the circumference of 
our thought and perception. When we posit a being, we 
place the point within the circle. We know that that, or 
any other of its kind, is the centre of its own circle. Thus 
every unit of life has its own universe, its sphere of 
influence, and its relations with the things of its sphere of 
existence. It is a microcosm, a centre of cosmic energy, a 
reflection in time and space of the One. 

If we trace the action or direction of this unit of life we 
follow a definite line of thought, or sequence of events, 
involved in its progress. The point has been put in 
motion, has been given direction; the point generates the 
line. 



17 



What we at first conceive to be a straight line of definite 
direction we soon perceive to be a curve, the directing 
force being outside of the life-sphere of that unit. 

We discern that it has an orbit, and is responding to a 
gravitational pull. So that what was generated within the 
circle answers to the circle. 

Further, we see that none of these units pursues a perfect 
or circular orbit, but that its course is marked by a certain 
eccentricity which entails that at certain stages of its 
career it wanders further from its gravitational centre 
than at others, and then we observe that its progress is 
slower. 

Also, we observe that none of them keeps to a uniform 
plane, but shows a certain inclination or list of its own - 
sometimes being above and again below the normal 
plane. Moreover, it is seen to have an obliquity or 
deviation from the upright, and an oscillation on its own 
line of obliquity. It is, in fact, an average human being or 
a planet, as you please. It is a little world in itself, a 
microcosm. 

Now get back to the point, which is merely position. The 
point is put in direct motion and the line is generated. 
This line, when put in direct motion, generates the 
superficies; and this, again, the solid. Given a line in 
motion, we may derive the circle or the square, the 
symbol of the spirit or that of Matter. From the motion of 
the circle we may derive the cylinder or pillar, and the 
sphere. But if one limb or semicircle remains fixed, its 
complement will by its motion describe an ellipse, 



18 



and at two points lying in the same plane the centre of the 
circle will coincide with the foci. Beyond these three 
motions we cannot proceed. It is similar in the case of the 
square, and its resultant cube, cylinder, and cone. 

Therefore our thought, which is three dimensional, is 
capable of generating from the evolutions of a point these 
figures - the sphere, the cone, and the cube; and their 
superficial equivalents - the circle, the triangle, and the 
square; with their perverts - the oblong and the ellipse. 
These figures have always been used in symbolical 
thought to represent states of consciousness. But we are 
only concerned with them as related to the numbers 1,3, 
4, which denote God, Humanity, and Nature - Osiris, 
Horus, Isis. For we answer to the universal paradigm of 
the One Being, compounded of spirit, soul, and body. 

Therefore we consent in our very being to this necessary 
geometrical relation of thought, and since all geometrical 
relations are expressions of numerical ratios, we give 
natural assent to the power of numbers on which, in the 
Pythagorean concept, the universe is founded. That this is 
truth the great Kepler has demonstrated, and also 
Newton. When, therefore, we ascribe certain qualities or 
properties to a number, it is on account of a particular 
connotation or association of ideas impressed upon us by 
reference to universal standards, principles, and laws. 
Thus, the circle, with its centre, represents to us the sun; 
and by correspondence of the natural with the spiritual, it 
also conveys the idea of the Deity. For, as all 



19 



bodies within the system are illumined and warmed by 
the rays of the sun, which is their gravitational centre, so 
all souls are enlightened and quickened by the wisdom 
and love of God, who is their universal attractor. And as 
there is but one Sun who is supreme in the system, so 
there is but one God who is the universal Lord. It 
answers to the number 1 . 

So the triangle represents to us and connotes the idea of 
humanity, in its threefold aspect of spirit, soul, and body, 
its three-dimensional world of relativity and thought, and 
its threefold concept of time. It answers to the number 3. 

The cross represents matter, but the cross is only the cube 
unfolded. Its number is 4. 

What we have said of certain numbers we hold to be true 
only by reason of the correspondence existing between 
the higher and lower worlds, the sphere of causes and 
that of effects, the noumenal and phenomenal worlds. 
Not that numbers have any qualities or virtues of their 
own, but that they acquire such by reason of their 
quantative relations to the causative world, which is the 
world of thought. A number is a seal or impress of 
natural law as surely as is the shape of a flower, the 
sound of an atmospheric vibration, the colour of an 
etheric wave. The orbit of a planet has relation to its 
mass, bulk, and velocity; and similarly the significance of 
a number answers to definite archetypal or noumenal 
relations. 

By all of which we mean no more than this: that 



20 



there is a system of interpretation in numerology which is 
supported by experience, but has its origin beyond the 
realm of the phenomenal world. If no such system 
existed, it would be impossible to prove the geometrical 
relations of thought. But this is done daily by those who 
make use of numbers for purposes of divination. 

Divination may be regarded as both a science and an art. 
It assumes the properties of a science when there is 
conscious process of discrimination, calculation, and 
interpretation involved. It may be called an art when it is 
conducted by subconscious and automatic means. This 
distinction is necessarily only a crude one, and open to 
many objections. I think I am right in saying that the 
activity of what we call the subconscious mind, in contra- 
distinction to the attentive mind, and the related 
functioning of the automatic faculty, are facts admitted 
by science. But, however that may be, it is nevertheless a 
fact that there is a certain submerged area of the mind- 
sphere which is linked up with the World-Soul and is 
capable of automatically reflecting the things contained 
in the memoria mundi. This we see in the phenomena of 
psychometry, telepathy, and spontaneous clairvoyance. I 
regard astrology as in the nature of a science, as much so 
as astronomy, on which it is based, but inclusive also of 
the higher chemistry of nature, which has regard to the 
properties and reactions of the celestial bodies. The man 
who affirms the solidarity of the solar system and denies 
inter-planetary action is an illogical fool. If he affirms 



21 



interplanetary action and denies the possibility of 
planetary influence in human life, without inquiring 
whether such is a fact or not, he is a mere impostor. 

The whole universe is linked up by such correspondence 
as is affirmed by astrologers to exist between the 
macrocosm and man. I cannot tell you why the sign Aries 
is related to the encephalon. I can only assert it as a fact 
in nature brought home to me by repeated experience of 
the effects of planets in that sign. We know that there is a 
force in nature which we call the attraction of gravitation. 
Science recognises the fact while yet unable to 
demonstrate the attraction. What has been hitherto 
regarded as a "pull" will later be more successfully 
demonstrated as a "push". Professor Hinton has said: 
"We know a great deal about the How of things; it is the 
Why we do not understand". I totally disagree with him. 
We are deplorably ignorant of the first principles of 
existence. Our science is a mere record of observed 
phenomena and experimentation. It must always be so 
while we are ignorant of the nature of Life itself. 

On the other hand, we leave our science behind, and 
make appeal to philosophical and religious principles 
when answering to the Why of existence. In such 
circumstance as this it will be convenient to regard the 
whole universe merely as a symbol of mind. The laws of 
thought imposed upon us by nature are as fully satisfied 
here- 






D 


e 


o 


A 


+ 


1 


3 


4 



22 



as by the most complex demonstration of the Principia of 
Newton or the three laws of Kepler. It is merely a matter 
of interpretation if we regard the universe as a symbol; 
and what else it, or any part of it, may be I have not yet 
discovered. 

All symbols, i.e. ideographs, are geometrical expressions 
of thought. So figures are expressions of numbers, as 
numbers are of quantitive relations. When the astronomer 
affirms that the planets move in elliptical orbits, he is 
employing a symbol and expressing a quantitive 
relationship. He is not expressing a fact, for he knows 
that no body could describe an ellipse about a moving 
focus and not be left behind in space. Yet he affirms the 
elliptical orbit and the proper motion of the sun through 
space at one and the same. When affirming the elliptical 
orbit, he finds it convenient to posit a symbolical or fixed 
focus in the sun and a kenofocus in space. The 
demonstration is elaborate. It answers to observed 
phenomena. But so did the epicycle of Ptolemy. The 
ancient Chinese formulated a theory of eclipses which 
was found to be workable and in line with events, but 
they had no conception of the earth as a spheroid. So, 
whether it be epicycle, ellipse, or cycloidal curve, it is 
pure symbolism; an expression of quantitive relationship, 
not necessarily of fact. 

Similarly, when the chemist uses the symbol H2O for 
water, he expresses a quantitive relationship which does 
not inform us in any way concerning the process by 
which nature derives the fluid from the two gaseous 
volumes. You are left to discover the nature of oxygen 



23 



and that of hydrogen, and whether the compound is 
mechanical or chemical. In this case it is mechanical, as 
if one should take two apples and one orange, and say, 
"Here is fruit". 

If we admit the symbolism of the astronomer and that of 
the chemist, recognising it as an empiricism, we may not 
be accused of being unreasonable in asking that ours 
may be recognised on the same grounds. 

Whatever science we may study we shall find that it has 
its own terminology, its symbolism, and its empirical 
methods. Mathematics, as the basis of all science, is itself 
a universal symbolism, a language into which all 
knowledge is eventually translated and rendered 
communicable. The key to all knowledge is in the 
science of numbers. 



24 



CHAPTER III 
NUMEROLOGY 

Having cleared the ground by a general consideration of 
the principles involved in the science of numerology, we 
may now proceed to an exposition of the subject both 
from a traditional and empirical point of view. I trust I 
have made it clear that no claim is made for any occult 
power or mystic virtue inhering in numbers as such. If 
they possess any such power, it is solely by reason of 
associated ideas in the human mind. I regard numbers 
only in the light of symbols, and in this light I conceive it 
quite possible, nay, even probable, that the higher 
Intelligences who guide the destinies of mankind may 
employ them as an universal language in order to signal 
to our minds something concerning the trend of things 
which is essential to our welfare. If minds may be 
instructed by visions, dreams, and oracles, they may also, 
and more generally, be so by means of the mute language 
- I might say indeed the mute eloquence - of numbers. 
If, as Pythagoras said: "The world is built upon the 
power of numbers," then numbers must be the key to the 
understanding of the world. That many remarkable 



25 



prophecies have been, and can be, made by means of 
numbers is certain, and both Nostradamus and l'Abbe 
Goachim made use of them for this purpose. It was the 
recognition of the numerical value of letters that caused a 
change of name whenever a change of vocation or 
destiny was intended. The change of Abram's name to 
Abraham, that of Jacob to Israel, and similar occurences 
recorded in the Hebrew Scriptures, have a definite 
pointing in this direction. 

Some systems proceed by literal values, i.e. the 
numerical power of letters, and others by the sound or 
phonetic values. I may give an instance of the two 
methods for the purpose of distinction:- 



N 


a 


p 


1 


e 





n 


e 


5 


1 


8 6 


3 


1 


6 


5 


1 


=36 


=9, 


Mars. 












B 


u 


o n 


a 


P 


a 


r 


t e 


2 


6 


6 5 


1 


8 


1 


2 


4 1 


=36 


=9, 


Mars. 













Here the phonetic values of the letters of both Christian 
and surnames amounts to a unit value of 9, which is the 
number of Mars, of fire, and the sword, of incision, 
direction, force, violence, and strife. It is a name that is 
"painted red all over". The key used is that of Haydon. 

The literal enumeration, using the Hebraic values for the 
same name, yields Napoleone = 361 = 10= 1, Sun; 
Buonaparte = 815 = 5, Jupiter, which, according to the 
ancient Hebrew interpretation, would denote dignity, 
power, egotism, rulership, increase, and expansion. 



26 



A highly fortunate combination of names. 

(B's note; I have studied Napoleone in great depth as 
have many. The keys to this man are in his use of 
astrology as well as numerology. This is foremost at the 
heart of the man.) 

At various stages in his remarkable career, he changed 
his signature from Napoleone Buonaparte (the original 
Corsican form) to Napoleon Buonaparte, Napoleon 
Bonaparte, Napoleon, and finally N . 

Many interpreters have used, with great success, the 
values attached to numbers by the Tarot, especially the 
Twenty-two Major Keys, which, as I have elsewhere 
shown, represent the three stages of initiation into the 
Mysteries, consisting of the ten, seven, and three steps 
respectively, and ending in 2 1 , "The Crown of the Magi," 
or 22, "The Fool." 4 

In the Tarotic enumeration, in its present form at least, 
the Twenty-two Keys are thus briefly 
defined :- 

I. The Magician. Symbol of the Creator, who produces 
the universe apparently by the magical power of 
thought. The adept Symbol of the creative will, 
volition, desire, mastery of physical forces. 

II. The Priestess. Symbol of the divine Sophia, creative 
imagination (allied to the creative will), Isis or 
Maya. Symbolises the Gnosis, the creative power, 
attraction and repulsion, the law of the sexes, 
chemical affinity, imagination. 

III. The Empress. The first product of the divine will 
and imagination, Urania. Symbolises ideation, 



3 The Key to the Tarot, A.E.Waite. London: Wm. Rider& Sons, Ltd 
A manual of Occultism. Wm. Rider & Son, Ltd, 1911 



27 



production, expansion, growth, riches, plenty. 

IV. The cube, or the Emperor. Realisation of the virtues, 
affirmation and negation, discussion and solution. 
Happiness by attainment. Material effects. The 
concrete. Establishment, foundation. 

V. The Hierophant or Master. Denotes the universal 
law, religion, discipline, precept and teaching. 
Liberty, regulation. 

VI. The Two Ways, or the Lovers. Denotes 
discrimination, knowledge of good and evil, 
conscience. Privilege and duty, instinct, sex 
relations. 

VII. The Chariot of Osiris. The knowledge of the seven 
principles, magnetic power, intellection, sensation, 
fulfilment of ambitions. 

VIII. Justice. The sword and balance. Denotes retribution, 
judgement, reason, moderation, temperance, 
impartiality. 

IX. The Hermit or Veiled Lamp. Denotes incarnation, 
prudence, circumspection, classification, selection, 
science, discovery, carefulness. 

X. The Sphinx, or Wheel of Fortune. Cause and effect, 
the moral law, periodicity, revolution, circulation. 

XL The Muzzled Lion. Denotes power, force, 
determination, conquest, direction of force, 
determination, mastery, vitality. 

XII. The Sacrifice. Spiritual debasement, reversal, 
overthrow, inversion, madness, depolarisation, loss, 
undoing. 

XIII. Death the Reaper. Change, reaction, disappointment, 



28 



denial, catalepsy, collapse, ruin and death. 

XIV. The Two Urns. The vital forces, friendship, social 
obligations, reciprocal affection, chemistry. 

XV. Typhon or Satan. Evil, wilfulness, mystery, 
controversy, fatality, passion, malice, riot and 
lawlessness. 

XVI. The Stricken Tower. Sudden calamity, pride of 
intellect, ostentation, cataclysms, earthquakes, 
storms, overthrow, accidents. 

XVII. The Star. Faith, assurance, hope, illumination, 
intuition, birth, success, expectations. 

XVIII. The Twilight or Moon. Darkness, doubt, 
hesitation, negation, imbecility, lunacy, an adverse 
change. 

XIX. The Great Light or Sun. Vital energy, magnetism, 
joy, happiness, strength, success, honours, elevation, 
attainment. 

XX. The Resurrection. Spiritual awakening, genius, 
aspiration, activity, new regime, utility, work, 
occupation. 

XXI. The Crown. Long Life, power, adeptship, 
steadfastness, endurance, position, honours, 
distinction, wealth, inheritance. 

XXII. Folly. Necessity, privation, egotism, credulity, 
error, vanity, blindness, ruin, insanity. 



As in the enumeration of name values, it is the unit value 
which is finally significant, though the gross value is of 
some consideration. It may be convenient to reduce one 
or two of the alphabets to their numerical equivalents. 
The following are the unit values of the letters standing 
against them in the two enumerations, viz.:- 



29 



Hebraic Pythagorean 

1-AIYQJ 1-AKT 

2-BCKR 2-BLU 

3-GLS 3-CMX 

4-DMT 4-EOZW 

5-EN 5-EOZW 

6-UVWX 6-FPJ 

7-OZ 7-GQV 

8-FPhPH 8-HR Hi 

9 - Th Tz 9 - 1 S Hu 

The phonetic values, which have relation to the planetary 
enumeration, are as follows: - 

1 - A E Y or I (long) 

2 - B, K, R, PP, G (hard), O (short), Q, X 

3 - J, G (soft), Sh, L 

4 - D, T, M 
5-N 

6 - U, 00, V, W, S 

7 - Z, O (initial) 

8 - P, Ph, F, H (aspirate), Ch (hard) 

9 - Th, Tz 

Now each of these systems has to be employed in 
relation to its own method of interpretation 

(B'snote; Sepharial is correct here. Each system is used 
according to its own methods.) 

The Hebrew method is employed for the kabalistic 
interpretation of the Scripture as in the Zohar. It is 
especially suited to the Tarotic interpretation by the 
Twenty-two Major Keys. 

The ancient writers veiled their secrets by employing one 
of three methods :- 



30 



The Temurah, in which the letters of a word were 
replaced by others after a definite method. They first 
wrote the alphabet in three lines, representing the units, 
tens, and hundreds. These lines, each of nine letters, were 
again divided into three groups, making nine in all. Any 
letter falling in the same group could be interchanged 
with another in the same group. Thus- 



9 


8 


7 


6 


5 


4 


3 


2 


1 


19 


n 


t 


1 


n 


n 


1 


1 
20 


H 


90 


80 


70 


60 


50 


40 


30 


10 


I 


Q 


s 


D 


3 


D 


h 


D 


> 


900 


800 


700 


600 


500 


400 


300 


200 


100 


f 


1 


1 


D 


* 


n 


to 


T 


p 



(a) Gimetria. This was an arithmetical method by which 
each word was replaced by another having the same 
numerical value. 

(b) Notaricon. Selection was made of certain letters 
according to the rules of art, these letters being taken 
from the beginning, middle, or end of the words in a 
sentence, so as to produce a single word from their 
combination. 

Finally, they had a secret writing, which was based upon 
the Temurah. Thus the sentence, 

"God said: Let there be light,". Appears in this 
glyph as follows : — 

The Pythagorean alphabet is used in connection with the 
interpretation employed in that system. 



31 



In this system, every number up to 50, rising thence by 
tens to 100, has a definite signification; and every 
succeeding hundred has a separate meaning. To these 
original interpretations others of a fanciful nature have 
since been added, as 365 -'astronomy and astrology", no 
doubt on account of the division of the year into 365 
days; and 666 ="enmity, secret plots, maliciousness", 
because of its use in the Apocalypse as the number or 
name of The Beast, which some took to be the 
devilincarnate, while others fitted it to the names of 
several illustrious persons in history, imputing to them an 
evil character; when in fact, as Mr James Pryse has 
shown, it meant no more than the animal mind - i.e. the 
natural or lower intelligence of the average man. 

The value or signification of the numbers, according to 
the Pythagorean scheme, is as follows :- 

1 . Impulse, passion, ambition. 

2. Death, fatality, destruction. 

3. Religion, faith, destiny. 

4. Solidity, strength, power. 

5. Marriage, pleasure, joy. 

6. Perfection of work. 

7. Rest, happiness, equilibrium. 

8. Protection, justice. 

9. Grief, anxiety, maiming. 

10. Reason, success, aspiration. 

1 1 . Discord, offence, deceit. 

12. A fortunate writing - a town or city. 

13. Wickedness, wrong. 

14. Sacrifice, loss. 



32 



15. Virtue, culture, integrity. 

16. Luxury, sensuality, good-fortune. 

17. Misfortune, disregard, oblivion. 

18. Miserliness, hardness, tyranny. 

19. Foolishness, insanity. 

20. Wisdom, rigour, melancholy. 

2 1 . Mystery, fecundity, production. 

22. Chastisement, penalty, hurt. 

23. Revolt, bigotry, prejudice. 

24. Travelling, exile, inconstancy. 

25. Intelligence, progeny. 

26. Benevolence, charity. 

27. Bravery, heroism, daring. 

28. Gifts, tokens, omens. 

29. News, a chronicle. 

30. Marriage, celebrity, celebration. 

3 1 . Goodness, aspiration, publicity. 

32. Marriage nuptials, consummation. 

33. Gentleness, virtue, grace. 

34. Suffering, retribution, penalties. 

35. Health, peace, competence. 

36. Intuition, genius. 

3 7 . Fidelity, marital j oy s . 

38. Malice, greed, deformity. 

39. Laudation, honours. 

40. Wedding, feasting, holiday. 

41. Disgrace, scandal, abuse. 

42. Short life, misery. 

43. Worship, religion, sanctuary. 

44. Elevation, kingship, ovation, magnificence. 

45. Progeny, population. 

46. Fecundity, fruitfulness. 



33 



47. Long life, happiness. 

48. Justice, judgement a court. 

49. Avarice, copidity. 

50. Freedom, release, easiness. 

60. Marital bereavement. 

70. Initiation, science, integrity, virtue. 

80. Protection, recovery, convalescence. 

90. Affliction, disfavour, error, blindness. 

100. Divine favour, ministry of angels. 

200. Hesitation, fear, uncertainty. 

300. Philosophy, knowledge, protection. 

400. Long journey, pilgrimage, exile. 

500. Holiness, sanctity, selection. 

600. Perfection, perfect performance. 

700. Might, domination, authority. 

800. Conquest, empire, power. 

900. Strife, war, feuds, eruptions. 

1000. Mercy, charity, sympathy. 

In the calculation of a name the values given above in the 
Pythagorean alphabet are set down in place of the letters. 
The total is then made, and the number is dissected by 
hundreds, tens, and units. 

Thus, by taking out the unit values in the name of the 
great Liberal Minister of State, William Ewart Gladstone, 
we have :- 



William = 


4922913 


=30 


=3 


Ewart = 


54181 


=19 


=1 


Gladstone = 


721491545 


=38 


=2 



34 



Then, from the total 312 we derive :- 

300 = philosophy, knowledge, 
12 = a fortunate writing, a city, 

and from the unit value of the sum 312 we get 6 = 
"Perfection of work", the very characteristic of the man. 

The phonetic alphabet is used in connection with the 
planetary significations as given in Chapter LI consider 
these values as altogether the most reliable and uniformly 
satisfactory. It should be observed that only those letters 
which contribute to the sounding of the word or name are 
to be employed. I have already given an instance in the 
case of Napoleone Buonaparte, the sum and unit values 
of which name = 9, the number of the sword, strife, etc. 
Tested by the same code, we have:- 

Gladstone =23146465=31 =4 
William =6314 = 14 = 5 

Ewart = 16124 = 14 = 5 

Sum = 14 = 5 

Here the number 5 dominates the characteristic signature, 
being inherent in the personal names of the great 
statesman, displaced in the family name and appearing in 
the sum of the whole appellation. It denotes reason, logic, 
ethics, travelling, commerce, utility. 

It will be seen that logic, ethics, and utility are outside 
the sphere of party politics, universally 



35 



ascribed to this character, and are dominant in the 
enumeration of the name. A glance at his most successful 
opponent in the political world will be of interest: - 

Benjamin =2153145 =21 =3 
Disraeli =472131 =18 =9 

Sum 12 =3 

Here we have expansion, increase, capacity, riches, and 
success repeated in the forename and the sum, while in 
the surname 9 contributes that element of strife, energy, 
enterprise, and keenness which is associated with the 
political career and policy of this striking and successful 
personality. 

The conjunction of Jupiter = 3 and Mars = 9 in the name 
denotes a tendency to extravagance, while it also 
contributes an index of tremendous enthusiasm. In the 
combination of Mercury = 5 and the Sun = 4 in 
Gladstone's name, on the other hand, we have a more 
careful, orderly, and practical disposition indicated, the 
predominance of the number 5 giving logic and rhetoric 
in a marked degree. 

In the name of John Milton we have the Sun and Moon 
combined, showing genius, change, travelling, 
distinction; but the sum of the name is 8, which closes 
the life in tribulation and deprivation. 

The illustrious name of William Shakespeare is 
compounded of a double Mercury, which confers reason 
and logic, and yields the sum of 10 = 1, the Sun, denoting 
honours, distinction, individuality. 

His eminent contemporary, Francis Bacon, Lord 



36 



Verulam and Viscount St Albans, yields the values :- 

Francis =821566 =28 = 1 
Bacon =21225 = 12 = 3 

Sum 4 

the numbers showing individuality, distinction, ambition, 
riches, increase, expansion, pride, realisation, and 
materiality; a fortunate combination in many respects. 

There is another kabala of great interest and instruction 
which has respect to the date of birth, and brings out 
successive periods of good and evil fortune in the life, 
when interpreted by the Tarotic alphabet from which it is 
derived; but this I must deal with in another chapter. 



37 



CHAPTER IV 
VARIOUS METHODS OF KABALISM 

It has already been shown that the Hebrews, Aryans, and 
Greeks had each their methods of kabalism - that is, of 
using numbers in place of letters, and of giving to 
numbers a specific significance. It will now be my 
objective to illustrate some of the more generally 
approved methods of kabalism, so that others may apply 
their own tests and gain advantage of personal experience 
in this study. 

The Hebrew alphabet has special reference to the Tarot - 
which is obviously of Semitic origin, although it has 
received a more catholic interpretation. The method of 
applying the Tarot to the resolution of a person's 
signature is as follows: - 

The values of the letters are set down against a person's 
name and multiplied successively by the number 
answering to the converse position of the letter in the 
name. The Christian and surnames being thus dealt with, 
the totals of each name are extended and added together, 
to which also the place of the Sun at his birth is added. 
The sum of all is the key number 



38 



of the name, and this, added to the year in which the 
person is born, yields the sum of the nativity, which, 
when extended and added, gives the Tarotic signature of 
the person. Thus;- 

John Milton, 9 th December 1608 (O.S.) = 

19 th December (N.S.) Sun in 9 th sign, 28 th degree. 



J 


1+4 = 4 


M 


4 x 6 = 24 


Sign Degree 





7x3=21 


i 


1x5 = 5 




h 


8x2 = 16 


1 


3x4=12 




n 


5x1=5 


t 



n 


4x3 = 12 
7x2 = 14 
5x1=5 





sum 46 72 9 28 

Then 4+6+7+2+9+2+8 = 38 Key 

1608 Year 

Sum 1646 

Here the key number, 38 = 11, answers to the Tarotic 
Key called The Muzzled Lion, which denotes force, 
determination, mastery, vitality; while the sum of the 
nativity, 1646 =17, answers to The Star of the Magi, 
denoting hope, illumination, intuition, success. This 
interpretation is certainly apposite to the character and 
work of the epic poet. 

The key number, when thus obtained from the Sun's 
position and the enumeration of the name, 



39 



is further applied to the current year in order to obtain the 
signature of that year. Thus:- 

Key number 3 8 

Year 1674 

Sum 1712 =13 

Then 13 is the signature of the year 1674 in regard to 
John Milton, native of the 28 th degree of Sagittarius. 

The 13 th Major Key of the Tarot is The Reaping Skeleton, 
change, collapse, reaction, death; and in the year 1674 
John Milton died. 

Other examples of an equally striking nature will be 
found in my Kabalistic Astrology. 

Another method of using the Tarot Keys consists in 
adding together the year and the age a person attains in 
that year, making a sum which answers, when reduced, 
to one of the Tarot Keys. Thus Napoleon was born in 
1769. He became First Consul for life in 1801, aged 32. 
1801 + 32 = 1833 = 15, an evil portent. Typhon seated 
upon the iron cube in the Inferno. 

Emperor in 1804, aged 35. 1804 + 35 = 1839 = 21. 
The Crown = position, power, honour, distinction. 

Divorced Josephine in 1809, aged 40. 1809 + 40 = 1849 
= 22. The Blind Fool = selfishness, vanity, 
inconsequence, blindness, detachment, conspicuous folly, 
etc. 

Defeated at Waterloo, 1815, aged 46. 1815 + 46 = 1861 = 
16. The Stricken Tower = the descent of Typhon, pride of 
intellect and its consequences, humbling of the autocrat, 
overthrow, reversal, ruin, catastrophe. 



40 



It is not necessary to multiply instances. These will occur 
to every reader, and considerable interest will be found to 
attach to the calculation and interpretation of the 
numerical values of personal instances. It will hardly be 
necessary to point out that only great import attaches to 
the names and dates of great men. Where one literally 
gains a crown under the 2 1 st Key of the Tarot, another, of 
less ambitious life and smaller powers, should be well 
pleased with a commensurate fulfilment such as a rise in 
position or some passing honours. The measure of one's 
soul in the universe is an equation not easily solved, and I 
know of no means outside of direct revelation - other 
than astrology which can aid in that direction. Yet it is 
well known in what sphere of activity the powers may be 
most profitably employed, and to this end the Kabalists 
have devised a key based upon the square of three, which 
is the Table of Saturn or Fulfilment. The square of 3 is 9, 
and if we arrange the digits 1 to 9 in such form that they 
make a magic square, i.e. so that it counts to the same 
total in any direction, we shall have this figure :- 



3 5 7 
8 1 6 



41 



Here it will be seen that the sum of any three figures, in 
any direction, = 15, which number has already been 
mentioned as one of the sacred numbers, as it embodies 
the name of the Deity. 

These numbers, 1 to 9, are divided into three groups, 
namely, the spiritual, the intellectual, and the material. 
Thus, the Sun 1, Jupiter 3, and Mars 9, are the spiritual 
numbers. The Moon 7, Mercury 5, and Venus 6, are the 
mental numbers; while Saturn 8, Sun 4, and Moon 2, are 
the physical numbers. We have, therefore, a second 
arrangement of these nine figures, which now stands as 
follows :- 



1 



8 



On the base line we find the vital or solar principle, the 
astral or lunar, and the principle of mortality involved in 
their association, represented by Saturn. 

In the middle region we have the emotional principle of 
Venus and the intellectual or Mercurial principle, united 
as Hermes-Aphrodite, to form the psychic or soul 
principle proper to the human being 



42 



in process of evolution, represented by the positive lunar 
principle. 

In the superior region there are represented the principles 
of freedom, that of expansion, and that of individuality, 
denoted by Mars, Jupiter, and the Sun respectively. 

The next step is to take the date on which a person was 
born, employing always the date at noon preceding the 
hour of birth, for this is the true solar date, being 12 
hours behind the secular date. Thus, 26 th June, at 5.40 
p.m. = 26 th , while 26 th June, at 9.00 a.m. = 25 th , the 26 th 
day not being complete until noon of the 26 th . Let us 
suppose, for instance, a person born on 26 th June at 10 
a.m., in the year 1899. This gives us the date 25/6/99. 
The century figures are not employed. From this we 
derive the following table: - 

9' 

6 - 5 

2 



The first point that strikes us is the double 9; but as this is 
common to the year, it must not be taken as specially 
applicable to the person, but to the generation. He comes, 
then, of a stock making for spiritual enfranchisement, 
zealous and 



43 



enthusiastic. Next we observe the 6 as peculiar to the 
month of the birth. This gives artistic faculty and 
intellection, tending to expression in art. Next we have 
the 2 as still more closely related to the individual. It 
shows material changes, flexibility, unstable fortunes, no 
strong bias, but much sensibility. 

Lastly, the number 5 claims our attention, and this is the 
number which gives the final and personal touch to the 
direction of the character and fortunes. It shows a capable 
intellect allied (through 6) to the artistic and ornamental; 
some accomplishments. 

Next we take the sum of the figures 25699 = 31 =4, 
which shows a practical tendency to the whole character, 
a disposition to realise. 

Finally, we take the combinations represented by the 
planets. 

Moon (2), conjunction Venus (6). 
Mars (9), conjunction Mercury (5). 

The first of these shows art, music, poetry; the social 
accomplishments; refinement. The other denotes 
keenness, alertness, acumen, with some degree of 
cupidity, cunning, and opportunism. 

Having observed that the sum of the nativity is 4, it will 
be seen that any date whose figures add to the unit value 
of 4 will be fortunate to this person; while those which 
have the unit value of 8 will be unfortunate. The key to 
this effect being that the Sun (4) is opposed by Saturn 
(8), Saturn tending to destroy both Moon and Sun. For, 
on the material plane, Saturn (8) is the element of 
corruption involved by the relations of the Sun 



44 



(male) and Moon (female) elements of Nature, as here 
shown: - 



Moon Saturn Sun 



But, in its relation to the higher union of the Sun (spirit) 
and Moon (soul), it subserves the purposes of 
development and evolution, being, as it were, the 
corruptible husk whence spring the spiritual germ and its 
envelope or sheath. Wherefore, it is said: "It is sown in 
corruption; it is raised in incorruption", which has 
reference to the soul of man. For which reason we posit 
the numerical analogue :- 



Sun 

Moon 

Saturn 



It will be seen that the planetary numbers are employed 
throughout, and also the planetary interpretations as 
already set forth. In this scheme :- 

1 . stands for individuality, domination, egotism. 

2. Flexibility, change, instability, travelling. 

3 . Expansion, increase, growth, opulence, 
congestion, riches. 



45 



4. Realisation, materiality, practical results, pride, 
ostentation. 

5. Realisation, materiality, practical results, pride, 
ostentation. 

6. Intellection, learning, activity, commerce, 
language, science. 

7. Art, poetry, music, the social accomplishments, 
affection, love, sympathy. 

8. Psychic force, influence, popularity, voyages, 
adaptability, versatility, progress. 

9. Corruption, disease, death, decay, loss, hurt, 
imperfection, obstruction, privation. 

10. Freedom, energy, keenness, acumen, zeal, 
penetration, fire, fever. 

The following synoptical charts will prove of 
interest: - 



Napoleon I 
14/8/69 



Cecil Rhodes 

5/7/52 



1 



5' 



Sum, 28=1. 



Sum, 19=1. 



Conjunctions 
Sun & Mars 
Sun & Saturn 



Conjunctions 
Moon & Mercury 2 



46 



Shakespeare 

3/5/64 



Milton 
19/12/08 



r 



6 5 


— — — 


4 


2 8 


Sum, 18 = 9 


Sum, 21 =3 


Conjunctions 


Conjunctions 


Jupiter & Venus 


Sun & Mars 


Mercury & Sun 


Moon & Saturn 



The most amusing parallelism, and one that I think 
will conjure an answering smile to the lips of my 
readers, is to be found in the following: - 



Cagliostro 
19/6/43 



Sepharial 
19/3/64 



3 
6 



1 



3 
6 



1 



9 



Sum, 23 = 5 

Conjunctions 
Sun & Jupiter 
Sun & Mars 
Venus & Jupiter 



Sum, 23 = 5 

Conjunctions 
Sun & Jupiter 
Sun & Mars 
Venus & Jupiter 



47 



This clearly shows some constitutional affinity, and the 
same may be traced in the famous parallelism of St Louis 
of France and King Louis XVI, thus:- 

St Louis Louis XVI 

23/4/1215 23/8/1754 



1 



2 _ 4 2 8 4 

Sum, 15 = 6 Sum, 22 = 4 

Wherein we see that in the chart of St Louis the Sun is 
dominant and conjoined with Jupiter, while in the case of 
Louis XVI the superior Sun is in obscuration, and Saturn 
involved by a conjunction with the inferior Sun and 
Moon. In the one case we have the Christian saint who 
was anxious to give up his throne and become a monk; 
and in the other an unfortunate monarch who was 
deposed and executed, his son being consigned to prison, 
where he died. 

Now, by the numerical values of the names Louis IX and 
Louis XVI, we obtain: - 

Louis IX =3619 =19=1, Sun 

Louis XVI =36116 =17 = 8, Saturn 

clearly showing the difference of their fortunes. Those 
who would purse the subject, however, may find some 
interest in the remarkable kabala of the 



48 



two kings of France set forth in my Manual of Occultism. 

The chart of Oliver Cromwell shows a remarkable 
feature. He was born 4/5/1599, or, old style, 25 th April of 
the same year:- 



9' 



Sum, 27 = 9 

Here the zeal, fire, and sword of Mars is most 
conspicuous, as it comes twice in the year number and 
also in the sum of the nativity; the conjunctions being 
Mars and Mercury, Mercury and Sun. 

The unfortunate exile, Napoleon III, has a chart quite in 
line with his known character and destiny. He was born 
on the 29 th April 1808, of which the chart is:- 



2 8 4 



Sum, 14 = 5 
Conjunctions: Moon and Saturn 

Sun and Saturn. 



A fairly rotten basis on which to effect a restoration. 



49 



It would be possible to adduce an indefinite number of 
instances in which the character and fortunes are clearly 
denoted. I may here cite an illustrious example or two 
before concluding :- 

Queen Victoria, 23/5/19 — 



Sum, 20 = 2 

Conjunctions: Sun & Jupiter; Sun & Mars; 
Mars & Mercury. 



Horatio Nelson, 29/9/58 

9' 



Sum, 33 = 6. 

The deprivation of the right eye and right arm are shown 
by the conjunction of Moon and Saturn; 



50 



the dominant double Mars, the zeal and fighting genius 
of the great admiral; while Mars and Mercury conjoined 
point to his astuteness, acumen, and alertness of mind. 
The sum 6 gives that Venusian touch to the character 
which is in line with the best traditions of the naval 
profession. 

It should be carefully observed that the old style dates 
must be converted to the new style before dealing with 
them; and, further, that the astronomical date must be 
taken in all cases, the observation being that, when the 
birth took place in the afternoon, the date is the same as 
the secular or civil date; while if it took place in the 
morning, the astronomical date will be that of the 
previous day in the civil calendar. 

Emperor William II has a characteristic chart :- 

27/1/59 



1 



Sum, 24 = 6 

The conjunctions are those of Sun and Mars, denoting the 
spiritual zeal and tireless energy of an enthusiastic nature, 
with Moon and Mercury, showing learning, activity, 
commerce, etc. The 



51 



sum of the nativity gives just that touch of art and 
sociability which rounds off the corners of a naturally 
intense and keen nature. 

The chart of the Empire, proclaimed 18 th (morning) of 
January 1871 = 17/1/71, is very remarkable :- 

1'" 

7" 



Sum, 17 = 8 
Conjunctions: Sun & Moon. 

It shows a triple Sun and double Moon, which surely 
ought to make it shine; but the sum of the chart is 
unfortunate. 

The chart of the Union of Ireland and Great Britain does 
not show elements of stability :- 



2 nd January 1801 



r 



52 



But, if it was effected in the forenoon, then a double Sun 
presides over its destiny, to the greater advantage of the 
kingdom. 

On the whole, I think, it will be seen that the chart of the 
Square of Three, when properly dealt with, is capable of 
yielding some very striking results, both in regard to 
character and fortune. The Chinese use this chart in their 
divinations, and it is, perhaps, the oldest form of which 
we have any record. 



53 



CHAPTER V 
NUMBER, FORM, COLOUR, SOUND 

The system of numerical kabalism I am here unfolding is 
linked up with other subjects through an astrological 
radition. Once we admit the possibility that numbers may 
have an othic or symbolical value in human affairs, we 
have to seek for a key to this relationship. 

But, before doing so, it should be made clear what it is 
we are affirming. It is this: Numbers have a signification 
or symbolical value irrespective of our recognition of 
their symbolism, and (b) what we are led to recognise as 
natural causation. Let us look at these two theorems for a 
moment. If I posit the formula of the law of permutations 
(2 n - 1) I am putting up a symbol which is intended to 
signify or signal something to the mind, as, for instance, 
that the possible combinations of any three principles, 
sounds, or colours, = 2x2x2-1=7. You may or may 
not read the signal, but that does not in any way alter 
either the law expressed by the formula or the truth of 
the expression. I say, therefore, that numbers have a 
symbolical value irrespective of our recognition of their 
symbolism. I have already affirmed 



54 



the universe as a symbol. It existed, and has existed, for 
immense ages as a symbol, quite outside of our 
recognition as such. We are only now beginning to read 
its meaning. God 5 * has been signalling us from our 
nfancy. We have been ages learning the code; but we 
have it, and now we are engaged in reading the message. 

The ancients displayed their knowledge of the symbolism 
of nature when, after the Triune Deity, they placed the 
seven great powers or archangels. "The One produced the 
Three, the Three produced the seven. These ten are all 
things". 

There is no natural sequence between the number 8 and 
the things that number signifies to us. We find it 
attaching to all that is sinister and unfortunate. It is the 
chief terminal number, as we have seen, as it denotes 
death, decay, ruin, privation, loss, imperfection, and 
corruption. The idea is universal. The eighth division of 
the heavens is astrologically held to signify death and 
loss. The 8 th sign of the zodiac is Scorpio, with its 
associated symbols Serpentarius and Draconis, 
nocturnal, poisonful, and death-dealing. After the 7 th day 
of creation or unfoldment, death makes its appearance in 
the world. 

That is to say, after the universe has attained its fullness 
of evolution, it will begin to devolve, as a tree has put 
forth leaf and flower begins to die down to its root. In 
our kabalism also we find this number in evidence 
wherever there is maiming, physical or mental 



5 * The Lord Creator of our universe, not the inscrutable Absolute 
and Unmanifest 



55 



imperfection, as in the case of Nelson, injured in sight 
and limb; Milton, blind of both eyes; Louis XVI, 
decapitated; and an unfortunate host of others. I cite only 
an instance. If we can trace this covert agreement 
between the symbolism of nature and events of human 
life, or expressions of individual character, we may 
surely affirm that it exists apart from natural causation, 
for there is no causative relationship between the 
occurrence of a number in a man's name or the date of 
his birth, and any event or characteristic we may 
associate with such a number. 

A number, then, is merely a quantitative relationship, and 
a figure is that by which we symbolise it. The human 
personality is only a symbol by which a man expresses 
himself to his fellows. The physical universe is the 
personality of the universal Soul. 

Accepting numbers as symbolical, therefore, we are led 
to seek for the key to this relationship. It exists, and can 
be traced to the ascriptions of the ancient astrologers. 
They affirmed planetary action in human life, and traced 
a connection of a symbolical nature between the 
domination of a particular planet and the repetition of a 
certain number in the life of an individual. Had they been 
the ignorant instead of the most enlightened of their time, 
they would have given to numbers something more than 
a symbolical signification. As it was, they regarded them 
as part of the system by which the gods signalled us, and 
in this light also they regarded the whole cosmos, the 
sun, moon, the planets, comets, and stars, as portents 
carrying to 



56 



us not an influence in a natural or causative sense, but a 
significance in a symbolical sense. They learned to 
interpret the language of nature, and hence arose their 
systems of astrology and numerology, which latter they 
afterwards used to hide their secrets from the uninitiated. 
Hence arose kabalism. 

In this system they had a conception of the relations of 
man to the universe, calling him, in fact, the microcosm. 

They divided the microcosm into for principles, the 
imperishable soul which reflected the Trinity of Deific 
Powers, the rational soul, the animal soul, and the gross 
body. These they related to the cosmic bodies, 
conceiving them to be enveloped by an aura which 
defined their sphere of action and maintained their 
relationship, just as they held that the solar system was 
limited by a crystalline sphere. They placed them in this 
order: - 



Divine $ Soul 
Venus 
Mercury 

Rational Soul 

© 

Sun 

Moon 

D 

Animal Soul 

i 
Mars 
Material fe Body 
Saturn 



The cosmos was thus completed, the surrounding 



57 



and enfolding sphere of Jupiter, which they called 
the auric body, being thus represented — 



h 




2*- 



Now, by replacing these cosmic symbols with 
their corresponding numerical symbols, the basis of 
this system of numerology is at once apparent — 



6 

5 

4+1 

2+7 

9 

8 




58 



The total of these figures is 45 = 15 x 3, the triple name, 
in the understanding of which we are exhorted to praise. 

Having shown the basis of the planetary enumeration, 
which will better appeal to students of esoteric 
philosophy than to others, I may now proceed to a 
consideration of planetary forms. 

Observe, then, that 9 is associated with all sharp, keen, 
and pointed things, such as are made of steel and iron, 
spears, lances, scalpels, swords, knives, flints, tongues of 
flame, etc. 

8 is a symbol of involution, and represents all serpentine 
and scroll forms, the convolute and double convolute, the 
letter s, and all sibilant sounds, as in hissing. 

7 represented by crescent forms, dexter curves, and 
horned shapes. 

6 is associated with symmetrical and well-formed bodies, 
graceful curves and rounded figures, in which symmetry 
and balance are the prevailing feature. 

5 is related to sharp but disjointed forms, articulations, 
links, and jointed bodies. 

4 is connected with square bodies, rectangles, crosses, 
and horizontal lines. 

3 with triangles, tripods, and bodies having three 
divisions; also with integumenta, envelopes, and 
spheroids, ovals, and bodies capable of expansion and 
contraction. 

2 is a number associated with sinister curves, forms 
having round bases, as bowls, vases, etc., parallels and 
pairs of things, such as pillars, etc. 



59 



1 represents upright columns, monoliths, spheres, circles, 
perpendicular lines, and orifices. 

The colours associated with the planets, numbers, and 
forms, are:- 

9 Red or crimson. 

8 Black or deep brown. 

7 Silver or opalescence. 

6 Pale blue or turquoise. 

5 Indigo or dark blue. 

4 Orange or ruddy gold. 

3 Violet. 

2 Yellow or cream. 

1 White. 

The notes or sounds answering to the planetary and 
therefore also to the numerical powers, and their 
appropriate colours, are as follows:- 



c 


D 


E F 


G 


A 


B 


Sun 


Saturn 


Mercury Moon 


Mars 


Venus 


Jupiter 


4/1 


8 


5 7/2 


9 


6 


3 



Those of my readers who have a faculty for interpretation 
will do well to consult the 1623 folio of Shakespeare's 
Taming of the Shrew, in which the key to this "gamouth", 
or gamut of the spheres, is set forth to some extent under 
a glyph of names and words. I am very certain that 
Shakespeare was neither Kabalist nor Rosicrucian, but he 
employs knowledge of both faculties. The astrologer will 
observe that the poet was born with Neptune in the 
midheaven, a position of no little significance. 



60 



Some mystics consider that Uranus falls into the system 
of numerology by regarding it as the first of a new 
gamut, corresponding to the Sun, then 1+9=10 Uranus, 
while Neptune, "the superior Venus", will have to wait 
realisation until we have evolved up to 6 + 9 = 15, which 
is a deific height to which, for the moment, we need not 
aspire, contenting ourselves by "filling up the spaces in 
between". 



61 



CHAPTER VI 
NAMES, NUMBERS, AND INCIDENTS 

One of the most interesting forms of the kabalism of 
numbers is that which relates names to incidents by 
means of the numerical value of letters. 

To each letter of the alphabet a unit value is given, the 
valuation following the Hebrew code, as already given. 
These values are the multiplied by the inverse order of 
the letters, the products being finally added together. The 
unit value of the sum of these products constitutes the 
kabalistic key number. This key number being referred 
to the Tarot, an interpretation is obtained. 

Each of the Tarotic numbers has a fourfold interpretation, 
namely, a spiritual, intellectual, psychic, and physical, 
the correspondence running through from the world of 
principles to that of causes, thence to the world of effects, 
terminating in the world of ultimates, which is the 
concrete world of physical phenomena. 

The full interpretation of the Twenty-two Major Keys of 
the Tarot will be found in my Manual of Occultism, but I 
have thought it wise to give a brief rendering of the keys 
in these pages, as the reader is constantly referred to 
them. The method 



62 



followed in this kabalism will easily be understood by 
the following example :- 

Francis Bacon, which is 
8215213 21275 =39 

Francis has 7 letters, therefore the highest multiplier will 
be 7. Then 



7x8 


= 56 


6x2 


= 12 


5x1 


= 5 


4x5 


= 20 


3x2 


= 6 


2x1 


= 2 


1x3 


= 3 


Sum, =104 


= 5 



Bacon has 5 letters, and the multiplication begins with 
that number and falls to unity:- 

5x2 =10 
4x1=4 
3x2 = 6 
2x7 =14 
1x5 = 5 

Sum, = 39 =12 

The interpretation of the whole name is therefore as 

follows :- 

5. The Hierophant or Master of the Secrets = universal 

law, discipline, religion, liberty within the limits of the 

law. 

12. The Sacrifice = repression, inversion, overthrow, 

downfall, the debasement of that which is superior to the 

ends of the inferior. 

For the sum of the name we have 5 + 12 = 17, 



63 



The Star of the Magi. This denotes revelation, 
knowledge, illumination, success. "The star" presiding 
over the destiny indicates a remarkable birth, a brilliant 
career, but danger of untimely dissolution or obscuration. 
In connection with this kabala I am glad to be able to 
cite an instance of Bacon's mastery of kabalism which 
was published in the Associated Accountants' Journal 
recently. It employs an anagram, cryptogram, and a 
numerical kabala. In the 1 623 folio edition of Love 's 
Labours Lost, Act iv. Sc. i., occurs the concatenabolic 
word "honorificabilitudinitatibus", which is found to be 
the key word of the anagram: Hi ludi orbi tuiti F. 
Baconis nati, which is rendered: These plays entrusted to 
the world were created by F.Bacon. The numerical value 
of the letters follows the order of the alphabet, the letters 
I and J being identical. Then the word is enumerated 
thus:- 

HONORI F ICA 
8 14 13 14 17 9 6 9 8 1 



B 


I 


L 


I 


T 


U 


D 


I 


N 


2 


9 


11 


9 


19 


20 


4 


9 


13 


I 


T 


A 


T 


I 


B 


U 


S 




9 


19 


1 


19 


9 


2 


20 


18 





The first and last letters in each part of the anagram 
are used for the kabala, thus:- 



8 


H 


I 


9 


11 


LUD 


I 


9 


14 


ORB 


I 


9 


19 


TUIT 


I 


9 


6 


F. 






2 


BACONI 


S 


18 


13 


NAT 


I 


9 



73 + 63 =136 

This is the first key. 

64 



The second key is obtained by adding together the value 

of all the letters included between the first and last in 

each word:- 

U D R B U I T 

20,4 17,2 20,9,19 

A C O N I A T 

1, 3, 14, 13, 9, 1, 19 =151 

The last key is found in the number of letters in the word: 
Honorificabilitudinitatibus, which is 27, and also in the 
cryptogram, Hi ludi orbi tuiti F. Baconis nati, which 
also is 27. Reference to the folio under these numbers:- 

Page 136 
Line 27 
Word 151 

disregarding all words in parenthesis, brings us to the 
remarkable word (honorific, etc.) from which we set out 
in this most remarkable kabalistic enumeration. Bacon 
was a Rosicrucian, and would be familiar with the 
employment of the kabala in all its forms. Can we say the 
same of Shakespeare? If not, we must conclude on the 
evidence before us that a man of immeasurably greater 
erudition and faculty set his seal and signature upon his 
own work and committed it to the play-actor for 
production, casting his bread upon the waters in certain 
knowledge that it would return to him after many days. 

An interesting kabala may be derived from the 
use of the following values:- 

ABCDE FGHI 
J KLMNOPQR 
STUVWXYZ 

123456789 



65 



It has been used to show the affinity or connectedness 
between names used in conjunction, and those also that 
are used in substitution or become welded by association 
and the force of circumstance. By this code 



William 


= 34 =7 




Gladstone 


= 34 =7 




Napoleon 


= 38 =2 




Bonaparte 


= 38 =2 




Jack 


= 7 for John 


= 7 


Flo 


= 7 for Florence 


= 7 


Harry 


= 7 for Henry 


= 7. 



This observation is by "Numerary" = 7, whose Christian 
names are William = 7, and Henry = 7. He gives the 
following instances of associated names:- 

Crippen = 9 Le Neve = 9 

As casual observations they are useful and interesting, 
but the code does not lend itself to a symbolical 
interpretation. The Hebrew code in connection with the 
Tarot, and the planetary code in connection with 
astrology, do, on the other hand, lend themselves to a 
very consistent symbolism. Thus, it has been shown that 
the name of a warship has a numerical value which, 
when reduced within the limit of the 22 keys or letters of 
the Hebrew alphabet, answers to the ascription of the 



66 



Point of the Tarot, to which it is directly referred by that 
number. 

Among American ships there stands out in tragic relief 
the ill-fated Maine, = 41155 = 16, and Point 16 of the 
Tarot is The Stricken Tower, the citadel overthrown, 
catastrophe, etc. 

Among our British vessels there are three which bear the 
sinister names of:- 

Serpent =3528554 = 32 =5 

Viper =61852 =22 

Cobra =27221 =14 

Point 22 is Blind Folly, unforeseen danger, error. Point 
14 is The Two Urns. The vessel broken in two. 

The significance of the number 8, which is the serpentine 
or reptile number, and its associations with death and 
loss, has already been mentioned. Among vessels whose 
value is 8 there is the troopship Birkenhead = 
2122558514 = 35 = 8. 

The Royal George, another ill-fated vessel, has the value 
12, The Sacrifice, the victim, reversal, overthrow, etc. 

In the Manual of Occultism, I publish a kabala called the 
"Secret Progression". It is there applied to the solution of 
a somewhat complex problem, which was this:- 

The number of births which took place in 36 large towns 
in Great Britain in a particular week of the year were 
given from the published reports 



67 



of the Registrar-General. It was required to find the 
number which would take place in the same towns in a 
corresponding week in the ensuing year. This problem 
was successfully resolved by the kabala of the Secret 
Progression. 

This kabala, when perfected, answers four tests, viz. : the 
minor additive, the major additive, the minor differential, 
and the major differential. The whole process having 
been displayed in the instance cited, I will only, in this 
place, give an illustration of the two additive keys. This 
case concerned a lottery result submitted to me by a 
correspondent. The past five winning numbers in the first 
thousand were:- 

342, 651, 298, 542, 631, 

and I had to find the next. 

Minor Additive 

1. 342 =9 =9 

=12 =3 

2. 651 =12 =3 = 7 

= 4 =4 =14 

3. 298 =19 =1 =7 

= 3 =3 =13 

4. 542 =11 =2 =6 

= 3 =3 =12 

5. 631 =10 =1 =6 

= 3 =3 

6. ? 2 

There is a numerical series of 14, 13, 12, which requires 
that the number shall be one whose integers add up to 2, 
11, or 20. 



68 





Major Additive 






342 


= 993 




= 21 






651 








= 43 






= 949 




= 22 




= 77 


298 








= 34 






= 840 




= 12 




= 58 


542 








= 24 






= 1173 = 


= 12 




= 39 




631 








= 15 





This yields a number which, added to 63 1 , gives a sum 
the integers of which have a unit value of 3. From these 
two numerical series 14, 13, 12, - 77, 58, 39, which show 
equal intervals, we have obtained some notion of the 
constituents of the number required. The Major Additive 
Key gives us a closer inspection, but there are yet too 
many numbers answering to the requirements of the 
process. These are rapidly disposed of by the 
Differential Methods (minor and major), and in effect we 
have the number 497, which answers all the tests. Its 
integer = 2 as required by the Minor Additive process, 
thus, 4+9+7 = 20 = 2. When added to 631, the last 
winning number, the sum of 1128 = 1+1+2+8 = 12 = 3, 
as required by the Major Additive. The number of the 
winning ticket in the first thousand of the 6 th series was 
497. (B's note; Gann would often fly to Cuba where, 
among other things he would play and win the Lotteries. 
Obviously the above methods are important and need to 
be understood.) 

A correspondent sends me the following case of a 
successful divination by this kabala. The figures are 
taken from the actual results of a public lottery held at 
stated intervals. The numbers used are from 1 to 90, and 
out of these only one number is drawn. The previous five 
winning numbers were 30, 46, 77, 30, and 79. The 6 th is 
required to be known. Then, 



69 



BytJ 


xe Minor 


Diffi 


zrentia 


/ 




30 


= 3 


= 7 








46 


=10 


= 4 


=11 


= 2 


= 8 


77 


=14 


=11 


=15 


= 6 


=12 


30 


= 3 


=13 


=24 


= 6 


=16 


79 


=16 


6 


=19 


=10 




9 


10 











The intervals being equal, the number required will be 
one whose integers add to 10. 

By the Major Differential 
30 

16 7 7 
46 11 2 

31 4 4 8 

77 6 6 

47 11 2 12 

30 6 6 

49 13 4 16 

79 10 10 

? 6 6 

The intervals being equal, the number required is one 
whose difference of 79 yields a number whose integers 
add to 6. 

There is no need to proceed further, as there is only one 
number fulfilling the requirements of both tests, viz. 19, 
whose integers add to 10 and whose difference of 79 
yields 60, whose integers add to 6. Number 19 was the 
winning number. These numerical progressions appear 
to have been successfully used by that much-abused 
initiate who called himself Count Cagliostro. They have 



70 



been found to have a connection with the sequence of 
events when derived from a radical epoch. Thus the 
House of Brunswick began with George I. in 1714, 
which is therefore a radical epoch. Then by progression:- 



George I ascends 


1714 


1+7+1+4 


13 


George II ascends 


1727 


1+7+2+7 


17 


Stuart Rebellion 


1744 


I+7+4+4 


16 


George III ascends 


1760 


1+7+6+0 


14 


American Rebellion 


1774 


I+7+7+4 


19 


French Revolution 


1993 


1+7+9+3 


20 



The Grand Alliance 1813 

Prince George Regent. 

The fall of Robespierre the Incorruptible, in 1794. affords 
an epoch in the history of France. Thus:- 

Robespierre fell 1794 

I+7+9+4 21 



Napoleon fell 1815 

1+8+1+5 15 



Charles X fell 1830 

1+8+3+0 12 



Death of Due d' Orleans 1 842 
(Eldest son of Louis Philippe and heir to French throne) 



71 



Thus history reveals to us this correlated successiveness 
or law of numerical sequence which we find to have 
representation also in the lives of individuals. Those who 
diligently apply themselves to the study of numerology 
will continually find confirmation of this law, which is 
observed by nature in cosmic relations, as in the common 
expression of Kepler's law, by which we know that a 
projectile force varies inversely as the square of the 
distance, the application of which to the solar system 
gave rise to Bode's law, which is thus represented:- 



Mercury 





+ 


4 


4 


3.9 


Venus 


3 


+ 


4 


7 


7.2 


Earth 


6 


+ 


4 


10 


10 


Mars 


12 


+ 


4 


16 


15.2 


* 


24 


+ 


4 


28 




Jupiter 


48 


+ 


4 


52 


52 


Saturn 


96 


+ 


4 


100 


95.4 


Uranus 


192 


+ 


4 


196 


191.8 



these figures being an approximation to the proportional 
distance of the planets from the Sun, where R. V. Earth = 
10. The actual figures in these terms are shown in italics 
in the last column. 

If the planets had no influence on one another, and their 
motions were consequently uniform, then their distances 
would not display the proportional differences noted. 

The whole groundwork of astronomical science points to 
the regard which nature has to quantitive relations - that 
is to say, to numbers - and 



72 



consequently the study of numbers, their properties and 
combinations, serves to educate the mind to an 
anticipation of the greater problems of celestial laws by 
the operation of which the universe is what it is and the 
destiny of man such as we find it, both racial and 
individual. 

Nothing could be more convincing in regard to the 
integrity of Nature and her conservancy of the 
established relationships of her components than the 
astronomical fact that, in a system of mutual interaction - 
here everything is in a condition of unstable equilibrium 
- the ratio of the distances and motions of the planetary 
bodies remain undisturbed. Thus, while constantly 
maintaining the invariable laws of her constitution, 
Nature affords opportunity of change, development and 
evolution to every living product. 



73 



CHAPTER VII 
CHANCE EVENTS 

When we speak of a chance event, we really express our 
ignorance of the law governing the occurrence. We do 
not seriously assume to mean that Nature has not 
provided for such event, or that it had no natural 
causation. We speak of coincidences, as when an 
astrologer makes a singularly pointed prediction which 
afterwards proves to be in line with the facts. But we 
must not think that in the use of that word we have 
disposed of the scientific possibility of prediction. We 
may take comfort in it as did the old lady in the blessed 
word "Mesopotamia", but that is all that it can do for us. 
The use of the expression "coincidence" is a scientific 
statement of a fact. We assert thereby that the time and 
circumstance prescribed in the prophecy coincide with 
the event in fulfilment - that the prediction, in short, is 
true to time and nature of event. 

But many coincidences make a law. If some apples fell 
off the trees into space, some obliquely into our 
neighbour's garden, and others directly to the earth, the 
law of gravity would never have 



74 



been discovered. Ages ago things were supposed to fall 
because they were heavier than air, and a good deal of 
suffering would have been spared the pioneers of 
scientific thought had this belief been maintained. The 
fact, however, that all the apples fell in lines 
perpendicular to the tangent of the earth's circumference, 
i.e. in a straight line towards the earth's centre, and that 
one of them coincided with the thinking-box of a 
scientific man, set the whole world wondering. The 
attraction of gravitation had been discovered. Modern 
science has said much which is contrary to the Principa 
of Newton. To-day it has stumbled up against certain 
phenomena which seem to indicate that, after all, it may 
not be the attraction of gravitation that does these things, 
he facts do not answer to the theory of attraction. When it 
is seen that intermolecular either is negative to spatial 
ether it may be found convenient to look at the obverse 
side of the door, and, instead of reading "pull", the 
scientist may find "push" as an answer to his question. In 
other words, bodies may be impelled towards the earth 
by the "push" of spatial ether, instead of being drawn to 
the earth by the "pull" of the earth's mass. So much, 
then, for the argument from coincidence. Suppose that, 
instead of relegating everything we do not understand to 
the domain of chance, we endeavour to seek a law which 
shall not only include the facts but render the prediction 
of others of a similar nature possible. I will hazard a 
suggestion which may form a working basis for an 
intelligible theory of prediction. 



75 



We have already viewed the universe as the personality 
or embodiment of a Creative Power. We have seen that it 
is a symbol, and that it answers to a system of 
physiognomy by which we have learned something 
concerning the character of the Creator whose forces 
ensoul it. Let us, then, regard the universe as man. The 
Rosicrucians so regarded it, and called it Adam Kadmon; 
Swedenborg called it the Grand Man, the 
Macroprosopus. 

The astrologers have for many ages related the encircling 
zodiac to the zones or divisions of the human body. Aries 
they found to correspond to the head, Taurus to the neck, 
Gemini to the arms, and so down to the feet, which 
corresponded to Pisces. "As above, so below"; the great 
is reflected in the small. The circle of the zodiac has its 
mundane relations. An empiricism continued through 
many centuries determined the signs corresponding to 
various areas of the earth, to territories, kingdoms, cities, 
and towns. 

The method employed was that of the scientific 
experimentalist. Here is a toxin, let us see what effect it 
will have when injected. The experiment yields certain 
results, and research is made for an antidote, something 
that will neutralise the action of the poison. Or, a 
bacteriologist makes a culture of germs and studies their 
effects upon animal bodies. He also experiments on the 
culture itself to ascertain what medium favours the 
development of the germs, and what tends to sterilise the 
medium and render it fatal to the development of the 
germs. Then, by empirical means, he has two great facts 



76 



before him: (a) that certain germ cultures produce certain 
morbid conditions in animal bodies, and (b) that certain 
media neutralise the action of these germs. 

The astrologers followed the same method. They 
observed the effects following immediately upon the 
ingress of the various planets into the signs of the zodiac, 
and what happened during the stay of the planet in each 
sign. They determined the specific natures of the planets 
and their modifications by a careful and patient 
empiricism. Then the deductive method was more 
extensively employed, and, from like causes, like effects 
were anticipated. A retrospective calculation gave them 
the means of ascertaining the past effects of planetary 
positions, while a prospective calculation enabled them 
to predict what might reasonably be expected from 
identical causes in the future. 

When two clouds are electrified, one becomes negative to 
the other, they rush together, and their impact produces 
thunder; while the discharge of electricity produces 
lightning, as if the terminals of a battery were brought 
together. The lightning flash is only a big spark. 

Now, the astrologers had already discovered that Mars 
was a positive planet and a heat producer, while Saturn 
was a negative planet and a cold producer. They were 
naturally curious to observe what effects would transpire 
when these planets were in conjunction, i.e. in the same 
part of the heavens as seen from the Earth's centre. 

There were two means open to them, one being 



77 



to "wait and see", the other retrospection. By a 
combination of the known orbital motions of the two 
bodies, they were able to construct a table of the past 
conjunctions of these planets through the entire circle of 
the zodiac. Astronomy, chronology, and history 
conspired to the result, and the effects of the conjunctions 
of Mars and Saturn in the successive signs of the zodiac 
were predicable in a general manner for all time. 
Needless to say they were of an adverse, and most 
frequently of a violent, nature. 

There is a conjunction of these planets every alternate 
year, the conjunction falling in the next sign on each 
occasion; so that in 265 years it performs nine 
revolutions, and comes nearly to the same place in the 
zodiac. 

If we trace the conjunction through recent years, we find 
a singular uniformity of ill effects attending upon the 
countries ruled by the sign of conjunction. Sagittarius 
rules Spain and Italy, the opposition Gemini ruling the 
United States; Capricorn rules India, Aquarius rules 
Russia, Pisces rules Portugal, Aries rules England, 
Taurus rules Ireland, Cancer rules Scotland and Holland, 
Leo rules France, according to ancient observations. Let 
us trace some recent events :- 

1897. November, Mars and Saturn conjoined in 

Sagittarius. 

Hispano-American War, 1898. 
1899. December, conjunction in the same sign. 

King Humbert of Italy assassinated, 1900 



78 



1901. December, conjunction in Capricorn. 

Bande-Mataram Agitation, 1902. 
1903. December, conjunction in Aquarius. 

Russo-Japanese War, 1904. 
1905. December, again in Aquarius. 

Russian Revolt, 1906. 

"Red Sunday", 1906. 
1907. December, conjunction in Pisces. 

Assassination of King & Crown Prince 

of Portugal, 1908; followed by 

revolution. 
1909. December, conjunction in Aries. 

Death of King Edward VII, 1910. 

Democratic Ascendancy, 1910. 
191 1. August, conjunction in Taurus. 
1913. August, conjunction in Gemini. 

What we may expect to follow will best be defined by 
reference to the past effects of similar positions. The last 
conjunction in Taurus was 1881. This was the year of the 
Agrarian outrage in Ireland, and the murder of Burke and 
Cavendish in Phoenix Park. 

Using our greater period of 265 years, we find the 
following parallel :- 

1644. Saturn & Mars in Aries. 

+265 Marston Moor. Overthrow of the Royalists, 
1644. 



1909 Democratic Ascendancy, 1910. 
Death of King Edward, 1910. 



79 



1646 Saturn & Mars in Taurus. 
+265 The Irish Rebellion, 1646. 



1911. The Irish Protest, 1911 

1648. Saturn & Mars in Gemini 

+265 London invested by Cromwell, 1648. 

King Charles in flight. 

The House of Lords abolished, 1648. 

King Charles beheaded, 1649. 



1913 



1650. Saturn & Mars in Cancer. 
+265 Great Floods in Holland, 1650. 

Scotland invaded and reduced by 

Cromwell, 1650. 



1915 



The question now arises, what connection have planetary 
periods with numerology? In a general sense they tend to 
establish the physiognomy of Nature as a scientific study. 
If the powers that be elect to signal us by means of 
celestial phenomena, why not by numerical figures? If by 
planetary periods we may trace the periodicity of events, 
why not by numerical sequences? 

What we have to remember is that there is no such thing 
as chance in a universe controlled by law. We have to 
reduce all our observations to a statement which, if not 
conformable to any known law, is at least not in conflict 
with such laws as we know. A law should include all the 
facts. A theory should be sufficiently elastic to admit 
new observations. An 



80 



intelligent theory of the universe leaves room for variety 
of interpretation. 

The Hindus say that the period of 120 years is the sum of 
a human life. Ptolemy, who had no associations with 
Hindu thought, ascribed the periods of the planets as 
follows:- Moon 4 years, Mercury 10, Venus 8, Mars 15, 
Jupiter 12, and Saturn 30, and all these periods are 
comprehended in 120, which is their least common 
measure. 

From this we derive a very interesting kabala as follows :- 
Moon 4 years into 120 = 30 

Saturn 30 years into 120 =4 

The Moon and Saturn are opposed to one another in 
nature, and rule opposite signs. 

Mercury 10 years into 120 =12 

Jupiter 12 years into 120 =10 

Jupiter and Mercury are opposed to one another, and rule 
opposite signs. 

Venus 8 years into 120 =15 

Mars 15 years into 120 = 8 

Venus and Mars are opposed to one another, and rule 
opposite signs; the whole scheme being thus 
symbolically expressed:- 



Plan. 


Signs. 


Per. 


Per. 


Signs. 


Plan. 


* 




15 


8 


8 


9 


% 


X 


12 


10 


n 


S 


h 


VJ 


30 


4 


SB 


) 



81 



Outside of this scheme is the Sun, ruler of Leo, with a 
period = 1 year = 360 degrees, embracing 3 times 120, 
the symbol of divinity, of the Trinity in Unity. 




The period of Mars multiplied by that of Venus 

= 120 years. 

The period of Jupiter by that of Mercury =120 

years. 

The period of Saturn by that of the Moon =120 

years. 

In one day the Sun completes its apparent circuit of the 
heavens, and advances 1 degree, making 361 degrees. 
This quantity is 19 x 19, and Ptolemy gives the period of 
the Sun as 19 years. It is also to be observed that the Sun 
and Moon are conjoined in the same point of the zodiac 
every 19 years. Thus we see that there is a connection 
between periodicity and the symbolism of the heavens, 
and between symbolism and numerology. 



(B's note; Both Sepharial and Jensen have this scheme 
in their books, an explanation can be found in Raphael's 
"Manual of Astrology".) 



82 



CHAPTER VIII 

REDUCTION TO LAW 

We have now come to the point where it will be 
advisable to attempt the task of reducing these detached 
or chance experiences to law. 

In this process I shall make use of three keys already 
referred to in this work, but not yet clearly set forth. 



The first is the astral key, the second the name key, and 
the third the number key. The last two may conveniently 
be dealt with together in a separate chapter. I will take 
the astral key first as being the foundation of the system 
of symbolism I am about to use. 

The circle of 24 hours is a natural symbol corresponding 
to the zodiacal circle of the year. Every day the Sun rises, 
passes the meridian of a place, and sets upon the west 
horizon, completing a day of mean value 12 hours, the 
night being of value 24 - D. 

At the equinoxes, March 21 and September 23, the Sun 
rises at 6 and sets at 6, the day being at the mean value. 
During the summer the day is longer and in winter 
shorter than the mean, according to the latitude of the 
place. 

The circle of 24 hours is divided into day and 



83 



night. The day of 12 hours (+ or -) is divided into 12 
equal parts called planetary hours, which are each of 
equal length, but more or less than 60 minutes according 
to the season of the year. 

The planetary enumeration of the hours begins at local 
sunrise, the first hour being ruled by the planet which 
gives its name to the day, thus:- 



Sun 


rules 


Sunday 


Moon 


rules 


Monday 


Mars 


rules 


Tuesday 


Mercury 


rules 


Wednesday 


Jupiter 


rules 


Thursday 


Venus 


rules 


Friday 


Saturn 


rules 


Saturday. 



Then the Sun will rule the first hour on Sunday, the 
Moon the first hour after sunrise on Monday, and so on. 
The other planets rule in rotation, as shown in the 
following table of Planetary Hours :- 

HORARY SPECULUM 



PLANETARY 


Sunday 


Monday 


Tuesday 


Wed 


Thursday 


Friday 


Saturday 


HOURS 
















1 


Sun 


Moon 


Mars 


Mercury 


Jupiter 


Venus 


Saturn 


2 


Venus 


Saturn 


Sun 


Moon 


Mars 


Mercury 


Jupiter 


3 


Mercury 


Jupiter 


Venus 


Saturn 


Sun 


Moon 


Mars 


4 


Moon 


Mars 


Mercury 


Jupiter 


Venus 


Saturn 


Sun 


5 


Saturn 


Sun 


Moon 


Mars 


Mercury 


Jupiter 


Venus 


6 


Jupiter 


Venus 


Saturn 


Sun 


Moon 


Mars 


Mercury 


7 


Mars 


Mercury 


Jupiter 


Venus 


Saturn 


Sun 


Moon 


8 


Sun 


Moon 


Mars 


Mercury 


Jupiter 


Venus 


Saturn 


9 


Venus 


Saturn 


Sun 


Moon 


Mars 


Mercury 


Jupiter 


10 


Mercury 


Jupiter 


Venus 


Saturn 


Sun 


Moon 


Mars 


11 


Moon 


Mars 


Mercury 


Jupiter 


Venus 


Saturn 


Sun 


12 


Saturn 


Sun 


Moon 


Mars 


Mercury 


Jupiter 


Venus 



84 



The night hours begin at 13 in continuation of this table, 
which only gives the 12 diurnal hours. If the nocturnal of 
Sunday are continued on after Saturn 12, it will be found 
that they terminate at Mercury 24, and the first hour after 
sunrise on Monday, is ruled by the Moon. 

The next thing to determine is the hour of local sunrise. 
A very slipshod and wholly erroneous method in 
common use - through the agency of a would-be 
Kabalist, who should be astronomer also but is not - 
consists in adding the longitude west of Greenwich to the 
time of sunrise at Greenwich. This would be a correct 
procedure for the time of the Sun's meridian passage if 
applied to the right ascension of the Sun or the time of its 
apparent transit at Greenwich; but, in regard to sunrise, it 
leaves out of consideration the important factor of 
ascensional difference due to latitude of the place. 

The calculation is not difficult, so that I do not hesitate to 
inflict it upon my readers, especially as they are 
presumed to have a penchant for figures:- 

Formula. To the log. tan. of the latitude of the place, 
add the log. tan. of the Sun's declination = the log. sine 
of the Sun's ascensional difference under the said 
latitude. 

Add this ascensional difference to 90 degrees when the 
Sun's declination is south, and subtract it when the 
declination is north. Multiply the result by 4, and call the 
degrees minutes, and the minutes call seconds. The result 
will be the time before noon at which sunrise occurred 
locally. There is, of course, a small second difference due 
to the 



85 



variation of declination, but this is quite inconsiderable if 
the declination be taken for 6 a.m. every day. 

Example. Time of sunrise, 30 th April 1 9 1 1 , at 
Greenwich. Sun's declination from Ephemeris at 

6 a.m. 14 deg 26 min. N 

Lat. of Greenwich 51 deg 28 min. N 

Then tan. log. 14d 26m 9.41057 

+ tan.log. 5 Id 28m 0.09888 

9.50945 

=sine 18d 51m 
+ 90d 0m 



108d51m 
Multiply by 4 = 43 5m 24s = 7h 1 5m 24s 

Take from 12h 0m 0s 



Mean time of sunrise 4 44 36 

But, on reference to the almanac, it will be seen that the 
Sun is before the clock by 2 m 44 s ,i.e. the Sun passed the 
meridian nearly 3 minutes before the clock indicated 
noon. Therefore, from 

4 44 36 
Take 2 44 



4 41 52 
remains the Greenwich mean time of sunrise. 

Astronomers further correct this quantity by aberration, 
parallax, and nutation; but with these we are not 
concerned in the present instance. 

Now, let us find sunrise at Liverpool on the same 



86 



day, the latitude of the place being 53d 25m, and the 
declination of Sun as before. 

Log. tan. 53d 25m 0.12947 

Log. tan 14d26m 9.41057 



Log. sine 20d 17m 
To 90d 0m 

add 20d 17m 



110dl7m 



9.54004 



Multiply by 4 



441 m 8 s 



T 21 m 8 s 



We have already found that the ascensional difference for 
London was on 30 th April, 18d 51m, and for Liverpool it 
is 20d 17m. The difference of Id 26m multiplied by 4 
gives 5 m 44 s as the difference due to latitude only, so 
that, if the place were in the same meridian as London, 
the Sun would rise on it nearly 6 m earlier than London. 
But Liverpool is 12 m 16 s W. of London, and thus we 
have:- 

+ 12 m 16 s 
5 44 



+ 6 32 
to be added to the Greenwich mean time of sunrise, 
which is found, in its corrected value given in the 
almanac, to be = 4.37 a.m. 



Then to:- 



Sunrise, London 4 

Add Liverpool equation 



37 m a.m. 

7 



Time Liverpool Sunrise 4 44 



87 



which is a very different thing from merely adding the 
W.long. to the time of Greenwich sunrise, as given by the 
author of The Mysteries of Sound and Number, thus: 

By the almanac 4 h 37 m a.m 

Liverpool West 12 

4 49 

It naturally follows that a system which requires that the 
time of an event be known within 4 mins. must in these 
circumstances prove an egregious failure, and require any 
amount of juggling with the phonetic values in order to 
accommodate itself (after the event) to the facts. 

The view of the Kabalist is that the divisions of time 
should be natural and not artificial, and that the phonetic 
values should be constant. 

We have found the beginning of our natural day at 
sunrise. Let us now find the length of the day 



The time of sunrise 
Taken from 


4 h 
12 


39 m 



52 s 



Multiply by 2 


7 


20 


8 


= Length of day 


14 


40 


16 



An easy rule is to multiply the time of sunrise by 2, and it 
will give the length of the night, which, taken from 24 
hours, gives the length of the day, which is double the 
time of sunset. Thus:- 



88 



Sunrise at 


4 hh 


39 m 


52 s 

2 


Length of night 
From 


9 
24 


19 



44 



Length of day 


14 


40 


16 



And 7 h 20 m 8 s , the time of sunset, x2 = 14 h 40 m 16 s , as 
before. 

Divide the length of day by 12 to obtain the duration of 
each planetary hour of the day. As 

14 h 40 m 16 s / 12 = l h 13 m 21.33 s 
This quantity, being added successively to the time of 
sunrise, will give the beginning of the 12 planetary hours. 
Thus for the given day we have:- 

BEGINNINGS OF HOURS 
Sunday, 30 April 1911 



1 


Sun 


04:39:52 


a.m. 


8 


Sun 


01:13:21 


p.m 


2 


Venus 


05:53:13 


a.m. 


9 


Venus 


02:26:42 


p.m 


3 


Mercury 


07:06:34 


a.m. 


10 


Mercury 


03:40:03 


p.m 


4 


Moon 


08:19:56 


a.m. 


11 


Moon 


04:53:25 


p.m 


5 


Saturn 


09:33:17 


a.m. 


12 


Saturn 


06:06:46 


p.m 


6 


Jupiter 


10:46:38 


a.m. 


13 


Jupiter 


07:20:08 


p.m 


7 


Mars 


12:00:00 


a.m. 











It will be seen that there are 6 planetary hours from 
sunrise to noon, and 6 from noon to sunset. The former 
are positive, and the latter negative. In the present 
demonstration, we are concerned with the latter part of 
the day during the negative hours. 

The planetary numbers have already been given, and on 
the Sunday in question they rule as follows 



89 







SUNDAY 






vlornii 


!g 




Afternoon 


Sun 


1 


positive 


Mars 


5 Negative 


Venus 


6 


positive 


Sun 


4 Negative 


Mercury 


5 


positive 


Venus 


3 Negative 


Moon 


7 


positive 


Mercury 


9 Negative 


Saturn 


8 


positive 


Moon 


2 Negative 


Jupiter 


3 


positive 


Saturn 


1 Negative 



This means that during the afternoon of Sunday the first 
hour is ruled by Mars, whose number is 9, but as it is a 
negative hour it is represented by 5, which is the 
negative of 9. Thus:- 





+ 


- 




Sun 


1 


4 


5 


Moon 


7 


2 


9 


Saturn 


8 


1 


9 


Jupiter 


3 


6 


9 


Mars 


9 


5 


5 


Venus 


6 


3 


9 


Mercury 


5 


9 


5 



We thus see that the positive and negative values of all 
the planets add to a sum whose unit value is 5 or 9, 
whence we have the kabalistic value 5+9 = 14, i.e. the 
two aspects (male & female, positive & negative) of the 
Sevenfold Powers. 

SUBDIVISIONS 

We have obtained the length of the natural day, and also 
that of the planetary hours. We now have to subdivide 
the hour into 7 equal parts as nearly as may be, giving to 
each part a successional rule, and therefore a numerical 
value. 



90 



It will then be seen that each section yields an event 
which is in harmony with its nature. 

For this purpose take the negative hours in the afternoon 
of Tuesday, the 26 th April 1910. The time from noon to 
sunset is 7 h ll m . Divide this by 6 and obtain l h ll m 50 s 
for the length of each planetary hour of the afternoon. 

This quantity has now to be divided by 7 in order to 
obtain the planetary subdivision of the hour. This 
amounts to 10 m 16 s nearly. 

We are now able to construct a table as follows :- 
HOURS NEGATIVE 



(Commencement of hours on 


Tuesday 26 m 






April 1910). 










Mars 1. 11.50p.m 










Sun 2 23.40 p.m. 










Venus 3. 35.30p.m. 










Mercury 4. 47.20 p.m 










Tuesday, 26 th April 1910. 










Sunset 7 h 11 m Hor. l h ll m 50 


s . Div. 


10 m 16 s 


# 




H:M:S H:M:S 




H:M:S 




H:M:S 


Mars 01:11:50 Sun 02:23:40 


Venus 


03:35:30 


Mercury 


04:47:20 


Sun 01:22:06 Venus 02:33:56 


Mercury 


03:45:46 


Moon 


04:57:36 


Venus 01:32:22 Mercury 02:44:12 


Moon 


03:56:02 


Saturn 


05:07:52 


Mercury 01:42:38 Moon 02:54:28 


Saturn 


04:06:18 


Jupiter 


05:18:08 


Moon 01:52:54 Saturn 03:04:44 


Jupiter 


04:16:34 


Mars 


05:28:24 


Saturn 02:03:10 Jupiter 03:15:00 


Mars 


04:26:50 


Sun 


05:38:40 


Jupiter 02:13:26 Mars 03:25:16 


Sun 


04:37:06 


Venus 


05:48:58 


Hor Mars Hor Sun 


Hor 


Venus 


Hor 


Mercury 



In bringing this matter of numerical values to the test, we 
must have recourse to names. On the above date there 
was racing at Newmarket, 



91 



and the following were the names of the winners of the 
several races :- 

2:00 Boabdil. 

2:30 Brillante 

3:00 Castellane. 

3:30 Ulster King. 

4:00 Paltry. 

4:30 Grain. 

5:00 Glacier. 
The period from 1:53 to 2:03 p.m. is ruled by the Moon. 
The hour being negative, we consult the sign in which 
the Moon is placed on this day, and find by the almanac 
that it is Scorpio, ruled by Mars, whose number is 9. 

Boabdil = 261243 =19 =9. 
The period from 2:24 to 2:34 is ruled by the Sun, whose 
negative number is 8. 

Brillante = 223 154 =17 =8. 
The period from 2:54 to 3:05 is ruled by the Moon in 
Scorpio = 9, or negative 5. 

Castellane = 21641315 =23 =5. 
The period from 3:25 to 3:35 is ruled by Mars, positive 9. 

Ulster King = 236412252 = 27 =9. 
The period from 3:56 to 4:06 is ruled by Moon, negative 
2. 

Paltry =823421 =20 =2. 
The period from 4:27 to 4:37 is ruled by Mars. 

Grain = 2215 =10 = 1. 

This is a first exception. The period from 4:58 to 5:08 is 
ruled by the Moon in Scorpio = 9, or negative 5. 

Glacier = 23 162 =14 =5. 
But this may be thought fortuitous or possibly 



92 



forced. Let us therefore look at the next day, 27 th April, 
when the winners were as follows:- 



2:00 


Betsy Jane 


Period Mars 


2:30 


Desespoir 


Period Moon 


3:10 


Neil Gow 


Period Sun 


3:45 


Lady Frivoles 


Period Saturn 


4:15 


Orne 


Period Sun 


4:45 


Acunha 


Period Moon. 



The Moon was now in Sag = Jupiter = 3 positive, 6 
negative. 

Betsy Jane = 21461315 = 23 = 5, won in negative 

Mars 5. 

Desespoir = 41616822 = 30 = 3, won in Moon 

period with Moon in Jupiter's sign = 3. 

Neil Gow = 51322 = 13 = 4, won in period of Sun 

negative. 

Lady Frivoles = 314182637 = 35 = 8, won in 

period of Saturn. 

Orne = 2251 = 10= 1, won in period of Sun. 

Acunha = 12651 = 15 = 6, won in period of Moon 

in 3 or negative 6. 

It is not my purpose in this place to formulate a racing 
system, but merely to demonstrate the value of sounds, 
their relationship to numbers, and the connection of both 
with symbolical planetary periods, which links the whole 
matter together into a single concept, namely: - 

The circle = infinity or zero, since all circles are equal to 
one another and converge in the point in the centre. 

We can now pass on to a consideration of other kabalas. 



93 



CHAPTER IX 

NUMBER AND AUTOMATISM 

There is a great variety of kabalas in existence; but most 
of them have fallen into disuse, owing, no doubt, to the 
general disposition to rely wholly upon the rational 
faculty, or what is called the common-sense judgement of 
things. This doubtless is all that is left to the average 
man, since the intuition has been dulled by constant 
dependence on external phenomena, and the instinctive 
or automatic faculty has been left behind in the process 
of evolution. But, as we have seen in the course of our 
demonstration, the soul of man (the luni-solar principle) 
gravitates between the animal and the divine, between 
instinct and intuition. The automatic faculty at play in the 
domain of sense is called instinct, while its operation in 
the domain of the intellect are recognised as intuition. 
Divination, which depends so largely upon this faculty, is 
universally associated with the symbolism of numbers. 

One such system may here be cited. Everybody knows 
the magic formula called Abracadabra, which some 
derive from the limitless or eternal, 



94 



but which I think may be with greater reason defined as 
the creative word. The form it takes is that of an inverted 
triangle, a rectangle, or a double equilateral. 

The two forms are here displayed:- 



B 


R 


A 


C 


A 


D 


A 


B 


R 


A 


A 


B 


R 


A 


C 


A 


D 


A 


B 


R 


A 


A 


B 


R 


A 


C 


A 


D 


A 


B 


R 




B 


R 


A 


C 


A 


D 


A 


B 


R 






A 


B 


R 


A 


C 


A 


D 


A 


B 






R 


A 


C 


A 


D 


A 


B 










A 


B 
A 


R 
B 
A 


A 
R 
B 
A 


C 
A 
R 
B 
A 


A 
C 
A 
R 
B 
A 


D 
A 
C 
A 
R 
B 


A 
D 
A 
C 
A 
R 






R 


A 

A 
A 


C 
C 

C 
C 
C 


A 
A 
A 
A 
A 
A 


D 
D 

D 
D 
D 


A 

A 
A 


B 






















A 


B 




B 


R 


A 


C 


A 


D 


A 


B 


R 






















A 


A 


B 


R 


A 


C 


A 


D 


A 


B 


R 


A 



From this paradigm the numerologists invented a scheme 
of divination which takes this form:- 

A question being put in so many words as is convenient 
for its expression, the number of the words is counted 
and set down; and this figure is followed by the number 
of letters in each of the words. 

The figures in this line are then successively added 
together, the first with the second, the second with the 
third, the third with the fourth, and so on until they have 
been paired and added, the one to the other. The sum, 
abated by 9 whenever it exceeds that amount, is set 
down beneath, so as to form a second line of figures. 
These are then treated in the same manner, by successive 
pairing and addition, and a third line 



95 



is produced. Each successive line being one figure less 
than the one above it, it follows that the process 
eventually brings out a single figure. It is this figure that 
is dealt with in the divination. The number is referred to 
its planetary equivalent and the interpretation made 
thence in accord with the nature of the question. 

A single illustration will doubtless suffice. A person asks 
: "Shall I gain my desire"? There are 5 words in this 
sentence, so the figure 5 is set down. "Shall" contains 5 
letters, "I" 1, "gain" 4, "my" 2, "desire" 6. Then the first 
line will stand thus : 551426, and the kabala, when 
completed, will be as follows :- 

5 5 14 2 6 

16 5 6 8 

7 2 2 5 

9 4 7 

4 2 

6 

Here the resultant figure is 6, which is the number of 
Venus, and in reference to the question it reads:- "There 
will be a peaceful and satisfactory conclusion resulting in 
pleasure". 

Had the number 8 been the resultant, it would import 
delay or probable disappointment, for 8 is the number of 
Saturn = privation. 

Had 3 resulted, then Jupiter would augur acquisition, and 
that readily; for Jupiter denotes increase, acquisition, 
expansion, good fortune. 

6 brings peaceful solutions and pleasures; 



96 



5 travelling, activity, worry, and anxiety, restlessness, 
etc.; 2 or 7 bring changes, uncertainty and vacillation. 
But 7 is powerful with the influence of women or the 
public, and 2 shows a faint heart and a change of 
intention or desire. As 7 is the number of "completion" 
and the Moon denotes women, we may understand the 
cryptic utterance: 

"The stone that the builders rejected, the same shall 
become the head of the corner" (corner- stone or capital), 
an interpretation that should gratify the vanity of those 
who clamour for women's rights, but will be realised 
only by those who wisely recognise and use their 
privileges. 

A variant of this kabala is as follows:- 
The resultant digit being an even number, the triangle is 
searched along the right side and the top line for three 
other even numbers, which are extracted in order as they 
occur, But if the resultant be odd, then the left side and 
tops are searched for three other odd numbers. 

These, when found, are set down together with the 
resultant first obtained, and the whole are then added 
together. The sum is then divided by 9, and the remainder 
is the number from which the augury is taken. 

Thus, in the example given, the resultant being 9, an odd 
number, the left side of the triangle of figures yields three 
others, viz.: 771, all being odd. Then 9+7+7+1 = 24 = 6, 
from which the augury would be taken and an 
interpretation made in terms of Venus in relation to the 
question. 



97 



Here it should be remarked that the divination is to be 
effected always by a method which has previously been 
determined upon, for the numbers signify nothing of 
themselves. They gain their significance by the 
associations we attach to them in our thought, and in this 
sense only are they symbolical, i.e. by association or by 
employment. If, therefore, Nature employs a numerical 
symbolism, we may conformably employ certain 
numbers as symbols, and indeed all numbers, by 
reference to their components or their unit values. The 
method employed is therefore of importance, for it 
would be unreasonable to use one method for deriving 
our symbol, and another for its interpretation. Decide, 
therefore, what method of divination you intend to 
employ, and use that method both in enumeration and 
interpretation of your question. 

Nature uses a symbolism which is wholly unintelligible 
to the great majority of people, and this fact appears to 
sustain the argument that numbers have a significance 
apart from our recognition of it. This, at first sight, may 
appear contradictory to what I have just said regarding 
the significance of numbers; but I spoke of them as 
symbols, and they appear as symbols only when we have 
learned their true significance and begin to employ them 
as expressions of quantitive relations. Nature exists quite 
apart from our individual consciousness, as natural 
history will inform us, but we cannot exist as individuals 
apart from the consciousness of Nature. Consequently, 
nothing of our thought or experience is outside of natural 
expression. It is, therefore, 



98 



entirely symbolical, and our best divinations are those 
which are derived from a strict regard to the language 
and figuring of Nature. 

When I said that Nature uses a symbolism, and that it has 
consciousness of us as individuals, I regarded it 
mediately as the expression of Divine Intelligence. It is in 
reality the Deity, who is conscious in and through 
Nature, as man is conscious in and through his body. 

The celestial motions are part of the symbolism we are 
considering; each of the planets is a symbol of some 
special focal centre of deific force. The Moons are 
symbols, and so are comets. The Sun has been used by us 
as a symbol of the deific Power for ages. It is probably so 
used throughout the humanities of all its satellites. It is 
the first and greatest revelation of God to man. 

By Saturn and Jupiter and all of the bodies of the system 
exist and perform their functions, and symbolise the 
different aspects and quantities of the One, altogether 
apart from the consciousness and understanding of the 
average clodpole. Therefore, we say Nature is a symbol, 
and that it attains signification for us only when we 
understand it. Its language being understood, we may 
employ it, interpreting its dark passages by aid of the few 
sentences of which we are sure. 

If cosmos had no laws, if the planets moved in mixed 
orbits as they listed and at varying velocities irrespective 
of their mutual distances, their numbers would cease to 
have any basis or significance and 2x2 = 9 would be as 
true as that 2 + 2 = 4. It has 



99 



been suggested that probably the decimal system of 
enumeration was universally adopted because when a 
man had counted up to ten he had no more "digits" on 
which to count. This may be true, probably is; but it does 
not solve for us the problem as to why man had ten 
digits, or, although a freak may be furnished with 
twelve, Nature gets back to the decimal basis as speedily 
as possible, as if anxious to correct an error. And it is 
said, too, that there cannot be more than ten ciphers, 
because unity, 1, and zero, 0, begin and end the 
expression of the Deity; and when combined they are phi, 
the source of all things and the end of all, the alpha and 
omega, united as the symbol of the palingenesis. But so 
also do all the other pairs, as 2 and 8 = 10, 3 and 7 = 10, 
4 and 6 = 10, for 1 and 9 are the same as 1 and 0. In 
effect, we find only 5 is left behind, unpaired and 
unrelated; and 5 is the symbol of Mercury, the intelligent 
principle in man which stands in the midst of the 
universe and cognises that which is above and that 
which is below. The secret of numbers is open to every 
one who uses his five senses, and reflects upon the 
quantitive relations of the things sensed. 

We are as much subject to the laws of sense as to those of 
thought. Our enumeration is no more arbitrary than our 
perceptions of colour or sound. Certain combinations of 
colour and of sound satisfy the sense, while others, on the 
contrary, offend it. But what of the barbarian standards? 
Do they not point the fact that ours is a cultivated sense? 
They do; and by this culture 



100 



we intend nothing but the bringing of our own senses into 
harmonious relations with a higher standard of 
perception - that is to say, into close relations with the 
soul of things. If we have finer perceptions of harmony, 
it is because we have finer mental perceptions of the 
harmonies of Nature. Before figures were invented to 
express quantities, there was a mental perception of 
quantitive relations. The idea of Venus de Milo existed in 
the sculptor's mind before it received material expression 
in stone. The idea will persist after the figure has 
perished by the hand of Time. Number, as a universal 
concept, is variously expressed by figures of different 
forms. These forms are inconstant, as also are those by 
which we express sound, but number and sound as 
mental phenomena persist after we have ceased to see 
and hear. 



101 



CHAPTER X 
THOUGHT-READING BY NUMBERS 

What I have previously said in regard to the geometrical 
relations of thought will have prepared the reader for the 
following illustration of the process of thought-reading 
by means of numbers. Thought is of two orders, 
conscious thought elaborated by the functions of the 
attentive mind, and unconscious, or what is now called 
subconscious, thought. This latter function of the mind is 
abundantly illustrated by the phenomena of spontaneous 
telepathy. At any moment a person's mind is negative to 
some others and positive to the rest. Every brain, while 
functioning, creates definite vibrations or waves in the 
etheric ambient. 

These waves impinge upon the brains of others, and, if in 
syntonic relations with them, will cause an apperception 
of personality, so that the individuals affected will 
immediately create a mental image of the person whose 
thought is projected, and whose presence is shortly made 
apparent to the senses. There is then the proverbial "talk 
of angels". Yet it will be found upon inquiry not only that 
the transmitter is unconscious of any 



102 



efforts towards self-projection, but wholly oblivious of 
the vicinity of the percipient. The conclusion based upon 
a close study of this familiar but little understood 
phenomena, is that the subconscious, or subliminal, mind 
of the projector is not only aware of the presence of other 
minds, but is capable of projecting itself into immediate 
relations with them. This projection is received by the 
percipient as a subconscious impression which presently 




THE WORLD SOUL 



wells up in the region of the attentive mind in such way 
as to create a subject of thought. Extremely sensitive 
persons not only have an apperception of a presence, but 
also a vision. By the same or similar functioning of the 
subconscious mind, we are made aware that certain 
people are inimical to our interests. We smother the 
impression in deference to our good taste, or "the 
proprieties", admit them to our confidence, and 
everlastingly regret the fact that we did not act upon our 
"first 



103 



impressions". There is, as I have said in a former chapter, 
a part of us which is in touch with the world- soul, and 
capable of sharing in the universal experiences of that 
universal principle. 

The world- soul is again in its turn linked to the universal 
soul. The world-soul is the planetary or earth 
consciousness; the universal consciousness is centred in 
the solar sphere, which is the coordinating centre of the 
system, spiritually, psychically, and physically. That is 
why the seers and prophets call the Lord of the Universe 
the "Day Star" and the "Sun of Righteousness". 

But to get back to our position. The geometrical relations 
of thought are such that every idea is capable of 
numerical expression, and this fact appears to have been 
known to the Orientals, for it was from one of them that I 
had first illustration of it. It was the occasion of a 
meeting of friends interested in spiritual and psychic 
matters. I was invited by a Swami to take in hand or 
think of any object I might select. I immediately 
complied, taking special precautions that sight of the 
object was not obtained by him. In his absence from my 
room I took a postage-stamp, of value one anna, and 
placed it in a rather large box, holding this latter in my 
hand. I then recalled the Swami and bent my thought 
upon the stamp within the box. The Swami asked me to 
give him a number, the first that came into my mind, and 
I gave him one. He then immediately described the 
subject of my thought. It was of "square" form, but 
longer than 



104 



it was broad; very thin, it had two colours on one side 
only, its edges were like a saw, and the value of it was 
one anna. Needless to say, I was much impressed by the 
experiment, but said at once that the number asked for 
was only a blind, and that it was a feat of direct thought- 
reading without contact. The event proved that I was 
quite wrong, for he presently described things spoken 
about in letters as yet unopened, and further made 
prediction of certain events which afterwards transpired. 
On each occasion he required that I should give him a 
number. Finally, he convinced me most forcibly by 
revealing the process to me so that I was myself able to 
repeat the experiments quite successfully, and have since 
used the method on many occasions for describing 
people's thoughts, answering questions, predicting 
events, and finding lost things. It is a feat for which one 
may claim no merit, being wholly dependant on the 
working of the subconscious mind in the consultant 
himself. The argument is that the subliminal mind knows 
that concerning which the supraliminal mind exercises 
itself, but it lacks the means, while the attentive mind is 
functioning, of impressing itself. In the use of numbers, 
however, it finds an automatic means of expression. 

It is my intention to give the reader a partial knowledge 
of the process, sufficient, in fact, to enable him to make 
experiment of the numerical relations of thought. I 
remember that one of the earliest opportunities I had of 
testing my proficiency in this method was when, on a 



105 



certain evening, I was suddenly surprised to see my vis- 
a-vis at the dinner-table put her hand to her throat with an 
expression of alarm. I gave her instant attention, and was 
relieved in some measure when she exclaimed: "I have 
lost my coral necklace, with all my keepsake pendants on 
it"! I immediately undertook to trace the lost article, and 
having got a number from her, I announced that the 
article would be found near an iron railing or partition, 
and close to where a horse was standing. So much I 
learned from the number given to me. What followed 
was merely diplomatic resource, or, as a dramatic artist 
would say, "business". I knew that the lady had just been 
walking by the riverside, and I also knew that kine and 
horses were at grass in the fields beyond the hawthorn 
hedge which ran along one side of the tow-path. I did 
not, however, recollect any iron gate or railing. The 
suggestion of a hunt was quickly followed up, and I led 
the way, keeping an eye open in the gathering gloom for 
indications of some iron. We had gone about half a mile 
when the whinny of a horse was heard, and I laughingly 
remarked that that was half the necklace. Coming up to 
the place where the horse stood, we found to our 
immense satisfaction that its nose was resting on a length 
of iron railing which had been introduced to repair a gap 
in the hedge. We stopped at that, and on striking a light, 
found the broken necklace on the towpath where, in 
another step, we should have crushed it under foot. This 
was the beginning of a career of usefulness in 
numerology, which has now been 



106 



under cultivation for many years. We never talk of things 
being lost nowadays. We say they are "unnumbered", or 
that "the ticket has come unstuck". We find them by the 
aid of numbers. Other incidents connected with the 
power of thought- reading by numbers will be found in 
my Manual of Occultism. And now, to dispense with the 
undesirable personal element, let us see how much of the 
method can be discreetly communicated. 

On a question arising in the mind of a nature which 
cannot be answered by reference to the ordinary 
channels or means of information, let 9 numbers be set 
down spontaneously as they occur, and to these let there 
be added always the figure 3, whether that figure has 
been previously employed or not. Make a sum of the 1 
figures, and observe the nature of the figures which are 
represented in the sum. For the interpretation of the 
numbers I must refer the reader to succeeding chapters, 
as the matter is of some length. 

The process employed is based upon the occult fact that, 
if the mind is concerned about a any matter, the figures 
that are then automatically delivered by the mind bear a 
direct relationship to the nature of the thought, and in 
themselves afford the means of a solution. An instance of 
this may be cited from the Scripture, which the Kabalists 
have revealed. In the prophecy of Jacob concerning the 
future of his sons, Judah is referred to as a lion's whelp. 
"The sceptre shall not depart from Judah, nor the law- 
giver from between his feet, until Shiloh shall come". 
The sceptre is Regulus the law-giver is Cepheus, 



107 



and Shiloh or Shuleh is Cor Scorpio, whose rising is the 
signal for Regulus to depart from the midheaven with its 
opposition point of Cepheus from the nadir. The last two 
words of this sentence are given below in Hebrew with 
their numerical values. 



*» 


Iod 


= 10 


D 


Mem 


= 40 


n 


Beth 


= 2 


D 


Shin 


= 300 


N 


Aleph 


= 1 


^ 


Iod 


= 10 


m 


Shin 


= 300 


n 


Heth 


8 


i 


Iod 


= 10 









b 


Lamed 


= 30 




Total 


- 358 


n 


He 


= 5 









Total = 358 



From this we learn that the spontaneous utterance of the 
dying patriarch, "Shiloh shall come"! contained the 
numerical revelation of the Messiah. 

When, therefore, we speak of thought-reading by 
numbers, we do not refer to the conscious thought of the 
transmitter, nor to any special psychic faculty in the 
percipient, but to the subconscious thought, or 
knowledge rather, of the transmitter, whose external or 
attentive mind is seeking a solution; and to the system of 
numerology which enables that solution to be found 
either by oneself or another. 

In the East, but more especially in India, the science of 
numbers has been continuously 



108 



studied, not only with a view to the higher mathematics 
but for purposes of cryptic expression and divination. 

Thus, they number the years according to a certain 
sequence, from 1 to 60. The year of the cycle is then 
multiplied by 2. From the product 3 is subtracted. The 
result is then divided by 7, and the remainder will 
indicate the crop conditions of the year according to the 
following sequence :- 

The remainder being 

1 . Dearness and scarcity. 

2. Plentitude and cheapness. 

3. Average yield and steadiness. 

4. Dearness and poverty. 

5. Plenty and cheap. 

6. Adequate at steady value. 
0. Scarcity and famine prices. 

From this we learn that there is an expectancy of similar 
conditions every 4 th year, with an intervening period of 
famine every 7 th year. (B's note; The above is VERY 
interesting!) 

They have also a numerical system of Arudha by which 
lost things are found. The number of the asterism 
occupied by the Moon, the age of the Moon and quarter 
are added together, and from these, 3 is subtracted. The 
sum is multiplied by 8 and divided by 7, if 

1 remains, the article is underground. 

2. It is in a pot or kumbha. 

3. The article is in water. 

4. In the open air. 

5. In a shell or husk. 

6. In manure or soil. 
7.1n ashes. 



109 



I have not made experiment of this method, as the losing 
habit is not upon me, and the Victorian code conduces to 
honesty among menials; but it appears to me that the 
possibilities in regard to the whereabouts of a lost article 
are by no means exhausted in this category of seven 
places. 

I have, however, seen hidden things exactly located by 
means of a system of sulyana based upon similar factors, 
but it was confined to the house in which the divination 
was made. 



110 



CHAPTER XI 
THE SIGNIFICANCE OF NUMBERS 

In the preceding chapter I have given the rule for the 
automatic resolution of questions by means of numbers. 
The mind having been fixed upon the question to be 
asked or the matter upon which information is sought, 
nine numbers are set down, to which 3 is added, and the 
total is then referred to the nature of the question. 

EXAMPLE 

What am I thinking of ? 
985627142 = 44 
add 3 

47 
The answer: "You are thinking of a value, measure, or 
weight, a matter of proportion, and of yourself in certain 
relations". 

THINGS THOUGHT OF 



The sum of 10 numbers being: 

l.You think of position, of elevation, things above you, a 
master or progenitor, a pinnacle, head, or prominence, 
and its levelling or downfall. 



Ill 



2. Of distance, things remote, a journey or a foreign 
land. 

3. You think of a personal event, an ailment, probably a 
fever, heat, or anger. 

4. Of a domestic affair. The family circle. Love and 
pleasure; of the heart, or something greatly desired. 

5. Of marriage; an understanding or agreement; of things 
in union or harmony. 

6. Of news, things related, a brother, means of 
communication, journeys. 

7. Of a house, of things underground, of land or water in 
expanse, of the ocean, change, or removal. 

8. Of antique things or foreign products, a foreign 
country, of the Orient. 

9. Of a death or loss, of defective contracts, of means of 
restitution. 

10. Of an unfortunate alliance, troublesome agreement, or 

disputation. 
1 1. Of the value of properly, a mine, or matter relating to 

real estate. 
12. Of pleasant surroundings, some festivity, gala, 

convivial meeting, fine clothes and personal comforts. 
13. Of money, speculative matters, gain. 
14. Of a short journey, a cruise, or matters connected with 

messages across the water; a female relation. 
15. Of a bereavement or death; funereal vestments, 

mourning; a loss or misfortune. 
16. Of a fortunate and happy alliance, a wife, a good 

understanding or agreement. 



112 



17. Of a servant; or nearer to yourself, of some 

discomfort, disease, or ailment. 
18. Of a pleasant journey; a thing of gold; love, 

domesticity, or joy; a brother, or a message desired. 
19. Of some restraint, confinement, imprisonment, 

seclusion; a child. 
20. Of a journey or letter; something carried; yourself in 

communication with another; a roadway. 
21. Of gain, money, some financial advantage, things in 

possession, of something white and silvery, a rupee. 
22. Of an unfortunate marriage or a sick partner, a bad 

contract, difficulties, an enemy or rival. 
23. Of good living, rich clothes, plentiful food, faithful 

servants, good health, creature comforts, position. 
24. Of uncertain position; a family dispute; children; an 

unfortunate venture; illicit love affairs. 
25. Of much gain, great wealth, gold, the sun, something 

shining or brilliant. 
26. Of peaceful possession, good property, the house, of 

level ground, foundations. 
27.A closed place or room, a short journey by boat; of a 

brother, or person in relation to yourself; a letter or a 

messenger. 
2 8. Of yourself in imagination; of white linen; a bowl or 

silver pot; a new moon. 
29. Of ill-health; a blood disorder; poor fare; a time of 

poverty and trial. 



113 



30. Of happy children, a pleasant experience, union, a 

fortunate dowry or legacy. 
31. Of something underground, a snake in the house, a 

scorpion or reptile, a foreign land. 
3 2. Of a king or rajah, a golden vestment, the sun, your 

own individuality and character. 
3 3. Of a pleasant message, a good position, a brother, 

some distinction. 
34. Of financial benefit, a purchase of food or other 

necessaries, grain, etc., some corporeal benefit. 
3 5. Of a female, a birth, a plot or scheme, something 

secret to yourself; a confinement. 
3 6. Of a loss by speculation, a sick child, an unhappy 

family, misery and trouble. 
3 7. Of an unfortunate contract, an unhappy marriage, a 

house or property, a stable. 
3 8. Of a death by malaria or enteric fever; of a journey, a 

message; of a sister; a neighbouring tank or pool. 
3 9. Of a closed place or temple; a gilded chamber, a 

king's sequestration or exile. 
40. Of money, things of value, jewels or apparel, the price 

of grain. 
41. Of yourself or your figure, your apparel, investiture, 

food, position, credit. 
42. Of a friend, a woman of quality, a patroness or her 

favour, a gathering of people, a convention. 
43. Of ancestral property, an old man, an old building, the 

value of minerals, a cemetery. 
44. Of a brother, a letter from across the seas or from a 

great distance, a book of theology, a sastra, of good 

health, of personal comforts, a luxury. 



114 



45. Of a marriage, of gain or loss, a thing of small value, 

an anna, tilt, bias, inequality, fraud. 
46. Of a friend, a man of position and honour; something 

of gold, of value, a jewel, a ring of gold. 
47. Of yourself, of justice, of equity, of value, measure, 

weight, proportion, peace, satisfaction, rest, a death. 
48. Of a robing-room, a private place, a servant in hiding, 

a woman's health, of news from a distance. 
49. Of a change of position, your own mother, a thing of 

distinction, a capitol, a woman in power, a queen or 

rani. 
50. Of a painful journey, a sister in distress, a doleful 

message, a call to office. 
51. Of gain and affluence, a stake or bet, of children, 

money from afar, a profession. 
52. Of personal disease or death, things lost, hidden, or 

occult, of a manservant; a red cloth; hot food; a 

doctor; yama; a reptile. 
53. Of high office, the rajah or king, a man in power, loss 

of gold, a dead lion. 
54. Of a dangerous illness, a woman in distress, of a wife, 

a girl, a contract or agreement, four walls. 
5 5. Of a death, alost paper, a message gone astray, a 

young girl, a gathering, a friend. 
56. Of a foreign country beyond the seas, of a sea voyage, 

a s'akti, a religious gathering, a publication, a ship, a 

ghost. 
5 7. Of acquired wealth, a hoard or store, a pension or 

inheritance, a male relative. 
5 8. Of acquisition, personal influence, a grandee, 



115 



vakil or lawyer, a judge, guru or prohita, instruction, 

the Vedas, a Brahmin; personal property, estate. 
59. Of a death-chamber, a hospital or sick-room, a male 

child; the household fire, a venture or hazard. 
60. Of a Parsee; a religious ceremony; a foreign king; a 

Rishi; samadhi; Brahma; the sun of heaven; I'shvara; 

time. 
61. Of food; trading; fine apparel; a male friend; a 

market-place or exchange; a manservant; a 

Vaishnavite Brahmin. 
62. Of a writing or agreement; an undertaking or contract; 

a legal process; position; mastership; a father. 
63. Of a dead woman; some lost property; a winding- 
sheet or death cloth; a waning moon; the wife's 

dowry; an ablution. 
64. Of yourself in regard to position; of acquired 

property; an inheritance; an old man; duration; a 

bargain or exchange. 
65. Of a short journey and return; going and coming; a 

foot journey; a closed room; a fortunate confinement; 

a sister; a mantram. 
6 6. A smashana or burning ground; a rocky place; 

minerals; a medical adviser; a dead friend; a burning 

house; dry ground or sand. 
67.A dead rajah; the loss of gold; the wife's dowry; a 

girdle; a sick child. 
6 8. Of a female child; the home circle; a position of trust; 

security. 
69. Of clothing; a servant; a ship; merchandise; 



116 



food stuffs; trade; a thing of science; a vedanga. 
70. Of a wife; an agreement; a public gathering; a full 

moon. 
71. A water pot or kumbha; an old association; a friend; 

yourself with others in company; a private place or 

room; a warder. 
72. Of wealth; a princely friend; a Brahmin; a religious 

meeting; of sandals and things in pairs. 
73. Of a brother; a position; the death of a ruler; a quick 

journey; an angry message; honours; succession; a 

writing. 
74. Of a brilliant sun; a great shining; eyesight; a proud 

wife; a powerful enemy; hunting. 
75. Of a pleasant place; a rich estate; moksha; buried 

treasure; cattle. 
76. Of a son; a place of learning; a schoolhouse; a bride; a 

Bramhachari. 
77. Of a white turban or dhoti; a serving-maid; medicine; 

water; drinking. 
78. Of an aged friend; an institution; an old alliance; a 

hospital; a man in prison. 
79. Of oneself; of increase and prosperity, position, 

power, and affluence; of extremities, the feet; a pair of 

sandals; an understanding; a judge or advocate. 
80. Of gain; a risk of loss; a loss by fire; of a foreign land; 

a far-off death; a pralaya; a voyage. 
81. Of a rich relative; fine apparel; golden ornaments; 

personal health; ripe fruit. 
82. Of a peaceful death; a rich dowry; a 



117 



pleasant message; an elephant ride; a journey for 

profit; a sister. 
83. Of trading; a treaty or agreement; a lease of property; 

a gateway or passage; a bride or betrothal. 
84. Of a daughter; a tank or bathing-place; a public 

festival; Durga; a holiday; clean linen; of one beloved. 

At this point the enumerations cease, since there are 
numbers employed and none can be more than 9, so that 
9 + 3 = 84 will complete the resolutions. There are, it 
will be observed, several interpretations to each resultant 
number, but when the kabala is worked out to its 
finality, there is little doubt as to which interpretation to 
use. Thus, from the resultant figures 36 I obtain, by 
change of components, the number 156; and 36 = 9, 
while 156 - 3 = 153 = 9. From 57 = 12, I get the 
permutation 123, and 123 - 3 = 120 = 12. Then, by a 
process of selection, a particular signification is derived, 
he property of the figures employed is of some interest, 
and, in fact, of eventual importance. 

RESULTANT, 36 = 9 
Permutations 



156-3 


= 153 


= 9 


165-3 


= 162 


= 9 


516-3 


= 513 


= 9 


561-3 


= 558 


= 9 


615-3 


= 612 


= 9 


651-3 


= 648 


= 9 



118 



RESULTANT, 57 = 12 or 3 



Permutations 






123-3 


= 120 


= 12 or 3 


132-3 


= 129 


= 12 or 3 


213-3 


= 210 


= 3 


312-3 


= 309 


= 12 or 3 


321-3 


= 318 


= 12 or 3 



I may now proceed to another aspect of the same 
kabala. 



119 



CHAPTER XII 
OF THINGS LOST 

As will probably be understood when the basis of this 
kabala is known, the divination may extend to a 
practically unlimited variety of affairs. Questions 
concerning the diagnosis of disease, concerning, 
investments, finance, property, position, occupation, 
domestic and social affairs, can be readily resolved by an 
extension of the first part of the divination, i.e. what is 
thought of. For if, in this system, the number does not 
answer to the thing or matter in mind, then no resolution 
can be made, and the consultant must free his mind of all 
other matters, concentrate on the simple question or 
object, and then deliver another series of numbers. It 
generally transpires, however, that the number reveals the 
matter in question at once, and the number is then dealt 
with according to rule. 

To deliver a resolution in regard to all the affairs of life 
would of itself fill a large volume. I shall therefore 
content myself by a single resolution of things lost. The 
number being given as before and resolved, if the 
resultant be 

l.The object must be looked for in a principal 



120 



room near white linen. A fair child should be questioned. 

2. It will be found in the house by aid of a serving maid, 

in or close to a vase or bowl. 

3. In a passage or between papers. 

4. The article is in your possession, and is not lost. 

5. You will get it back yourself with very little seeking. 

Look under a hat, turban, or other headgear. 

6.Where sandals or boots are kept, probably on a shelf, 

stand, or rack. 

7. Ask your servant, a maid especially connected with the 

wardrobe. 

8. On a shelf or horizontal ledge. A servant or workman 

will find it. 

9. A child has it among some clothing. 10. You get it 

back. It is in the chief room. 

11. You must take a short journey to a tank, pool, or 

stretch of water. 

12. You have not lost it, but mislaid it near your work, in 

your office, or by books and papers. It is safe. 

13. Look where you keep your cloak, shawl, or shoulder 

wraps. It is near neck-gear. 

14.Under a turban or hat. If outside, try a lavatory, sewer, 

or drain. Doubtful recovery. 

15. Ask the wife (or husband), and, failing that source, 

look through the stables or where horses are kept. 

16. The cook will enlighten you. You will recover it. 



121 



17. On a shelf or section of a cabinet, where works of art 

or valuables are kept. 

18. The thing is lost in the house, and will be recovered 

from among clothes. 

19. A short distance off in a dry, arid spot or sandy lane. 

20. The article is not lost, but mislaid only. It will be 

found by water, or close to fine linen. 

21. You have the article yourself. It is in a box or case 

which folds in two parts. 

22. The thing is on a shelf in the house, and will be 

speedily found. 

23. A short distance away; try another room where clothes 

are kept. 

24.You hold the article. It is not lost in any sense. 

25. A speedy finding among your personal effects. Find 

something white and round. It is there. 

26.Ask the oldest man in the house. He will have placed 

it in safety. 

27. Search the stables and question the ghariwan or 

coachman. 

28.A dead loss. Spare yourself the trouble of seeking it. 

29.An old servant or syce will give you a hint. The article 

is returned. 

30.You will get it back by inquiry among the children or 

students. Lost in play. 

31. In a closet or drain of the house. By good fortune you 

get it back again. 

32. On a near verandah or ledge; something oblong. 



122 



3 3. You have it, and will find it among your effects, 

probably in a dhoti or clothes. 

34.Near a fire, or in a principle room by a fireplace. It is 

quite close, and will be soon recovered. 

3 5. In a secret spot near water. Your wife's (or husband's) 

private room. Try a washing stand. 

36.Will be returned by an ayah or a guardian of children. 

3 7. In a shrine-room or private apartment. Will be found 

on the premises. 

3 8. You will get it back by a short journey to a place of 

ablution used by you. 

39. The article is not lost, but put aside upon a shelf. 

40.You will find it in your dhoti or other article of 

apparel; rolled in a turban, loin-cloth, etc. 

41. Where the wife's or husband's shoes are kept. In the 

house. 

42. In the house of the bawarchi or cook. Near some 

water or a kumbha. 

43 .Not far away. Try the pandal of the ghariwan and the 

stables. You get it back. 

44. You have it. Look among the oil-pots or lamps. It will 

need purifying. 

45. It is as good as found. Put your hand on a shelf and 

take it. 

46.Your partner has it in safe custody. 

47. Two servants are working together; question them. 

The one who is uneasy on his feet could inform you. 

48.Where you keep the drinking water. 



123 



49.As good as lost for ever. If found, will be badly 

damaged. 

50.Not lost, but in a box or receptacle of two parts. You 

have it. 

51. You will immediately recover it from a place of 

ablution. 

52.Ask your partner or the chief woman of the house; her 

relatives may help you. It has changed hands. 

53. A manservant has it in possession now. He will 

restore it. 

54.lt is in the family circle. Try the children's quarter. 

5 5. It is on the premises near a rain-pipe, or where water 

is. 

5 6. A short distance away. A communication with your 

last halting-place will discover it. 

5 7. You have the article; it is in a saddle-bag, a hip 

pocket, or where your sporting tackle is kept. 

5 8. It is in two persons' hands, and may, with difficulty, 

be recovered. It has been treated for. 

59.An old servant has it. It will be found among bread or 

in a cake, or in flour. 

60.lt appears to be lost beyond recovery. 

61. In the lower part of the house, near sandals or boots, 

socks or hose. 

62. A journey off. You will not recover it. 

63. You have the article. It is in an old, dark place, or 

among old effects. 

64. The article is in your possession. It has been mislaid 

and forgotten, and will be recovered in due course. Look 

in dark corners and high places. 



124 



65. It has gone out of your possession and will be 
recovered if at all by employing an agent. 
66.lt is lost by conspiracy of two servants. It can hardly 
be recovered. The man with the maimed hand is the one 
to interrogate. 

67. You will recover it by the aid of a young person or 
child. 

68.lt is at the top of the house. A servant will fetch it. 
69. A distance away. Your last halting-place. Near to a 
pyal or entrance to a house of a relative. 
70.You have the article. It is where water is kept. 
71. The article is not lost, but is in your possrssion. Begin 
at your feet and you will soon have it in view. 
72. It is in your possession, close to a kumbha or water- 
pot. 

73 .You will recover it by official inquiry. 
74.A faithful servant will restore it to you. 
75. The article has gone into the hands of young fellows. 
It will be restored but in a damaged condition or 
depreciated in value. 

76.lt is in the house, where bread and cereals are kept. 
77. A short distance off. It will be brought to the house by 
a servant. 

7 8. Some little way off, near oxen. Will hardly be 
recovered. 

79.You have the article. It is close to some steel or iron. 
80. The article is in your possession. In a thing of 



125 



two parts, a box or case; footgear is close at hand. 

81. Look among clothes, and you may be fortunate 

enough to find it. 

82. Where the cooking is done, in a kitchen. Test the 

khansamah. 

83. A young girl will recover it for you. It is near a tank 

or pool. 

84.lt is in the house, in a double receptacle, box, or case. 

It will be seen that many of the foregoing divinations are 
particularly pointed and explicit. If true and dependable 
they are undoubtedly very remarkable. They are true in 
my personal experience, and I have used them for years 
and on various occasions, so that I am in a position to 
speak for them. It is remarkable how completely 
successful they may prove in the hands of a person 
possessing the power of divination. This, of course, lies 
at the root of any divination, whether it has a numerical 
basis or any other form of symbolical foundation. If the 
divinatory faculty is there, any form or system may be 
used, but some are capable of yielding a closer result than 
others, and for this reason are to be preferred. If the 
divinatory faculty is not present in a person, he must, 
when consulting another, make use of a proxy or agent in 
whom such faculty has been proved by experience to 
exist. If a person void of the faculty shuffles a pack of 
cards, or uses figures as a means of divination, the most 
expert Cartomante or 



126 



Kabalist will prove ineffectual, since they can only 
interpret what lies before them. It is better that they 
should conduct the divination from first to last. The 
faculty does not necessarily lie with the Kabalist. His 
work begins and ends with the interpretation of the 
numbers submitted to him. Consequently, we frequently 
find that a person who is in no way a "sensitive", nor 
even possessed of ordinary intuitive powers, but who is 
nevertheless a good Kabalist, knowing how to interpret 
the symbolism of numbers, gets credits for being a most 
remarkable "medium", as if nothing in the world that is 
to be talked about can be accomplished without the aid 
of disembodied spirits. Let me say at once that one who 
is an occultist is the very last to be regarded as a medium. 
Save in the ultimate sense that we are all, from archangel 
to microbe, "fulfilling the Word" in some capacity or 
other, it cannot be said that we are played upon by the 
larvae of a morbid and earth-bound humanity. The 
occultist does not get his information "through", as 
spiritualists and psychic phenomenalists are wont to say, 
but he gets it direct from Nature, whose symbolism he 
has learned to read. 

If the "spirits" whom the gobe-mouches listen to with 
such rapt attention were capable of demonstrating their 
superior condition by the revelation of knowledge 
transcending that of the average embodied human, they 
would make such demonstration in such form and at such 
times as that the whole world would benefit from it. The 
fact that we have not added one syllable to the 



127 



sum total of human knowledge by this means since the 
dawn of modern spiritualism, ought to prove the futility 
of the whole pursuit. There are phenomena without 
doubt, which prove the existence in Nature of certain 
unfamiliar forces, but they prove nothing that is spiritual, 
are most frequently grossly material, and in no instance 
are they to be compared with the daylight performances 
of the Indian Yogi. The spiritualist seance has only 
succeeded in perpetuating the fact of post-mortem 
existence, of which the world at no time has been 
seriously in doubt, but it has failed to prove to us 
immortality. Indeed, it presents only a doubtful case for 
spirit identity. If its claims were not so foolishly 
preposterous, its contribution to modern speculative 
problems would be received with greater respect and 
consideration. The results of years of patient study and 
research having recently been described by a certain 
ignoramus as due to the exercise of a special psychic 
faculty or to spirit communications, compels this 
discrimination, in which I trust I have done no hurt to 
the feelings of any sincere investigator into what are 
called spiritual phenomena. 



128 



CHAPTER XIII 
THE KABALISM OF CYCLES 

It would appear that the origination of the decimal 
system of enumeration, which proceeds from one to nine 
and recommences the series at a higher power, increasing 
successively by tens, was an implicit recognition of the 
law of cyclic recurrence. There is no reason why units 
should not have gone from 1 to 13. The Hebrews may be 
said to think in twelves but count in tens, and this 
counting by tens is universal. Thus, while we have 
twelve months answering to the twelve signs, the seven 
days answering to the seven anciently recognised bodies 
of the solar system, there is in all Oriental nations a 
predilection for the method of counting by tens. This 
cyclic law has been recognised not only in science, but 
also in commerce, finance, and even agriculture. The 
suggestion, therefore, that events in terms of nine, is not 
in itself a very exceptional statement. The fact that its 
application to specific cases yields results of a 
surprisingly exact nature, tends rather to confirm the 
view of the Kabalists, who regard the number 9 much as 
the Alchemists regarded 



129 



their "Red Dragon" as a species of general solvent. Thus, 
any number being reduced to its unit value, as 1911 = 12 
= 3, the addition of the number 9 will produce the same 
unit value successively as 1920 = 12 = 3, 1929 21=3, 
1938 =21 = 3, etc.Hence, in the conception of those who 
see significance in numbers, the application of any factor 
to this cyclic series must have some special pointing. 

Such a factor is to be found in the numerical value of a 
person's name, as we have already seen, and this, when 
applied to the year in which that person was born, or in 
which any great crisis was reached, is found to have a 
kabalistic significance when reduced to terms of the 
Tarot - a favourite but by no means the only method of 
interpretation. 

One such kabala occurs to me as worthy of citation in 
regard to this law of cycles. According to this kabala 
it was seen that the year 1815 was destined to be one of 
great significance to the "Little Corporal Violet". 

Napoleon was born in 1769, and attained his 46 th year in 
1815. If now we add together 1815 and 46 we obtain 
1861 = 1+8+6+1 = 16. Referring this number to the Tarot 
keys we find No. 16 = "The Stricken Tower", a man 
falling headlong from an eminence, his crown falling in 
advance of him. It denotes the judgement of Heaven, 
reversal, danger of ruin, disaster, catastrophe. 

Cecil Rhodes, the "Colossus" of South Africa, was born 
in 1853 and attained his 49 th year in 1902. 



130 



Then 1902+49 = 1951 = 16, again "The Stricken Tower"! 
Miss Sophia Hickman, of the Royal Free Hospital, was 
found poisoned in Richmond Park in August 1903. She 
was born on 22 nd June 1874, and entered her 30 th year in 
1903. If to 1903 we add 30, the sum 1933 = 16. 



M.Carnot, the French President, was born in 1837, and in 
1894 attained 57 years of age. Then 1894 + 57 = 1951 = 
16. 



The poet Shelley was born in 1792, and entered his 30 th 
year in 1822. The year 1822 + 30 = 1852 = 16. 

It will be seen, therefore, that this number 16, and also 
13, which is the "Reaper" or "The Reaping Skeleton", i.e 
Death, are the most singularly fatal in the whole 22 keys 
of the Tarot. 



This cyclic recurrence of certain like incidents observed 
in several cases appears to have led to the construction of 
what are called "Alfridaries". By these tables it is 
presumed that the life is subject to successive 
combinations of planetary influence during its entire 
course. The starting point is from the Sun or Moon 
according to the time of day at which the birth took 
place. If in the afternoon from the Sun, and in the 
morning from the Moon. For those who were born after 
noon were held to be generated under solar influence, 
while those born after midnight were regarded as Moon 
born. An example of an alfridary is appended:- 



131 



ALFRIDARY 

After Moon Mercury Venus Sun Mars Jupiter Saturn Moon Mercury Venus Morn 



Sun 


1 


8 


15 


22 


29 


36 


43 


50 


57 


64 


Moon 


Venus 


2 


9 


16 


23 


30 


37 


44 


51 


58 


65 


Mercury 


Mercury 


3 


10 


17 


24 


31 


38 


45 


52 


59 


66 


Venus 


Moon 


4 


11 


18 


25 


32 


39 


46 


53 


60 


67 


Sun 


Saturn 


5 


12 


19 


26 


33 


40 


47 


54 


61 


68 


Mars 


Jupiter 


6 


13 


20 


27 


34 


41 


48 


55 


62 


69 


Jupiter 


Mars 


7 


14 


21 


28 


35 


42 


49 


56 


63 


70 


Saturn 



By this alfridary we see that a person born at 4 p.m. 
would commence life under the joint influence of the Sun 
and Moon, the second year being under the Moon and 
Venus, the third under Moon and Mercury, and so on; the 
8 th year being under Mercury and the Sun; and the 
dangerous periods would be those under the influence of 
Mars from 29 to 35, and Saturn from 43 to 49; the grand 
climacteric at threescore years and ten, and falling under 
the influence of Saturn and Mars conjoined, the 33 rd and 
49 th years being similarly prone to ill effects. But I think 
it will be conceded that any such cut-and-dried method of 
prognostication as 



132 



is here imposed, is agreeable neither to experience nor 
reason. In the numerical system, however, it is different, 
inasmuch as the progression is made not by years only, 
but by reference to the age attained in successive years, 
and as the Tarot extends only to 22 points, which is not a 
multiple of 9, there is not that degree of repetition which 
characterises the alfridaric prognostics. Thus, a person 
born in 1864 =19, Illumination, attains the age of 1 year 
in 1865, the sum being 1866 = 21; the age of 2 in 1866, 
the sum 1868 = 23; but as there are only 22 points or 
keys, 23 will be equal to 1 . 

Then follows the series:- 

1867, age 3, sum 1870 =16 

1868, age 4, sum 1872 =18 

1869, age 5, sum 1874 =20 

1870, age 6, sum 1876 =22 

1871, age 7, sum 1878 = 2 

1872, age 8, sum 1880 =17 

1873, age 9, sum 1882 =19 

1874, age 10, sum 1884 =21 

1875, age 11, sum 1886 = 1 

1876, age 12, sum 1888 = 3 

1877, age 13, sum 1890 =18 

1878, age 14, sum 1892 =20 

1879, age 15, sum 1894 =22 

1880, age 16, sum 1896 = 2 
etc. 

This idea of the cyclic law, or law of periodicity, has 
arrested the attention of scientists, among whom we may 
cite Mendelieff, who has shown 



133 



that the atomic weights of the elements follow the natural 
octave; and Sir William Crookes, whose Genesis of the 
Elements develops the same idea in regard to the 
differentiation of protyle via the hydrogen base by a 
graduation of the vibration frequency and a proportionate 
diminishing of the mean free path or play- space of the 
various atoms. Then, again, the researches of Prof. Ray 
Lancaster in regard to sunspots has shown that the solar 
disturbances come sporadically, i.e. in groups, at definite 
and well-defined periods. It has been shown, too, that 
these periods correspond to periods of famine, etc. 

Periodicity is, of course, at the base of planetary motions, 
and therefore also of cosmic changes. 

In human life we observe that there is a tendency of any 
action to automatically repeat itself, so that what was 
primarily a voluntary act tends to fall into the region of 
the automatic, and so become a habit. Let us suppose that 
nature has a habit of procedure peculiar to its 
constitution, then it will, in effect, observe a course 
which reveals a periodic law, another name for numerical 
sequence. We call it a law because it responds to a 
numerical sequence, not because we pretend to an 
understanding of its causation. 

But we really have no need to cite a supposititious case, 
for we well know that nature has such a habitual course 
as that suggested, and this is at the root of the 
vaticinations of the astrologers. Lunations and eclipses 
run in cycles, as also do the conjunctions and oppositions 
of the planets of the 



134 



system. There is the 19 year cycle of the lunation, at the 
end of which they recur in the same part of the zodiac - 
that is to say, at the same distance from the equinox on 
the same day of the year. If any effects of a physical 
nature can be rightly attributed to the combined action of 
the luminaries, then such effects will follow a cyclic 
repetition every nineteen years. The phenomenon of the 
tides is, I think, sufficiently obvious to be accepted as a 
basis of our argument without dissent. But we have no 
reason to suppose that Nature ceases to exist where we 
cease to perceive her; indeed, the revelations of modern 
science during the past twenty years sufficiently attest the 
folly of accepting the ordinary sense perception as the 
criterion of evidence. That being so, we are entitled, by a 
philosophical consideration of the relations of noumena 
and phenomena, to posit a possible extension of tidal 
influence into the domain of phreno-psychic functions. 

And if the luminaries so act to produce visible effects in 
the physical world, and appreciable effects also in the 
super-physical world, we may argue similarly in regard 
to the conjunctions and oppositions of other bodies of our 
system, since we are well assured of its solidarity. Then 
the conjunctions of Mars and Mercury, of Jupiter and 
Saturn, of Saturn and Mars, etc., will have their specific 
effects in the economy of the system; and this brings us 
immediately to the fact of periodicity in natural 
phenomena. For if a conjunction of Mars and Mercury 
takes place in a particular part of the zodiac today, it will 
again have place in the same 



135 



celestial region at the end of every successive period of 
79 years; and similarly with the other planets, as Saturn 
and Mars in 30 years, Jupiter and Saturn in 60 years, and 
so of the rest, some being of greater frequency and less 
effect, others of less frequency and proportionately 
greater effect, according to their distances from the Sun 
and their consequent velocities. 

Now, since the periodic times of the planets bear a 
definite known ration to their distances from the centre, 
Nature is seen to observe quantitive relations; which is 
actually what we look for in, as define as, cosmic law. 
Without this regard to numbers, the cosmos would be 
chaotic and unintelligible to us. But it is so well 
sustained by its laws, and so thoroughly harmonious in 
its relations, that we are able to say to within a minute of 
space where any celestial body will be found hundreds 
or thousands of years hence, and where it was as many 
years ago. 

But what of those radiant bodies which occasionally 
make incursion to our system, the comets and the star 
showers? Although their density is exceedingly small, 
and their action upon the planetary bodies practically nil 
from a gravitational point of view, their presence and 
great velocity must produce terrific perturbations in 
spatial ether, and that these visitants affect our 
atmosphere is evident from their luminosity, since etheric 
vibration becomes light only within our atmosphere. 
Similarly, they may produce great heat and consequent 
drought and famine, and also they may affect men's 
minds by the dependence of our thought and feeling on 
physical conditions. 



136 



Finally, they may be symbols or signs by which 
something we do not quite understand is signalled to us 
by the Great Intelligence. If we study them we may find 
out their meaning. When the hieroglyphics of Egypt 
were first discovered they formed an entire unknown 
language. But by great patience the symbolical writings 
of the ancient priests of Isis and Osiris and Amen Ra 
have been deciphered by the Egyptologists, and the 
language reconstructed so far as to be quite intelligible. 

If Nature is the book of God and the revelation of God to 
man, then, by the deciphering of natural symbols, we 
may arrive at an understanding of the divine language, 
the will and intention it expresses, and the purpose of 
creation with which God has been trying to impress us 
throughout the ages. 

Eventually we may find that in the study of the universal 
language we are realising ourselves, entering into the 
history and future of our own evolution, and then it will 
appear that cosmic laws are human laws, as well 
economic and social as moral and spiritual, and that the 
universe is man, the embodiment of divine thought, the 
expression of a perfect geometry, a complex 
mathematical formula which, when resolved, will be 
found to follow the numerical resolution: - 

1/7 =.142857 5/7 =.714285 

2/7 =.285714 6/7 =.857142 

3/7 =.428571 1 = .9 to infinity 

4/7 = .571428 
that is to say, a recurring decimal in terms of unity. 



137 



CHAPTER XIV 
SUCCESS AND FAILURE 

When we look round upon life, we are constantly struck 
by the inequalities existing between faculty and its 
material efficiency. The market value of any kind of 
ability is, of course, determined by the economic law of 
supply and demand, and a man of exceptional ability in 
some particular field of work will find little call for his 
labours. It is not so much that they are not wanted, but 
that he lacks the faculty of creating a demand by 
impressing others of their need for his work. The man 
who discovered the process of making magnesia by the 
ton ought to have been worth a million pounds at least. 
The fact that he died a poor man does not detract from 
his chemical ability; it only shows that he lacked the 
commercial instinct, a common defect of the real student 
in any department of knowledge. There are, however, 
other and more subtle causes at work to produce failure 
of this sort where success of another sort is conspicuous. 
Every man is, in fine, a Number. He is embodied 
number. That is to say, the mass-chord of his whole 



138 



constitution is in terms of a single digit, to which he 
answers in the gamut of life. If, for instance, his number 
is 3, then he is in sympathetic vibratory relations with all 
others whose number is 6, and in syntinic relations with 
those whose number is 3. But he would be in discordant 
relations with all men whose number is 5. Now let us 
suppose, as our kabala indeed suggests, that the number 3 
answers to the theological, and that 5, in terms of the 
same kabala, answers to the commercial. We can 
understand at once the fundamental difference existing 
between these natures. Again, let 9 respond to and 
represent the executive faculty, then we may expect an 
affinity or sympathetic relationship with 5, the 
commercial faculty. Our kabala informs us that 9 and 5 
are in such relations. 

Similarly, in regard to 3, which denotes increase, 
expansion, optimism, and growth, and 8, which denotes 
decrease, privation, destruction, loss, and pessimism, 
they are in opposition, and are mutually destructive. 

Consequently, we may derive some benefit of a practical 
nature from the measure of our own selves, and an 
understanding of the faculty we are designed to represent 
in the economy of life. If the name of a person should 
appear too slender an argument for differences of faculty 
and function, differences of fortune and of character, then 
let the date of birth stand as symbol of the man - without 
reference to his potential or measure of power, but 
merely in regard to his dominant characteristic and 
faculty. 



139 



If we find it answers, as must be the case where the 
kabalism is truely made, then it will afford an immediate 
key, not only to the character of the man, but also to the 
means by which he can most effectively pursue the line 
of least resistance, and so make the greatest progress. 

For it will be seen at once that he is not likely to prosper 
or effectively work out his destiny in association with 
persons whose key number is opposed to his own; and on 
the contrary, he will improve his fortunes and reinforce 
his powers by uniting his efforts to those of others whose 
key number is the same, or at least of a sympathetic 
nature. Thus, a man born under the signature of Mars and 
the number 9, would blight his prospects by alliance with 
one born under Mercury and the number 5. 

But it is perhaps a waste of words to argue each case on 
its own merits, and the ground can be covered by a single 
tabular statement of the sympathies and antipathies 
represented by the key number of an individual. This 
number, I need hardly add, is the result of adding 
together the day, month, and year of birth. In this scheme 
the year is generic, the month specific, and the day 
individualistic. For there are many thousands born every 
year, about one twelfth being born in each month; while a 
comparative few come out under the particular day, still 
fewer in any hour, and less still in any minute. Thus, in 
London the population of 4,758,218 in 1907, with a 
birth-rate for the year of 25.6 per thousand of the 
population, 



140 



gives 121,810 births in the 12 months. Then we have, in 
round figures:- 



Per year 


121,810 


Per month 


10,150 


Per day 


338 


Per hour 


14 



We see how busy a place London is from a psychic point 
of view, and how souls come tumbling into existence at 
the rate of 14 per hour on account of the enormous vortex 
of attraction which is set up by the whirl of its great 
activity and desire force. 

It has already been shown how the smaller periods of 
time are calculated from the planetary days and hours, 
and hence we may say that the line of demarcation is 
fairly well defined in every case. 

Thus, a person born on Tuesday, 26 th April 1910, at 4.05 
in the afternoon, would be primarily under the dominance 
of the planet Mars Tuesday; in a more intimate sense 
under the planet Venus, governing the hour, and 
specifically under the influence of the Moon, which 
governs the exact minute of the birth. 

From these elements we have the figures 532, all being 
negative, and the sum of these is 10= 1 , which is the key 
number of that individual. This method will be found 
more exact and representative even than the kabala of 
the Table of Three already dealt with in these pages. 

Now, having the key number of an individual, 



141 



we can apply it in a variety of ways to the ordinary 
affairs of daily life. Knowing his number, a man may 
choose a house by the agreement of its number or name- 
value with his own, may make choice of a wife, select a 
fortunate day on which to transact important business, 
and otherwise variously dispose himself in regard to an 
environment which by numerical selection is calculated 
to reinforce and uphold his effectiveness. 

The choice of a day must be made by its number, and 
likewise the hour and subdivision of the hour; while 
association with any other person should be controlled by 
regard to his key number of birth, or if this be not known, 
by comparison of the two dates from the Table of Three. 
For it frequently happens that a person does not know the 
hour of his birth, still less the exact time, and in these 
cases the Table of Three may conveniently be used. But 
in every case comparison must be made from the same 
basis and by the same method, whether by the Table of 
Three, the enumeration of the name, the Tarot, or any 
other means. 



142 



CHAPTER XV 
THE LAW OF VALUES 

We have already seen, when considering the principle of 
enumeration, that numbers express only quantitive 
relations unless we elect to regard them symbolically, 
when they assume a significance of an entirely different 
nature. We have seen that unity = 1 can be expressed in 
terms of an indefinite state of eternal becoming, as when 
1 = .9 to infinity. It is also possible to say 1 = 1 + x, 
where x is an infinite potential. For aught we know, the 
amoeba is potential man. Natural history seems to lend 
colour to the conception of a continual progression in the 
scale of evolution. We do not know how inorganic 
matter becomes organic, how the mineral becomes 
translated into the vegetable and the vegetable into the 
animal, but here and there we find examples of the 
transition. We cover the whole ground of manifold 
creation by a single word when we speak of 
differentiation, and the whole process of infinite 
progression of the forms of life when we define 
evolution. At the root of all is the one Life, the one 
Substance, the one Great Intelligence, from which all 
proceeds and to which all aspires. 



143 



Quantitive relations have no fixed value. Before we can 
say 2+ 2 = 4 we have to posit a qualitative value which 
has regard to the nature of things thus put together. Here 
we are giving to numbers something more than the power 
to express quantitive relations, we are giving them a 
qualitative value. We exercise this discrimination when 
we seek to form a cricket team or an eight-oar crew. It is 
not merely a question of 11 men or 8 men, but of 11 
cricketers and 8 oarsmen. Hence it is not the fact that 1 1 
men make a cricket team. They must first learn to play 
cricket. 

Moral values attach to numbers quite as much as do 
exchange values. Shakespeare expressed this fact in the 
saying: "He is well paid who is well satisfied". One can 
give a small boy a penny and a workman a shilling and 
get more work in exchange from the boy while giving 
equal satisfaction to both. Yet the needs of the man in a 
given time are not eleven times greater than those of the 
boy in the same time. Hence the penny and the shilling 
obtain a moral value in addition to their exchange value. 
Each is a token, and intrinsically of equal value in certain 
circumstances, so that 1 = 1 + 11 is a possible expression 
of fact. 

Nature has more regard to potentiality than to potency, to 
future possibilities than to present circumstance. 
Consequently, we find that her expressions of value are 
not fixed, but have always a cumulative adjunct 
represented by +x n , which we understand to mean 
indefinite evolution as, for example, 

Adam=l+4+4=9+x n 



144 



When the poet speaks of "the diapason closing strong in 
man", we apprehend his meaning but disagree as to his 
values. He leaves out of sight the fact that Nature as 
instrument is not affected by the limitations that are 
imposed upon ourselves, and that the divine harmony is 
not realised in man as we know him, because he is not a 
plenary expression of the soul of the Great Performer. 
The theme, if pursed to its logical conclusion, will bring 
us again to the fact that all values are relative, and since 
we are mainly concerned in this place with numbers as 
expressions of human relations - that is, with their 
symbolical values - we may pursue the study along 
these lines to greater advantage. 

That perspicuous thinker and fine poet, George 
Macdonald, LL.D., in his Phantastes, has this pertinent 
passage:- "They who believe in the influence of the stars 
over the fates of men, are, in feeling at least, nearer the 
truth than they who regard the heavenly bodies as related 
to them merely by a common obedience to an external 
law. All that man sees has to do with man. Worlds cannot 
be without an inter-mundane relationship. The 
community of the centre of all creation suggests an inter- 
radiating connection and dependence of the parts. Else a 
grander idea is conceivable than that which is already 
embodied. The blank, which is only a forgotten life, 
lying behind the consciousness, and the misty splendour, 
which is an undeveloped life, lying before it, may be full 
of mysterious revelation of other connections with the 
worlds around us than 



145 



those of science and poetry. No shining belt or gleaming 
moon, no red and green glory in self encircling twin- 
stars, but has a relation to the hidden things of a man's 
soul, and, it may be, with the secret history of his body as 
well. They are portions of the living house wherein he 
abides". 

This thought is a very vital one. It suggests the concept of 

the idealist that nothing exists for us save in our 

consciousness,, all things being related to us through our 

senses and our thoughts. Whatever affects the 

consciousness affects the man, and in an intimate sense is 

man, as Henry Sutton has so well expressed it:- 

"Man doth usurp all space, 

Stares thee in rock, bush, river, in the face; 

Never yet thine eyes beheld a tree; 

'Tis no sea thou seest in the sea 

'Tis but a disguised humanity. 

To avoid thy fellow, vain thy plan; 

All that interests a man is man. 

These lines have the endorsement of George Macdonald, 
who quotes them in his Fairie Romance with evident 
appreciation. The idea of all Nature being a "disguised 
humanity" is excellent, the phrase unique, and we, as 
students of the book of God's revelation, have to find the 
story of man's origin, history, and development in the 
world about us, as well distant as near. 

In the sense that Henry Sutton has so well put it, we may 
infer by human relations all of his powers, needs, hopes, 
joys, and aspirations that can find sublunary expression; 
and that which presses him 



146 



most closely in daily life is his need. It is not what a man 
has, but what he wants, that shapes his course and 
determines his efforts. It is man's need that gives to 
things their market value and makes opportunity for 
faculty and capital. 

Thus we get a new value for the number 8 and the planet 
Saturn, which stand as symbols of privation. We see 
them as the cause of all striving, and, in effect, 8 = 
evolution; and since evolution involves growth, 
expansion, development, the expression and realisation 
of potential faculty, we find that 8 is potentially 3. 

In a universe where everything is in a state of flux, where 
the status quo is an unstable equilibrium, we find that 
reaction is the law. For every rise there is a fall, for every 
flow an ebb, for every perihelion an aphelion, for every 
flood a drought. The experience is universal, and so fully 
recognised by the man in the street as to have given rise 
to the following jingle, which probably had its origin 
with some unfortunate speculator on the Stock 
Exchange :- 

"After the rise, the fall; 
After the boom, the slump; 
After the fizz and the big cigar, 
The cigarette and the hump"! 

It expresses a recognition of the law of action and 
reaction, which is responsible for the stability of the 
universe. 

We have already found that 8 = privation. We have 
connoted death, decay, ruin, injury, maiming, with this 
unfortunate number. It has been ascribed 



147 



to Saturn, the planet whose mass-chord of vibration is 
most inimical to us of the earth sphere whose number is 4 
(materiality), and our satellite the Moon whose numbers 
are 7 (increscent) and 2 (decrescent). Let us trace this 
influence in terms of cosmic law. The planet Saturn was 
in the sign Sagittarius in the year 1898. For many 
centuries prior to this date it had been known by 
observation that this sign of the zodiac "governed" Spain. 
Not that any disrespect was intended to the king, or even 
to Don Caesar de Bazan, but that the fortunes of that 
country were found to answer to the affections of that 
sign by the successive incursions of the various planets - 
as was noted by Kepler, who found it not beneath him to 
confess that "A most unfailing experience of the course 
of human events in harmony with the changes occurring 
in the heavens has instructed and compelled my 
unwilling belief. 

In 1898, therefore, we find Spain, in strict agreement 
with this dictum, suddenly plunged into a most 
unexpected and unfortunate war with the United States 
of America. "Spanish Fours" went down with a run on 
the Stock Exchange, and thousands of Spanish holders 
of the Government Stock were ruined. Spain lost her 
possessions in the West Indies and the Philippines, and a 
heavy indemnity was imposed when finally it 
capitulated. Altogether, some 100,000 men were killed 
during the hostilities. It was a black hour for Spain 
indeed. Since then the Spanish "Maine" has had a new 
meaning, for it has been officially ascertained by the 
salving of the American war- vessel that it was 



148 



not blown up by any Spaniard, but exploded from its own 
magazines, the explosion taking place from within and 
not outside of the vessel. There was, therefore, no 
adequate casus belli, and if we could eliminate Saturn 
and the number 8 from the sign Sagittarius in the year 
1898 = 1+8+9+8 = 26 = 8, we should find no reason to 
suspect that there might be one. Yet it is significant that 
the present writer specifically predicted this great 
struggle between America and Spain, the concomitant 
rise in the price of wheat, the loss of life and territory 
sustained by Spain, and the reconstruction of its 
Government Stock in the following year. 

The Russo-Japanese war took place in 1905, and was 
similarly attended by the transit of Saturn through 
Russia's ruling sign Aquarius. The prediction of its 
defeat was an easy matter to those instructed in natural 
symbolism, and the revolution, also specifically 
predicted, was the result of Saturn and Mars being 
conjoined in Aquarius. 

When Saturn passed into Pisces, which rules Portugal, 
the unrest and dissatisfaction of the populace found 
signal expression in the assassination of the King and 
Crown Prince, and was shortly followed by the 
revolution, due to the conjunction of Saturn and Mars as 
before, which deposed the monarchy. 

Now, if we look at the corresponding values of the chief 
securities of these countries, we shall find that they 
reflect the "depression" of the public mind due to the 
influence of Saturn. Spanish Fours, prior to the war, were 
in the 



149 



region of 80. In 1898 they fell to something under 30. 
Russias show the following remarkable fluctuations: - 
5 per cent Loan (1822) 

1897 =154 1906 =90 

4 per cent Bonds 

1896 =105 1906 =71 

3 per cent Bonds 

1898 = 96 1907 =61 

3.5% Gold Loan (1894) 

1897 =103 1906 =60 

The figures given are the highest and lowest between the 
years 1895 and 1907 for the several securities. We thus 
see that the lowest for the period of 12 years is touched at 
the time of Saturn's influence. 

Portuguese 3 per cent stock stood at 72 in 1906, 

and the influence of Saturn was such as to bring the value 

down to 58 in 1908. 

Japan, ruled by Libra, shows no corresponding 
depreciation as did Russia from influence of Saturn, for 
in 1906 the 4.5% (1905) Bonds stood at the highest point 
of over 97 since the date of issue, and in 1910, when 
Jupiter = 3 (increase and expansion) was in Libra, the 
price went up to over 102. 

The evidence is sufficiently marked to dispel all doubt as 
to the action of the planets upon human affairs, and we 
may consider the observation of Kepler to be justified. 



150 



Now we, as Kabalists, are chiefly concerned with the fact 
that the integrity of Nature is upheld by this coincidence 
of symbolism with "the course of mundane events". In 
these pages I have endeavoured to show that symbology 
extends far beyond the circle, the cross, or any other 
geometrical form which ordinarily is employed as such. I 
have brought in figures and numbers as symbols, and 
have linked them with sounds and colours. But this does 
not exhaust symbolism, nor does the application of the 
symbology of form, colour, sound, and number to 
individual character and fortune constitute the whole 
subject. We must extend our symbolism to the entire 
universe, and our interpretations must have regard to the 
evolution of the human race as a whole. The Kabalists, 
following the lines already instituted by the observations 
of astrologers, have attempted such an universal 
symbolism. 

The twelve labours of Hercules, the feats of Samson, and 
the progress of Israel from the captivity to the 
partitioning of Palestine, are so many symbols or 
ideographs set up to signal the evolutional progress of the 
race. Each is capable of a zodiacal interpretation (vide 
Drummond's Edipus Judaicus). Those who would pursue 
the subject of zodiacal symbolism in relation to the great 
epochs of human history should endeavour to obtain the 
works of C.Massey, E.V.Kenealy, J.Mackay, and Capt. 
Drayton, in each of which some glimpses of the system 
of interpretation are to be found. 

In the present instance, we are concerned chiefly 



151 



with the kabalism of numbers in relation to the law of 
values. This cannot be effectively followed apart from a 
study of cosmic elements, the planets of the solar system, 
the cycles of the lunations and eclipses, and the divisions 
of the heavens called the signs of the zodiac. It is the 
recurrence of these planetary periods and luni-solar 
cycles that constitutes the ebb and flow of human affairs 
and the corresponding changes or fluctuations in values. 
The cycle of Saturn is 30 years, of Jupiter 12, of Mars 15, 
of the Sun 19, of Venus 8, of Mercury 10, and of the 
Moon 4. The saros or eclipse cycle is 18 years 10.5 days, 
which, in 3 cycles, amounts to 54 years 1 month, and in 
36 cycles to 649 years, after which the eclipses begin 
again and recur on the same days of the year. Those who 
have studied the marked physical effects due to, and 
coincident with, central eclipse, especially when the 
Moon is in perigee, i.e. at nearest distance from the 
Earth, will be prepared to allow that such may also have 
an effect upon individuals. Tycho admitted the 
symbolism of eclipses, and has given us examples of his 
interpretations, while Kepler has argued for their 
causative relations with humanity. It is an ancient belief, 
much better sustained by observation than many of our 
modern scientific theories, and can be accepted on the 
authority of those who have made the matter a subject of 
study for many years. Applying this observed malefic 
influence of eclipses to the problem of values, let A be 
the place of the sun at the birth of a person, that of a ruler 
or president; let B be the place of the 



152 



Moon; and CC the meridian; and DD' the horizon 
respectively. 



® 



-D' 



B]) 



It will be found that whenever an eclipse of either 
luminary shall fall on any of these points, a period of 
sickness, depression of fortune, loss and disaster, will 
follow, such period commencing as many days from the 
date of eclipse as the luminary is degrees from the 
horizon it last crossed, whether E. or W., and the duration 
being equal to four times the number of days that the 
luminary is distant in degrees from the horizon to which 
it is proceeding. Thus, for example, there was a total 
eclipse of the Moon on the night of the 3 June 1909, 
which accordingly fell on the point A in the horoscope of 
H.M. King George V, then Prince of Wales; the 



153 



eclipsed Moon being then about 90 degrees from the 
west horizon and an equal distance from the east horizon. 
Then 90 x 4 = 360 days as the duration of this eclipse 
influence, extending to the end of May 1910, the 
beginning being 90 days after the birthday, or 1 st 
September 1909. 

In the same year and month there was also a considerable 
eclipse of the Sun, which had place at point D' in the 
horoscope of King Edward VII. The eclipse took place 
on June 17 th , just before 11.30 at night, and hence the 
Sun was about 82.5 degrees from the west horizon, 

tin 

giving the beginning of the period of effects on the 7 
September 1909, and, as the Sun was 97.5 degrees from 
the east horizon, and 97.5 x 4 = 390 days, the date of the 
expiry of the eclipse period would be about 12 th July 
1910. Within the limits of this period Edward the 
Peacemaker had passed away. 

If instead of an individual we take the horoscope of a 
nation, we shall find the same rule holds good, but this 
statement is open to the objection that whereas the 
individual horoscope is certainly known from the 
moment of birth, that of a nation has to be empirically 
determined by a long series of observations. We do not 
certainly know by what method Nature partitions the 
zodiac among the nations, or how she determines the 
destiny of any country from the affections of a particular 
sign, but we know from experience that in some 
particular manner there is a correspondence between the 
signs and the several members of the human body, and 
between the signs and various countries which are found 
to answer to them. 



154 



The facts cannot be disputed; the reasons are perhaps 
obscure, and it is therefore convenient to regard the 
whole scheme as having a human significance and, in a 
special sense, intelligible only in terms of human 
consciousness and experience. 

Then Saturn, as privation, threatens the life every 7 or 8 
years by its quadrature, but more especially every 15 
years by its conjunction and opposition; while Jupiter 
gives increase and expansion every 4 th year, and more 
especially every 12 th year. 

Events that characterised any particular month are apt to 
find repetition every 19 th year in the same month of the 
year, because the lunations repeat themselves after 19 
years about the same date, and are therefore in the same 
horoscopical relations as 19 years previously. This law of 
"correlated successiveness", as it has been called, is the 
means employed by nature to preserve the equilibrium of 
things and regulate the law of values. It gives rise to 
diversity of fortune, and thus fosters inter- dependence 
among the various sections of humanity. For, while it is 
true that one governs and another serves, one has wealth 
and another lack of means, it is also true that nothing is 
effected save by the consent of that which is below. We 
see this in horoscopy, where the Sun promises some good 
by its benefic aspect to some planet in the horoscope, but 
is unable to bring it into effect until the Moon comes to 
the same or a similar aspect in the horoscope. The gods 
will that there should be a beginning of the millennium 
tomorrow if not today, but humanity does not like it so, 
and the great day of 



155 



universal peace and goodwill is indefinitely postponed. A 
king is ruler by the will of the people, for none can be 
king without subjects, and therefore we see that it is one 
of Nature's economic laws that the superior depends 
upon that which is inferior, while that which is beneath 
receives the sanction and purpose of its existence from 
above. 

A man whose signature is 3 can become rich by 
expenditure and the free use of that which he possesses; 
while one whose signature is 8 can only become so in 
course of time by frugality, patience, self-denial, 
privation, and hard saving. For Jupiter demands 
expansion, liberty, largesse, and generosity from those 
whom he endows, while Saturn demands a "time 
contract" and much durance from his subjects. Mars, on 
the other hand, requires a risk, a hazard, a speculation or 
daring exploit, something that is "touch and go", as a 
fuse in a mine or a match to gunpowder. In every 
department of life it is always the same mandate under a 
variety of conditions. "Take what thou wilt, but pay the 
price", as Emerson has wisely said. 

A man whose signature is Mars, whose number is 9, will 
have a positive and forceful nature. He may express it in 
lawlessness and open violence, and bring himself under 
the penalty of the law; or he may undertake some great 
pioneer work in which concentrated energy, direction of 
force, intrepidity, zeal and intensity are effective 
characteristics, and so gain honours and emoluments for 
himself. At quite an early stage in the study of the law of 
values we find that a number signifies a definite 



156 



characteristic, but does not indicate anything concerning 
the manner of its expression. The influence of 8 may 
operate to produce reservation, conservation, steadiness, 
or it may tend to deprivation, misfortune, and 
misanthropy. Character is the expression of individuality 
as seen through the coloured glass of personality and 
environment. Numbers are a key to this expression, but 
they do not inform us as to individual attributes or 
inherent powers. Nature, however, is jealous of her 
products, and observes the law of conservation of 
energy in human destiny as in cosmic operations, and 
conceivably follows the lines of least resistance by 
adapting environment to aptitude, or, at all events, 
affording suitable birth-conditions to every evolving 
entity. 

Similarly, Saturn = 8, may tend to a scarcity of an article 
by diminishing production or supplies; in such case the 
price of the commodity will be temporarily enhanced. On 
the other hand, it may operate to diminish the demand for 
the article, which consequently falls in value. The key to 
this interpretation of 8, or any other number or 
corresponding planet, is one of the arcana of kabalistic 
and astrological science which have been successfully 
applied to the question of values for many years past, not 
only as to the greater periodic movements of the various 
markets, but also the monthly and daily fluctuations, so 
that the whole matter is in evidence and in every way 
confirms the view of Kepler concerning the concurrence 
of mundane events with changes occurring in the 
heavens. 



157 



The introduction of this subject of the law of values, and 
the study of it from the point of view indicated at the 
outset of the present work, is the outcome of an 
admonition received many years ago from a man of 
known commercial ability and sufficient common sense 
to harbour a belief in the solidarity of the universe and 
the consequent probability of planetary influence in 
human life. "Make your science practical, and it will be 
recognised", he said, and in order to do so we must 
interpret the language of Nature into terms of everyday 
life. Neither astrology nor kabalism is a religion. They 
will never save a soul from self- destruction, but they can 
throw a welcome light upon the dark and narrow paths 
through which many a starved and belated soul has to 
push its way towards the place where humanity has set its 
camp. Where there was tyranny and servitude, oppression 
and slavery, opulence and indigence, happiness and 
misery in a world already made, the light of natural 
symbolism reveals an infinity of changing conditions and 
a universal service of indefinite opportunity occurring to 
each and every soul in a world that is for ever in the 
making. For the teaching of the universal symbolism is a 
scientific optimism for which we have the warrant of 
analogy. Whatever may be the sun to which a soul may 
be attracted, we know that it is answering to a 
gravitational pull and slowly but surely approaching the 
consummation of its purpose. At this period in its career 
it may be in aphelion, far away in the drear wilderness of 
life, with a minimum 



158 



of light and heat to cheer it on its way. But the law of 
compensation is for ever at work, and, as surely as a soul 
is now in aphelion, it will some day be in perihelion, 
bathed in the sunshine of a perfect day and as near as the 
law of his being will permit to the object of his 
ambitions. Further, we know that at every successive 
revolution he will come to a place that is a little nearer to 
the heart of being. The law of evolution is cyclic or 
periodic, it is never retrogressive, but always 
progressive. The spiral course of a gravitating body has 
given rise to the idea among superficial observers that 
humanity retrogresses or continually pursues the same 
unchanging orbit. Closer observation will show that, 
whereas it appears to return to the same place, it is in 
reality a little nearer to its gravitating centre at every 
revolution. In a single revolution, the increment is 
inappreciable; in a thousand or ten thousand it becomes 
considerable. Today the Earth is neared to the Sun than it 
was twenty centuries ago, and the Moon is further away 
from the Earth; but also the velocity of both has 
changed, and the Earth turns upon its axis in a shorter 
interval of time. We are getting closer to the centre of 
gravity; we are, as is our planet, answering to the inward 
ull. The best of men are deifying, most of us a- 
humanising, still; but all are gradually, imperceptibly - 
yet surely - evolving. We need no other argument than 
that afforded by cosmic law to uphold the doctrine of 
optimism. The laws of periodicity, of cyclic progress 
and of gravitation, ensure the working out of the law of 
compensation, and this 



159 



is the basis of our law of values which here has been 
partially considered. We learn from the law of values that 
rise and fall, increase and decrease, gain and loss, are 
only relative and at most but temporary terms, having no 
permanent value in a scheme that demands continual 
progress. But also it affords us that measure of 
opportunity which is required for the exercise of our 
faculties and powers, and the old adage, "Needs must 
when the devil drives", is only another expression of the 
fact that "Necessity is the mother of invention", and 
equally that "Suffering is the cause of evolution", for:- 

"Stronger than woe is will; 
That which is good 
Doth pass to better, best". 

Without restriction and pain, without need and suffering, 
there would be no sustained effort towards expansion, 
and without effort no development of power and faculty. 

Thus we see how the study of the universe as symbol 
leads us to a more just conception of the Divine 
Economy, and how the law of values, when worked out 
to its last equation, speaks only of the beneficence of 
God. Incidentally it may serve us to improve our 
opportunities and make the best of life by timely effort in 
work that is agreeable to our natures and within the range 
of our faculties, as indicated to us by the kabala of 
numbers and other means of interpretation available to 
us. What I have here tried to show is the fact that 1 = 1 + 
x n , and 8 = 3. To have succeeded, if only partially, will 
be 



160 



to have given to the kabalistic theory a new value, lifting 
it to the position of a gospel of optimism, at the same 
time inviting the philosophical consideration of a new 
law of values, which has regard to the scientific fact of 
human evolution and the moral incident of individual 
aspiration. 

I have already said that neither kabalism nor astrology is 
a religion, and I do not see cause to depart from this 
statement. I am inclined to think, however, that both may 
contribute something to the structure of a true religion 
which has regard to the symbolical value of the universe 
as the revelation of God to man. Emerson, in his essay on 
"Idealism", has seized upon this idea and embodied it in 
the following fine phrase, which I venture to quote from 
memory: "The idealist views the world in God. He sees 
the whole circle of events, of persons and things, not as 
painfully accumulated, atom by atom, act after act, in an 
age creeping past, but as one vast scene painted on the 
instant eternity by the hand of God for the eternal 
contemplation of the human soul". 

The laws of thought imposed upon us by 2 2 = 4 
(materiality) may be changed by an altered relation to the 
universe, and it may then appear that the apparent 
changes taking place in the world about are reflections 
answering to changes in our consciousness, and that the 
great picture of man in the image and likeness of God, 
the "fulness of the stature of Christ", has never 
undergone any change since the world began. 



161 



CHAPTER XVI 
BRUNO'S SYMBOLISM 

Throughout this work we have been able to trace that 
unity in diversity and that diversity in unity which 
constitutes a canon of faith. We see throughout the 
manifest universe a unity as to essence and a diversity as 
to expression which was perhaps better understood by 
Bruno than by his inquisitors who formulated the 
doctrine. 

Bruno was the originator of the Doctrine of 
correspondences which was afterwards and perhaps more 
patiently illustrated by Swedenborg. The Nolan 
philosopher was an originator of the Hermetic doctrine 
"As above, so below", for he affirmed that the smallest 
thinkable body is a mirror of the universe. 

As to the Doctrine of Correspondences, we have this 
formula from him: What harmony is to the universe, so is 
virtue to the individual and social law to the community. 
What light is to the stars, so is intelligence to the spirit 
and science to humanity. Here we have the 
correspondences of harmony, virtue, and social law. Also 
of the universe, the individual, and humanity. Bruno 
recognises that 



162 



man as individual is an embodiment of the universe, and 
that the same quality and the same conditions as those 
which are required to uphold the universe are essential to 
humanity and each of its members. This clearly shows 
that he was a deductive philosopher, arguing from 
universals to particulars. He further shows that light in 
the physical world, intelligence in the spiritual world, 
and science in the social world are correspondences. 
Further, he shows that the mathematical point, the 
physical atom, and the spiritual monad are 

correspondences. This infers something more than a 
mere analogy or similitude. It argues a direct interaction 
or continuity the one with the other. It means, in fact, 
that the physical atom is the ultimate expression of the 
spiritual monad, and that without the latter there could 
be no physical existence whatsoever, since the physical 
universe is the bodying forth of the spiritual. Hence 
physically we have the atom, intellectually the point, and 
spiritually the monad. This monad is the divine spark or 
scintilla in the human being, the "light that lighteth every 
man when he cometh into the world". 

Astronomically this monad is the Sun, the centre and 
source of life and light to our system of worlds. It is the 
ultimate manifestation of the Central Fact of Being, the 
manifestation to us of the divine Wisdom and Love. 
Without its continual radiation the worlds would be but 
barren wilderness and lifeless orbs revolving in space. 
Indeed, they could hardly be said to exist as worlds. So 
without 



163 



the Wisdom and Love of God directing and vitalising the 
human soul it could produce nothing of good and would 
be but the play of natural forces. But inasmuch as this 
play of natural forces is nothing but an expression of the 
Divine Will, even they could not be said to exist apart 
from the Source of their expression. Thus we see how 
Bruno rightly apprehended the spiritual significance of 
the physical facts of the universe, and how he regarded 
the integrity of things to consist in their divine 
dependence. 

Because of this essential unity of all things the number 
One has come to be invested in all kabalistic systems 
with singular and even divine attributes. Thus we see 
how in the universal system 1 symbolises manifestation 
from zero 0, the positive and active principle in all forms 
of life. It stands also for the Logos, which is the 
manifestation in time and space to us of the Divine 
Unmanifest Being. It represents also individuality; in a 
religious sense the Lord, and in a scientific sense the 
underlying unity of things. A symbol of the Sun. 

In the Tarot it indicates "the Magnus", which is a symbol 
of the Creator, who produces the universe by the magical 
power of His ideation. Even the Ephesians, punctilious in 
all the externals of religion, erected an altar "to the 
Unknown God", fearing lest in the construction of their 
pantheon they had ignorantly omitted one to whom 
recognition was due; and it was the custom among the 
ancients either to add or remit one from the allotted 
number. Thus there came to be "luck in odd numbers" of 
which one was 



164 



the first and most significant. 

These are ideas which, as Bruno said, "germinate like 
amputated roots, ancient truths which are again unfolded, 
occult verities that are now revealed, constituting a new 
light that during the long night has been hidden beneath 
the horizon of our consciousness, and now, little by little, 
makes its way towards the meridian of our intelligence". 
For these truths were expressions of the Soul of Things, 
in which the philosopher had implicit faith, for always 
beyond the thing of form he beheld the soul of it, which 
was its imperishable part. 

Thus he speaks of the Soul of the World as "the formal 
constitutive principle of the world and of all that it 
contains; for all things, although not animal, are 
animate". And this doctrine is again and again repeated 
in the various works of this intuitive thinker, as in the 
Ceneri, where it is said: "Everything participates in Life, 
there are innumerable lives not only in us but in all 
composite bodies, and when we regard a thing which is 
said to be dying, we should rather understand that it 
changes, and that there is an end to that accidental 
composition and configuration, whilst there yet remain 
those things that are incorrupt and for ever immortal. 
....Nothing is ever annihilated or lost to being save the 
accidental, exterior, and material form it holds". 
Concerning Matter itself, Bruno held that it was eternal 
and indestructible as to its essence, though evanescent 
and mutable as to form: "All the difference that we see 
in bodies is in regard 



165 



to their form, complexion, constitution, and other 
properties and relationships, which is nothing more than 
a different mode of the same substance, the unchangeable 
and eternal essence in which are all forms, constitutions, 
and members, unmanifest and homogeneous". 

From the Spirit, which is the life of the universe, proceed 
the life and soul of whatsoever is living and ensouled and 
understood to be immortal, as also are all the bodies as to 
their substance, being not otherwise dead save in that 
they are subject to dispersion and aggregation, which is 
clearly expressed in Ecclesiastes: "That which is to be 
hath already been, verily there is nothing new under the 
sun". For Bruno spoke of spontaneous generation, of the 
origin and transformation of the species, in a manner that 
was foreign to the thought of his times. 

Bruno was enabled to anticipate much of modern 
scientific and philosophical thought solely because he 
had studied a pure Kabalism, which recognised Number 
as implicit in all the works of the Spirit. Consequently, he 
protests against "the foolish and unreasoning idolaters", 
meaning of course those who upheld the crass orthodoxy 
of his day in Europe, who, he affirmed, "have no cause to 
deride the magic and the divine cult of the Egyptians, 
which in all things and in all effects, according to the 
scope of each, contemplated the Divine.... They knew, did 
those sages, that God was in all things and that divinity 
was latent in Nature". It is from this point of view that 
we are able to 



166 



raise the study of Kabalism to its true and proper place 
among the sciences, and endow it with the virtue and 
quality of a system of thought. All that we know or can 
ever know of the Supreme Mind and Will is embodied 
and expressed in Nature, and the study of natural 
phenomena must therefore be our guide to true religion. 
For the reversion of man to the Divine is through Nature 
to Nature's God by means of contemplation. It is not then 
enough that we study to know the relations of things 
themselves to one another, but we must study the 
relations of things in themselves to the source of their 
existence. 

As in music the tones bear a certain proportional 
relativity to one another without violating the sense of 
harmony, irrespective of the exact number of vibrations 
constituting the tonic, so the whole universe embodies a 
certain relativity of its parts, irrespective of the exact 
measurement of any one of its bodies. 

Thus a stringed instrument may be raised or lowered in 
pitch without in any way affecting its manipulation or the 
relative value of its notes. Similarly the distances of the 
planets from the Sun may be increased or reduced from 
what we now assume them to be, without in the least 
affecting our astronomy or altering in any way the 
relative distances of the various bodies from their 
common centre. In a manifest universe there is no such 
thing as an absolute standard, everything is relative. We 
see and know things only in relation to one another. It 
has been said, for instance, that "the 



167 



distance from the Earth to the Sun is the measuring rod 
by which we compute all other (astronomical) distances", 
and although we may concede that others may know 
better than the late J.R.Hind F.R.S., their standard 
remains the same. 

If two observers look at the same body in space from 
two widely sundered points of view, their lines of vision 
will intersect one another at an angle which is 
proportionate to the distance of the body - the nearer the 




body the greater the angle. This angle is called Parallax, 
and by knowing this angle and the distance between the 
observers we can find the length of the perpendicular 
which bisects it and the angle of Parallax, and this length 
will be the distance of the body from the Earth. 

Let A and C be the observers, and B the body in space. 
Then the angles at A and C are known by observation, 
and thence is derived the angle at B. Having the two 
angles and the base we can find the other sides and also 
the length of the perpendicular 



168 



BD, which is the distance of the body B. 

We have already seen that, as regards the solar system, 
the orbits of the several planets are what we hold them to 
be only in regard to a stationary Sun, whereas we are 
confidently assured that the Sun is itself in motion 
through space, which by no means interferes with the 
relative distances of the bodies themselves, but entirely 
dispels any idea of a fixed relationship such as that 
implied by the elliptical orbit. And if we take the 
physical fact that all bodies at 37 times their own 
diameters from the eye appear to the spectator as of equal 
size, then some of our notions about the distance of 
bodies in space will have to be revised. Relative truths 
are all that we can hope for in regard to anything in this 
universe, since everything is conditioned by our own 
consciousness and sense limitations, but the relations of 
our perceptions should nevertheless be true. 

This relativity of perception and apprehension of the 
universe about us puts us in the position of interpreters. 
We take the phenomenon as a signal, and from a series 
we establish a code which thereafter we apply to a 
variety of different sets of phenomena. This constitutes 
our science. Kabalism in the same manner establishes a 
certain relativity between numbers, which we regard as 
the quantitive relations of things, and thence arises a 
system of interpretation which is capable of a universal 
application. 

But this does not give us an absolute value for 



169 



One. Thus it may stand for unity in the abstract as the 
principle of being or existence. On the other hand, it may 
symbolise Deity, the universe, ego, the atom, the monad, 
or aught else that in itself is a sole entity. 

There is thus a relativity in Unity as well as essential 
identity, although in things of a kind relativity is usually 
regarded as beginning with Two. For we see that the 
atom is related to the individual, and the individual to the 
universe, and the universe to its Lord, who is in sole 
relations with the Unmanifest Deity, the Absolute or 
Zero, 0. There are what Swedenborg would call "discrete 
degrees" between each of these existences. But if we 
have two atoms or two egos, two monads, etc., the two 
are on the same plane of existence as one another, and 
are therefore continuous of each other, as to the plane of 
their existence, while remaining separate entities, which 
is what Swedenborg calls a "continuous degree". 

Now as all planes are in continuity, as required by their 
existence as planes, we may say that matter is continuous 
of matter throughout the universe, that mind is 
continuous of mind, and spirit of spirit. Further, from 
what we have already argued about discrete degrees, we 
are able to say that matter is the substratum of mind, as 
mind is of spirit, and spirit of Deity. Moreover, the 
doctrine of the Immanence of God requires that He is 
present in all His creations, not immediately as oxygen 
in air, but mediately as the will and consciousness are in 
the body of man. Therefore 



170 



by a variety of dependencies, all existences upon all 
planes are linked together, and together constitute the 
body of God. Thus when we speak of the Living God we 
should understand that conscious Will which is the life of 
the universe and expressed in all its operations, relations, 
and conditions. But even so we are at liberty to reflect 
that this universe of ours is but an infinitesimal part of 
the existent, and ought therefore to be regarded rather as 
a molecule belonging to the Corpus Dei and not the 
entire body. 

Here we come at once to the monadology of Leibnitz, 
which was so fully apprehended by Bruno as to 
constitute an essential part of his philosophy. In this 
system of thought we regard every part, every atom, as 
reflecting every other part of the body to which it 
belongs, and therefore every universe comes to be a 
reflex of the Divine, as if a light falling upon a crystal 
sphere should illuminate the entire sphere and therefore 
all of its parts or molecules, and thus there would be a 
myriad molecules, each consisting of millions of atoms, 
all illuminated from a single source of light; and, 
mirabile dictu, every atom is a sphere in itself. 

If we now take the idea of continuity in matter we shall 
find that it can only be worked out on the principle of the 
hexagon. No other form is capable of affording contact 
with an equal number of units of the same form and size 
as itself. There is a magic in the number Six which enters 
freely into all Nature. Water, for example, crystallises at 
an angle of 60 degrees, which is one-sixth of the circle. 



171 



Hence water was held among the Theurgists to be the 
prime base of all this world's evolutions. Six is the 
number of perfection of work, industry, occupation; and 
as Nature is regarded as the mother of all things, so the 
astrologers put the mother symbol as the sixth sign of the 
zodiac. The significance of the interlaced equilateral 
triangles is already well known. It illustrates the sacred 
nature of the number Six. Perhaps the better formula of 
water = 2H2O will appeal to the scientific mind in 
symbol. 




It may be convenient to regard all matter from the point 
of view that the atom is a hexahedron rather than a 
sphere. My faith in ancient creeds is by no means 
exhausted, for at all points I find them to be more 
imaginative and suggestive than the dry formularies of 
modern anomalistic science. To the extent that a theory 
of matter is universal and capable of spiritual 
interpretation it is to be preferred. 



172 



For the reason that Six was found to be a number 
representing Creation, the number Seven attained a 
dignity and significance which we can only compare with 
the divine attributes. It was the point within the triangles, 
the centre of the hexagon, which by existence constituted 
a unifying factor and gave it a particular virtue. It was at 
once seized upon by the Hermetic philosophers to 
indicate the totality of things. Ir became related to the 
Sabbath, and was used to signify fulness and completion. 
So a week was made to consist of seven days, and a great 
cycle of seven millenniums. The Kabalists brought it out 
from the Oriental mysteries to typify the seven creative 
forces, the three lords with their s'aktis - Brahma, 
Vishnu, S'iva - Saraswati, Lakshmi, Parvati. They 
symbolised the solar system under a glyph, which 
employed the seven bodies known at that time. Thus:- 




We have the symbol of the Sun holding the central 
position, surrounded by a ternary of the three 



173 



major planets, Saturn, Jupiter, and Mars, and a 
complemental ternary of the three minor bodies, Venus, 
Mercury, and the Moon. 

The symbols were repeated in the seven lamps and the 
branches of the golden candlestick. The septenary idea is 
indigenous to the Hebraic system, and is found in 
evidence at all stages of its development, from the 
Chaldean conception of the Creation to the establishing 
of the Covenant and the building of the Temple. There 
can be little doubt that the ceremonial of the Jews was 
based upon astronomical ideas then current, and St Paul 
bears testimony to this in speaking of the ordinances of 
Moses and the construction of the Tabernacle, which he 
says was ordained "after the pattern of things in the 
heavens". The leper was told by Elijah to wash himself 
seven times in the river Jordan - a cryptic symbol of the 
Gilgaluth or cyclic law of rebirth, the name Jordan 
signifying River of Knowledge. David the King prays 
that his soul may be "tried as silver is tried and seven 
times purified in the furnace of earth". For it appears that 
the Hebrews believed that incarnations were necessary 
until the seven stages of purification had been effected. 
The furnace of earth is of course the material body, and 
the silver thrown into it for the purpose of purification is 
the human soul, typified by the Moon, which rules silver. 
Similarly we have the perfection of things indicated by 
stages of seven times seven, which is the Hebrew jubilee 
- though for some reason unknown we have adopted the 
custom of celebrating the jubilee at the end of the fiftieth 



174 



year, instead of the end of the forty-ninth or beginning of 
the fiftieth, - and we find that "seven times seven" and 
"seventy times seven" are numbers that indicate 
completeness and perfection, a Sabbath of Sabbaths. 
Thus the Israelites are represented as having passed 
around the walls of Jericho seven times each day for 
seven days, after which they celebrated the jubilee (horn- 
blowing). 

In connection with the subject of the Gilgaluth or cyclic 
revolutions of the human soul, we have to employ the 
symbols of the Sun and Moon as representing spirit and 
matter, or the natural elements of fire and water. "Except 
ye be born of water and the Spirit, ye cannot enter the 
kingdom of God", is in this sense apposite. The numbers 
of the Sun and Moon are respectively 36 and 28, which 
being multiplied into one another yield 1008, a number 
of considerable astronomical importance; and one- 
seventh of this is 144, which is, as we have seen, the 
number of the Man "of the fulness of the stature of 
Christ" and the original type Adam is enumerated thus in 
the Hebrew Kabala - Al, D4, M4, or 144, which is 12 x 
12, the measure of the New Jerusalem. 

Thus we see how the One is manifest in the Six, and how 
the One working in and through the Six produces the 
fulness of perfection and the "fulfilling of the law". The 
potentiality of all things is therefore in the One, the 
phenomenal manifestation in the Six. 



175 



CHAPTER XVII 
COSMIC ANALOGIES 

In a former chapter I have shown that the value of Pi = 
3.14159 is contained in the sum of an age, a year, and a 
day of Brahma. I am not in a position to prove that the 
ancient Hindus, in instituting these periods, had any idea 
whatsoever of the mathematical ratio of the diameter to 
the circumference of a circle, but I should be quite 
prepared to find that all their great periods were but 
multiples of some that are commonly observed in 
astronomy. 

It remains a singular fact that Kepler's law of the 
distance of the planets being regulated by their velocities 
so that they describe by their vectors equal areas in equal 
times, is in direct relations with the value Pi x a , which 
represents the area of a circle. Here we employ the value 
of 3.14159, and this, we have seen, is comprehended in 
the following periods: - 

Brahmic Age 3,1 10,400,000,000 years 

Brahmic Year 31,1 04,000,000 years 

Brahmic Day 86,400,000 years 



3,141,590,400,000 years 



176 



This seems to be directly related to the Hindu, conception 
of the ages already referred to as the Gold, Silver, 
Copper, and Iron Ages or Yugas, known as the Satya, 
Treta, Dvapara, and Kali Yugas respectively. For we find 
upon enumeration that they are of value as follows:- 

SatyaYuga 1,728,000 years. 

Treta Yuge 1,296,000 years 

Dvapara Yuga 864,000 years 

Kali Yuga 432,000 years. 

The total of these years is 4,320,000 solar years. 

The Brahmic Day therefore bears a definite relationship 
to the Dvapara Yuga and to the Satya Yuga. Also we 
observe that the half of the Great Year of Plato (25,920 
years) is 12,960 years, which is the one hundredth part of 
the Treta Yuga. So that there can be very little doubt that 
these astronomical periods of the ancients are all linked 
up together in such manner as to form a complete system 
of astronomical chronology. The difficulty is to trace 
them to their source. It is of course observed that they 
are formed on a numerical progression of 1234 =10, and 
that the sum of the four ages is 1 times the value of the 
first, as 432,000 and 4,320,000. This would be the case 
with any numerical series in the ratio of 1234. I think, 
however, that the basis of the system is to be found in 
the multiple of 72, that being the number of years in 
which the precession of the equinoxes amounts to one 
degree of the ecliptic. There are 60 minutes in 1 degree 
and 60 x 72 = 4320, which 



177 



gives us the basis of the yugas. Also 6 times 60 = 360, 
the number of degrees in the circle, and 6 times 4,320 = 
25,920, which is the Great Year. That which was know 
as the Naros of 600 years, during which one of the twelve 
manifestations of the Deity was presumed to rule on the 
Earth, gives us the value 600 x 12 = 7200 years, and 60 
times this is 432,000 years, which is the length of the 
Kali Yuga. These inquiries are extremely interesting to 
pursue. 

The ancients knew of a motion of the Earth's axis which 
had reference to the obliquity of the ecliptic, and they 
appear to have used these ages in order to indicate the 
times during which the pole of the Earth passed through a 
definite number of degrees. 

The belief is supported by the observations of various 
astronomers such as Herschel, Maskelyne, and others, 
who have shown that the diminution amounts to half a 
second per year of fifty seconds per century, and this is 
exactly one hundredth of the precession of the equinoxes. 

If therefore we take the progression of 1, 2, 3 times the 
value of twelve revolutions of the circle = 360 x 12, we 
shall get the basic value of the cycle 4320 years x 1, 2, 3, 
thus:- 

1 = 4,320 years 

2 = 8,640 years 

3 = 12,960 years 

Total 25,920 years 

which is the Great Year, the entire precessional 



178 



revolution and the value of six cycles of 4320 years. 
Therefore it appears that the number of the degrees in the 
circle multiplied by the number of the signs of the zodiac 
is equivalent to the Precessional Year or Great Year 
divided by six. 

There may possibly be other grounds for deriving the 
cycle first of all referred to, namely, the Brahmic Age, 
but the above appears to me to be the most likely, and the 
correspondences are too close to be overlooked even by 
those who have a scientifically educated dislike for 
"round figures". Nevertheless, so far as the precessional 
increment is concerned, there is nothing whatsoever to 
show that the present rate of precession is constant. It is 
estimated at 50.2453 seconds, but the records clearly 
show that it was formerly less than now. Probably a 
consideration of the true cause of precession will lead 
eventually to the fact that the variation is plus up to a 
certain point in the solar orbit and afterwards minus, and 
the mean will be fifty seconds exactly. 

This would answer exactly to the theory of Kepler, in 
which the elliptical orbit requires that the Sun has an 
aphelion and perihelion of its own, and that its motion in 
space is therefore variable, being greatest at the 
perihelion and least at the aphelion, as is the case with 
the planets of this system and also of the satellites. 

I do not consider that the ages of the ancients were the 
products of the imagination, but that they were invented 
from observation in the first place and afterwards 
augmented on speculative grounds. 



179 



For I have shown that there is a basis from which they 
could very well have originated, and this basis is an 
astronomical one. 

If the theory of the continuous change in the obliquity of 
the ecliptic, due to the Earth's gradual change of axial 
inclination, be true, it will follow that at one time the axis 
must have been in the plane of the orbit, and the polar 
regions would have marked alternations of summer and 
winter, such as the planet Mars now undergoes from the 
same cause, and the equatorial belt of the Earth must 
then have been one perpetual ice-belt. At the present 
time, when the axis is assuming the perpendicular, we 
get a more uniform distribution of the Sun's rays 
throughout the year over the whole surface of the globe; 
but the ideal condition from the point of view of 
haditability will be when the axis is quite vertical to the 
plane of the orbit, for then there will be no difference 
between summer and winter in any particular latitude. 

Another point of considerable interest is left out of 
account in the earlier pages of this work when citing 
Bode's Law (p. 72). The discussion of the point did not 
seem apposite to the matter immediately in hand, but it 
may here be dealt with in connection with the cosmical 
facts we are considering. 

The proportionate vectors of the planets, excepting 
Mercury, etc., are given on the basis of a progression of 
3(2 n " 2 ) + 4, from which we see that the Earth equals 10. 
Neptune is omitted from this series, but it may be added 
by doubling the figures 



180 



for Uranus and adding 4, thus 192 x 2 = 384, to which 4 
being added we get 388 as the value for Neptune. The 
actual distance of the body is usually given as 2760 
millions of miles from the Sun, and this would work out 
at 300 times the vector of the Earth. This clearly shows 
that Bode's Law is but an approximation which would 
work out if the sizes of the various bodies were 
proportionate to their velocities as these are to their 
distances from the centre. But Neptune is affected by 
Jupiter and Saturn as well as by Uranus, and the net 
result is that it is much nearer than is required by the law 
above cited. 

When, however, we come to consider the planet itself we 
find that it is in a state of chaos, not far removed from 
nebulosity, and so remote from the Sun as to be in these 
conditions quite uninhabitable unless we presume, as we 
certainly have cause to do, that it has a dense atmosphere, 
and therefore is capable of retaining the heat generated 
from itself. It would then only require that the bodies 
upon it should be tenuous and of small gravity, and there 
would then be nothing against its habitability. Indeed, it 
seems part of Nature's economy to continue to open up 
in space new centres of activity in preparation for the 
advent of man in proportion as the planets nearest the 
Sun become from their age and proximity to the Sun, 
gradually less suited to the habitation of man. 

On these grounds we have every reason to regard with 
respect the ancient Puranic concept of the Laya Centres 
or vortices from which the 



181 



worlds are evolved. The gamut of the solar system is 
raised a tone without the relativity of its parts being at all 
affected. It is even possible that the discarnate humanity 
of this system will find new habitations in the planets 
which are ex-Saturnian. Then Uranus will become the 
higher Mercury, or a repetition of Mercury's life an 
octave higher in the scale of things, and Neptune will 
thus be the higher Venus of our system and the habitat of 
the discarnate Venusians. The extra-Neptunian planet 
will, on this basis, become the future abiding place and 
seminary of the Earth's humanity, at a time when our 
planet is no longer habitable or fails to afford the 
requisite conditions for further evolution. The idea is not 
so fanciful as it looks. The seer of Patmos saw "a new 
heaven and a new earth" opened up before his exalted 
vision. We cannot otherwise regard these distant planets 
of our system than as latent centres of future activity and 
evolutionary progress, and as, so far as we know, both 
light and heat are necessary for the continuance of life, it 
is only reasonable to assume that by the time these 
planets are capable of sustaining life upon them they will 
be considerably nearer the Sun than they are now. But 
we speak of times that are immensely remote, but with 
which, as evolving monads, we shall probably be 
intimately concerned. At all events we have to regard 
these distant planets either as inhabited by a humanity 
physically adapted to the peculiar conditions they afford, 
or as seed-grounds for a future humanity. 



182 



We cannot regard them as purposeless, for there is no 
analogy from which to argue. 

Nature appears to indulge in these octaves. As a writer 
more than twenty years ago observed:- "When the first 
note of a new octave is evolved, man first begins to live". 
In the evolutional scale we have the several stages - 
igneous, gaseous, fluidic, mineral, vegetable, animal, and 
human. The eighth note is a repetition of the first, but on 
a higher gamut, and what in the primal stage of the 
Earth's evolution was the igneous life of the physical 
monad, here in the new scale is represented by the fusion 
of the spiritual monad with the higher forms of matter as 
comprised in the nervous organism of man. This union of 
the physical and spiritual monads constitutes that 
beginning of the new octave referred to above. What is 
known as the Uranian Age is now opening up to the 
world, and during its course of 2 1 60 years the seeds of a 
higher humanity will be sown in soil that is already 
prepared for it in the great intellectual areas of the world. 
This is the age of the "pouring out of the Spirit upon all 
flesh", represented zodiacally by the sign Aquarius. Out 
of the celectial seeding-ground represented by the "Milky 
Way" new suns will be evolved. But not in two thousand 
years can these future worlds evolve further than to form 
nucleoli. In man, however, already prepared for the 
inception of the seeds of a higher and more abundant 
spiritual growth, it may well be that the subsidiary cycle 
of the present race of humanity can give rise to a 



183 



tremendous output of extraordinary faculty and the 
realisation of social ideals and scientific attainments such 
as the world has not experienced at any time since the 
dawn of life upon this planet. 

For whereas there have been previous Uranian Ages in 
the course of the great solar cycles, at every return 
humanity is found at a successively higher stage of 
evolution, and therefore capable of responding in a 
higher degree to the impulses of the Spirit. In all there 
are 100 cycles or Great Years, amounting to 2,592,000 
years, during which a complete revolution is formed, 
and then a new direction is given to the axis of the Earth, 
bringing our globe into new relations with the 
circumambient stars. When we consider the fact that the 
furthest star in the confines of space is knit closely to our 
earth as to all other worlds throughout the vast 
empyrean, this new relativity of our world will be seen 
as the cause of a new evolution when " a new heaven 
and a new earth" may be said to be actually produced. 

These dreams of the ancient seers and philosophers will 
be found on examination to be grounded in astronomical 
facts. So great is their significance and so ingenious their 
conception, we cannot but be struck with the various 
discoveries, astronomical and geographical, which 
conspire to uphold them. From another point of view, the 
theory of new centres opening up in space as the march 
of human evolution in connection with cosmic changes 
seems to require, we have collateral proof of this, so far 



184 



as Uranus and Neptune are concerned, from the facts of 
astrology. In this system it is found that Uranus answers 
directly to intellectual genius of an inventive and original 
type, so that at times it appears that those who are 
affected by it are almost inspired. The planet is said to 
denote inventive genius, inspiration, inventive faculty, 
originality, eccentricity, a precocious and wayward mind. 
It answers to electrical energy in the physical world, and 
is typified by the lightning flash. 

Neptune, on the other hand, appears to be indicative of 
the artistic genius, and has special relation to rhythmic 
vibration, sense of harmony. The planet is prominent in 
the horoscopes of those who are aesthetically disposed, 
and a study of the characters of those born under its 
direct influence will reveal the fact that they answer to 
the planet Venus on a higher gamut. Undoubtedly there 
are as yet inadequate means for the full expression of 
these higher vibrations in the human organism, but to the 
extent to which they manifest they are unmistakably 
abnormal and even supernormal in their effects. 

Such being the case, we have every reason to regard 
these occult concepts with due respect, and to seek if 
possible a means of accommodating them to our scheme 
of thought in regard to human faculty. The effort of 
Nature to evolve special nervous conditions for the 
expression of these latent and higher faculties of the soul 
may give rise to an ill-considered association of 
abnormal 



185 



mental and psychic faculties with forms of insanity, 
when in fact they are only premonitory indications of a 
condition which in process of time will come to be 
regarded as normal. 

Viewed from the point of view of numerology, we 
exhaust our gamut at the number 7, and Uranus will 
therefore be 8 and Neptune 9. But these quantities will 
have to be applied to the planets Mercury 5 and Venus 6, 
to which they are octaves, and thus we have for Uranus 
8+5 = 13=4, and for Neptune 9+6 =15 = 6. This comes 
into line with the statement in the Secret Doctrine that 
Uranus is the same as the Sun, for which the latter is a 
substitute; and we have already seen that 4 is a number 
directly related to the Sun in the kabalistic system of 
numerology. Also we have seen that Mercury is the 
alternate of the Sun, which answers to the number 4, 
while here we have Uranus in terms of Mercury 
represented by 13 =4 vide Cosmic Symbolism, chap, 
xiv). 

As to Neptune, we find the ancient name for this god of 
the Greek pantheon was Poseidonis, and that the horse 
was his symbol; and further, that he was given the 
dominion of the seas, specifically the Mediterranean. He 
is symbolised as a creature having a horse's head and the 
body of a large fish, sometimes also as having the 
foreparts of a goat and the hind-part of a porpoise. The 
idea of the sea-horse suggests at once the two signs 
Pisces and Sagittarius, both ruled by Jupiter in the 
astrological system {Astrology, p.28), and for a long time 
Neptune has been associated by astrologers with the sign 
Pisces, 



186 



as Uranus with the sign Aquarius. 

Now Jupiter, as the ruler of the signs Pisces and 
Sagittarius, is of the value 3 in the kabalistic system, and 
this is the alternative of Venus 6 {Cosmic Symbolism). 
Then, if we regard Neptune as the higher Venus, we 
naturally associate him with the numbers 3 and 6, which 
are those of Jupiter and Venus. Also if we regard the 
planet Uranus as being the higher Mercury and this latter 
as the alternate of the Sun, then Leo, the sign ruled by the 
Sun, will find its negative in the opposite sign Aquarius, 
which is ruled by Uranus and here associated with the 
number 4, which hitherto has been regarded as the Sun's 
negative number. This opens up an entirely new system 
of enumeration, and we shall find that Sun = 1, Lilith = 2, 
Jupiter = 3, Uranus = 4, Mercury = 5, Venus = 6, Moon = 
7, Saturn = 8, Mars = 9, and Neptune, as the alternate of 
Jupiter and the higher Venus = 6. Here, however, we are 
on the horns of a dilemma, for we cannot regard Neptune 
and Venus as having the same value, but we may truely 
say that Venus = 6 and Neptune 9+6 =15. But in such 
case and to preserve the analogy we should have Mercury 
= 5 and Uranus 9+5 =14, which employs the two Sun 
numbers 1 and 4, and produces something that is yet 
quite distinct, but which, in its concrete expression, is 5. 
This seems the more reasonable, and consequently we 
have to regard our gamut as containing nine notes and 
not an octave merely. In such case we must 



187 



retain the negative value of the Sun = 4 and consider 
Uranus as of value 14. Thus:- 1 Sun, 2 Lilith, 3 Jupiter, 4 
Sun (negative), 5 Mercury, 6 Venus, 7 Moon, 8 Saturn, 9 

Mars, 14 Uranus, 15 Neptune. Here we see 

that Uranus and Neptune are raised a whole nonate by the 
addition of the number 9. This number stands for the 
planet Mars, and denotes the power of the will. The 
raising of humanity therefore is thus symbolised 
numerically as dependant on the exercise of the volitional 
faculty. Nothing can raise the mind except the will to be 
raised. The millennium could begin tomorrow if we 
willed it. Individual progress is controlled by the power 
of the individual will. The will to do, the will to be, these 
are the determining factors in all human evolution and 
the final factors in the process of natural selection. 

Atmane atmanam upasya, Raise the self by the self, is the 
mandate of Krishna, as of Buddha and all the great 

teachers. "Not everyone that saith but he that 

doeth " St Paul exhorts us to "work out our own 

salvation" and to become "a law unto ourselves". In The 
Light of Asia, bk.8, it is said:- Ho ! 

Ye suffer from yourselves, none else compels, 
None other holds you that ye lag and stay 
And whirl upon the wheel, and hug and kiss 
Its spokes of agony, its tyre of tears, 
Its nave of Nothingness ! 



188 



CHAPTER XVIII 
SOME RECONDITE PROBLEMS 

The idea involved in the preceding chapter is common to 
all religious systems, and consequently we may expect it 
to be reflected in any system of kabalism which has 
regard t the unfolding of human destiny this unfoldment 
is the natural means by which man draws near to the 
attainment of the "full stature of Christ", which, as we 
have seen, is kabalistically represented by the square of 
12, or 144, the enumeration of the name of the primal 
ancestor, or of that race of humanity which became 
"sons of God" by the inbreathing of the Spirit (Cosmic 
Symbolism, chap. i). What in the animal man is merely 
desire becomes in the Adamic race converted into will, 
and this same force of divine energy working in man 
will eventually bring him to a state where he is both 
mentally and physically capable of a fuller expression of 
the Spirit. 

Doubtless it is the fact that in the process of evolution 
each individual goes through the whole gamut of 
development from 1 to 9, i.e. from mere vital functioning 
to the expression of individual 



189 



will in its quest after freedom from limitation and 
bondage. But some study of particular cases in 
connection with the doctrine of spiritual hierarchies has 
led me to the conclusion that each individual is 
permanently related to some one spiritual hierarchy, 
which, through a dependency of states, spiritual, mental, 
and psychic, is ultimately expressed in a group of 
incarnations coming directly under the influence of some 
particular constellation, star, and planet. 

Thus the particular destiny comes to be controlled by the 
asterism which is rising at the time of one's birth, that 
under which a person is said to be born, and this asterism 
is related to a particular part of the Cosmic Man and 
answers to some specific function in the Cosmic Mind. 
And this may be taken as a partial explanation of 
Emerson's exhortation to "Hitch your wagon to a star", 
which is serviceable advice if you only know which one. 
It explains why a variety of individuals born under the 
direct influence of one of the planets are found to be 
altogether dissimilar in their tastes and pursuits, and 
different in their objective. For the planet is but one and 
the last of a series of screens through which the spiritual 
monad expresses itself in the process of incarnation. It 
thus becomes of greater importance to know what "star" 
one is born under than what planet. For the planets are 
but seven in number, or nine if we regard the luminaries 
as in the category of apparent planets, while the stars are 
innumerable, and together as celestial molecules 
constitute that Grand Man or Cosmic Body which 



190 



according to all mystical philosophers is the "vestment of 
God". 

In a true philosophical system of cosmogony we shall 
find that as Deity is expressed in Nature and Spirit in 
matter, so every physical atom is the expression of a 
spiritual atom, and thus there are two monads, the 
physical and the spiritual, the one working up through the 
various stages of physical evolution to the up building of 
the human form, and the other working downwards by a 
process of involution for final expression in the inspiring 
of the human form. The union of the two monads is the 
supreme fact of the alchemy of the soul, and the process 
of their fusing and complete interaction is represented in 
the unfolding of individual consciousness and the 
establishing of the will to be and the will to do in man. 
Until this union was effected it could not be said that the 
human soul existed in the man-form or human animal, 
for the psyche is the child of Spirit and Matter. Traced to 
their source, these two, Spirit and Matter, must be 
regarded as essentially one, although in some systems of 
speculative philosophy the one (Matter) is regarded as a 
reflection of the other. 

In developing these ideas I am but extending the 
cosmical conceptions of Bruno into the realm of the true 
Kabala. We observe one cosmic energy or life working 
through a variety of states of matter to the production of 
various kinds of forces, and we understand that 
essentially all matter is identical, but apparently different 
by reason of a variety of characteristics produced in 



191 



the process known as differentiation. The various stages 
at which energy is arrested by matter appear to answer to 
states of consciousness in man, for all consciousness 
appears to be the result of resistance. Individual 
consciousness or what is called self-consciousness is thus 
the product of the incarnation of the monad. If we take an 
etheric vibration or an electric current and set up 
resistance to it we shall get light as the result. By slowing 
this down again we get a partial conversion into heat, 
and by further resistance we institute the phenomenon of 
combustion. The descent of the monad through the 
successive planes of matter thus gives rise to successive 
states of consciousness from the various degrees of 
resistance set up by the material conditions through 
which it passes. The physical body of man and the 
cosmic body of the universe thus represent resistance 
coils of the greatest power, and it is therefore in its 
associations with gross matter that the centre of spiritual 
energy we call the monad is capable of elaborating the 
degree of consciousness and the forms of intelligence 
which relate it to the material world. Thus it is that 
Vulcan = Mars = Will, is both the desire that tends to the 
forging of our material bonds and also the volition 
necessary for our release from those shackes. And we see 
that Saturn 8, the symbol of restriction, is the cause of 
transition to Jupiter 3, which is the symbol of expansion, 
and finally to 9 Mars, which is freedom. 

There arises another point of some interest both 



192 



astronomical and kabalistic, which I have incidentally 
referred to in the foregoing chapter, where the numbers 
allotted to the planets require that 2 is the value of Lilith. 
To many of my readers this name will be unfamiliar, and 
I may therefore explain that among the Kabalists there is 
a tradition that Lilith was the first wife of Adam, who 
was changed into a night spectre in consequence of her 
refractory conduct. She is described as especially 
inimical to women and children, and from all accounts 
appears somewhat akin to the hag known as the 
Banshee, the apparition of whom in any house is certain 
disaster to its occupants. 

Cosmically Lilith is the second or rather the first satellite 
of the Earth (Adam), and is no longer a luminous body, 
but revolves still about the Earth in an orbit at a mean 
distance of 1,040,000 miles in 119 days. Proctor in his 
Other Worlds than Ours asserts that in his opinion there 
is every reason to believe that there are myriads of these 
dead and non-luminous bodies floating about in space, 
any one of which may be the occasion sooner or later of 
a vast cosmic cataclysm as the result of a collision. The 
satellite Lilith is only visible to us under certain 
conditions, namely, when at a particular angular distance 
or elongation from the Sun and at the time of its transit 
over the disc. From observations made by Waltemath of 
Hamburg and various records both before and since his 
discovery, we are able to establish the synodical 
revolution of the planet as 177 days. Thus there is 
recorded a transit of a black spot over the disc 



193 



of the Sun on 27 th March 1720, by Dr Alischer at Fauer; 
another in the following year by the same observer on the 
15 th March; another at St Neots, Huntingdon, on the 6 th 
June 1761, recorded by a writer in the London Chronicle; 
another seen by Lichtenberg and Sollnitz on 19 th 
November 1762; another by Hoffman near Gotha on 3 rd 
May 1764; another by Supt. Fritsch at Quedlinburg on 
25 th March 1784, recorded in Bode's Astron. Alk, 1805; 
another by Dr Ritter, of Hanover, on 11 th June 1855; 
another by Gowey on the 4 th September 1879 at 
N.Lewisburg, Ohio; another on 4 th February 1898 at 1.30 
p.m., seen by Dr. Zeigler and eleven other persons, and 
seen at Wiesbaden on the same day at 8.15 a.m.; another 
on the 4 th February 1898. Now, as we cannot accuse these 
several authorities of aberration or conspiracy, we are 
bound to accept their statements as veridical. A cursory 
examination will show that every one of these dates of 
transits are separated by a period of 177 days to within a 
few hours. Then, as the motion of the Sun will be about 
174 degrees in the same period, the satellite will have 
travelled 360 + 174 = 534 degrees in 177 days, which 
gives its mean diurnal motion as about 3 degrees and its 
revolution as 119 days. Retrogressive computation 
shows that the satellite should have been in conjunction 
with the Sun on the 13 th September 1618; and 11 days 
before this Riccioli, as recorded in the Almagestum 
Novum, vol. ii. p. 16, saw a fiery red globe to the west of 
the Sun. Cassini the elder and Maraldi saw the transit on 
the 7 th November in the year 1700, 



194 



and it was seen again in Hungary on the 23 rd December 
1719, like a red sun with a white line across it. 



If the Moon, an old and worn-out body, still perseveres in 
its orbit, there seems no reason why other bodies more 
remote from us should not have persisted. It is altogether 
probable that as the Moon is now receding from the 
Earth, so formerly the further satellite was much nearer 
the Earth than now; and indeed the suggestion may be 
hazarded that even before the Moon was in the position 
of a prime luminary to our globe Lilith may have been 
functioning in that capacity. We have only to assume, as 
I think we may, that the Sun has a direct pull on the body 
somewhat greater than that of the Earth, and we at once 
see that at the conjunction, when the satellite is between 
the Sun and the Earth, the former pulls it a little out of its 
course, so that at no successive revolution does it return 
to the same relative position as regards our globe, but is 
always being urged towards a wider orbit and a 
commensurately slower velocity as required by Kepler's 
law. This is found to be the case in regard to the Moon, 
and it must be so in regard to any other satellite of the 
Earth. Possibly Lilith held the same or similar relations to 
the Earth in a former period of activity (manvantara) as 
the Moon does in the present period of our terrene life. 
For it is not believed, at all events by the Kabalists, that 
this is by any means the first period of life through 
which the Earth has passed, but that it has had 
successive periods of alternate 



195 



activity and quiescence (manvantaras and pralayas), and 
emerged from its last long sleep about eighteen and a half 
million years ago. I have stated the case briefly in the 
opening chapter of Cosmic Symbolism, and need not 
therefore discuss the grounds of this belief again. Enough 
has been said to institute a basis for the enumeration of 
Lilith, which for various reasons may be regarded as of 
value 2, in contrast and complement to the Moon = 7, 
which has already been established. 

Speaking of the Sun and Moon as the male and female 
symbols of cosmos in relation to the humanity of this 
globe, we are reminded that a wider interpretation was 
given to this symbolism by substituting the Earth as 
mother in place of the Moon. This leaves out of 
consideration the moot question as to the origin of the 
Moon. It is at present our satellite. That it was always so 
does not transpire from any astronomical evidence, and I 
shall not say that they are wrong who assert that the 
Moon was mother of the Earth and not the contrary. The 
fact that at the present time our globe is estimated to be 
about fourteen times larger than the Moon proves nothing 
as to seniority, for we know that the Moon is a dead 
world, or at least a sleeping one, and that it has gone 
through a process of shrinkage during the course of ages 
which has left it a mere remnant of what it once was. We 
are, of course, astronomically aware of the fact that the 
Moon has for many ages been receding from the Earth; 
and we also know that it has reached absolute zero in its 
axial rotation, which shows 



196 



that its vitality is at lowest ebb. If it were to rotate slower 
than now - and it makes exactly one rotation while it 
revolves around the Earth it would appear to rotate from 
West to East upon its axis, contrary to its present motion, 
and we should have the gradual revelation of a thing as 
yet unbeholden, the other side of the Moon ! 

On the other hand, if the Moon were suddenly caught in 
one of those great cosmic streams of energy which Sir 
Hiram Maxim speaks of with such remarkable intuition, 
the Moon's rotation on its axis would immediately be 
accelerated, the planet would begin to live again, and, 
roused from its long slumber, it would enter upon a new 
day of activity and development. The evolution of new 
forms of life would begin anew, and the now barren 
globe would in process of time become a centre of 
teeming life. Who knows how long this catalepsy may 
last, or how soon the sleeper may awaken? But awake or 
asleep it is regarded by the Kabalists as the mother of our 
world, and it holds true among astrologers that "the Sun 
is the father and the Moon the mother of every mundane 
event". 



197 



CHAPTER XIX 
GOD GEOMETRISES 

When Goethe called architecture "frozen music" he was 
impressed by the same idea as that which caused Plato to 
define the Deity as the Great Geometer. 

Whether we view a noble edifice, a magnificient 
landscape, or the vast canopy of heaven "studded o'er 
with gold", we are looking at concrete thought. The 
universe has been variously described as "the vestment of 
God", the "bodying-forth of divine Thought", and 
"divine Ideation in expression of form". The day of belief 
in the fortuitous concurrence of atoms is now far gone 
and possibly will never return to the human mind in quite 
the same positive form. Science has made vast strides 
towards the theological position, and philosophy in the 
middle ground between them is seen to be making 
discreet but unmistakable advances towards the argument 
from design. The more we learn of the laws of the 
universe around us the more evident to our minds does 
the design and purpose of creation become, the more 
acceptable the idea of a beneficent Creator. A man 
cannot be intimate 



198 



with Nature, or study the laws of matter closely, without 
finally swerving to a belief in an Intelligence at the back 
of things. Everywhere on all sides, and in an almost 
infinite variety of forms, he beholds the Trinity of Life, 
Substance, and Intelligence expressed as force, matter, 
and consciousness. In the mutual attraction of molecules, 
in chemical combinations, in the building up of cells into 
tissue and organisms by assimilation of inorganic matter, 
he sees elective affinity and the operation of a magic 
which he does not understand. He does not pretend to 
know what is the nature of that interpreter which converts 
inorganic into organic matter, still less what it is that 
renders an organism the vehicle of an intelligent will. He 
observes, however, that faculty, function, and instrument 
are immediately related. He may have a conception of 
life apart from any particular form that lives, but there is 
no possible conception of embodied life apart from 
function, and function implies faculty, which is not 
merely an expression of life but also of a living 
intelligence. It is perhaps hardly conceivable that one 
should have even a broad idea of the laws of life and the 
constitution of the cosmos and not regard those laws and 
that studied order of evolution as in some intimate 
relations with an Intelligence of a supreme nature, and as 
a partial expression at least of such an Intelligence. The 
question then arises as to the means of this expression. It 
is implied in the terms "law" and "cosmos". 

The terms are correlative. According to Leibnitz 



199 



there could be no cosmos apart from pre-established 
harmony, which harmony is the effect of intelligence in 
operation. Then we have Intelligence as faculty, 
Cosmical Evolution as function, and Cosmos as 
instrument. All that is possibly knowable to us as 
sublunary creatures concerning that Intelligence as 
faculty, is to be learned from a study of cosmical 
functions and the world about us. 

The universe is not in itself a plenary expression of an 
Infinite Intelligence or Omniscient Being. It is not an 
infinite universe; on the contrary, it is in itself a 
comparatively small one, and our Sun, which is its 
gravitational centre, is a star of no great magnitude. It is, 
moreover, a satellite, answering to a gravitational pull 
from a greater focal centre in the confines of space. The 
solar system has an orbit, and, from the view-point of 
Plato, the Sun takes 25,920 years to complete its 
revolution. If we take the mean precession of the 
equinoxes, 50" per year, and divide it into 360 degrees, 
we shall have 25,920 years, which is the Great Year 
referred to by the great philosopher. It is suggested that 
the proper motion of the Sun in space is the true cause of 
the phenomenon known as precession. If this be so, and I 
see nothing against it, although I am aware it is not the 
argument used by modern astronomers, then the distance 
of the Sun from its gravitational centre is calculable in 
terms of a mean vector. We know nothing, of course, of 
the eccentricity of its orbit, but we know from 
observations extending from Hippararchus, through 
Ptolemy, to Copernicus and Kepler, and continued by 
modern astronomers. 



200 



that the solar system is moving in the direction of the 
constellation Hercules, the stars of which are opening 
out, while the stars in Gemini are closing in. 

Leaving the consideration of these higher and more 
speculative astronomical problems to others, we may 
consider the bearing of the main facts of astronomy upon 
the kabala of numbers. We have already seen that the 
universe is only intelligible because it is an expression of 
Intelligence. Its intelligibility lies in the fact that it 
responds to the law of numbers, whence we may argue 
that numbers are the means employed for the expression 
of the Divine Intelligence. The facts fully maintain this 
view. 

A planet moves in an orbit about the Sun at a mean 
distance determined by its mass, volume, and magnitude. 
Its velocity, or mean motion, in its orbit depends again on 
its mean distance, and its revolution or periodic time is 
dependant on its velocity. The whole mechanism is 
unified by the law of Kepler, which requires that the 
planets describes equal areas in equal times by their 
motions round the Sun, and hence it follows that the 
squares of the periodic times of the planets are to each 
other as the cubes of their mean distances from the Sun. 

From this we see that the universe itself is governed by 
mechanical laws which are intelligible, and therefore are 
expressions of Intelligence. We see, also, that this 
Intelligence is expressed in terms of numbers, which we 
use to signify quantative relations. The same ordered and 
intelligible 



201 



relationship may be observed in regard to the properties 
of the elements, chemical combinations, crystallisation, 
etc. The phenomena of light and sound, as developed in 
colour, art, and music, contribute to the same testimony, 
while telegraphy has quite recently given us a new view 
of the finer forces of Nature in the phenomena of 
syntonic vibration. 

There is, indeed, no coherent view of the forces of Nature 
apart from an ascription of intelligence behind them. 

It is only when we come to the symbolical use of 
numbers that we are faced with any degree of difficulty. 
If the Kabalist gives a characteristic to a number, he is in 
the position of one who has no other argument than that 
derived by experience. He cannot tell you why 9 should 
be an incisive number, or why it should signify cutting, 
wounding, severance, strife, sharp words, or a sword, but 
he can link it up with the planet Mars and the colour red 
by a symbolism which is mainly dependent on its 
universality. But this universality is in itself the strongest 
argument in favour of its recognition. If it were an 
isolated experience, or one that depended wholly on 
tradition, then we should have good reason to question 
its truth. The symbologist is, however, supported by the 
empirics of all nations; for whether as the Chinese Ho- 
sing, the Persian Marduk, the Chaldean Coah, the Coptic 
Kham, the Greek Vulcan, the Indian Angarika, or the 
Latin Mars, the same planetary body has the same 
characteristics ascribed to it. Adam, the perfect man, 



202 



made in the image and likeness of the Elohim, is 
enumerated thus: Ia4d4m = 144 = 9. Adam means red. It 
is also the Hebrew number of "the fulness of stature", or 
12 x 12. It is, of course, only a convenient symbolism 
which connects the number 9 with this planet; but, 
inasmuch as the whole universe is a symbol of that 
Intelligence which created and sustains it, we have no 
cause to quarrel with the Kabalist when he, in common 
with the scientist, avails himself of its convenience. It 
appears rather an advantage to designate a characteristic 
by a number, when the language or symbolism of 
numbers is known; as if, by the physiognomy of a man, 
he should be described as one of much combativeness, it 
would be convenient to say that his characteristic is 9; or 
that one of much joviality, bonhomie, and expansiveness 
should be characterised by 3; as convenient, indeed, as 
the geometrical formula Pi x a for the area of a circle, 
or H 2 S0 4 for sulphuric acid. 

The point we have to bear in mind in all these 
speculations is that there is a geometry in nature which is 
discoverable and cognisable, but which exists quite apart 
from our recognition of it. It is not a feature imposed 
upon it by our laws of thought, but, on the contrary, our 
laws of thought are determined by it; and this seems to 
be the reason why the whole of our being, the incident 
of our lives, and our relations to the external world, 
answer to a numerical law. 

When, therefore, we say that "God geometrises", we 
mean something more than the mere observance 



203 



of geometrical law in the creation and ordering of the 
cosmos; we intend also the imposing of a geometrical 
law of thought upon humanity. Our concepts are those of 
Unity, our thought is in terms of the Triad, our 
perceptions answer to the Septenate. We are compounded 
of universal elements, and respond at all points of our 
being to the geometrical ratios of an elemental life. But 
also we are more than elemental beings, and potentially 
greater than the universe in which we exist; for we are in 
a conspiracy of thought with the divine, taking 
knowledge of the gods as we are able to understand their 
language, learning to use the elements and the forces of 
nature, and entering freely into the scheme of our own 
conscious evolution and unfoldment. 

And if, in the endeavour to penetrate some of the more 
subtle mysteries which encircle our lives, the Kabalist 
makes trial of the numerical key, he has, at least, the 
sanction of those who are learned in the cryptography 
and symbolism of Oriental writings as well as the 
authority of traditional practice; and should he succeed in 
opening even one of the seven portals which guard the 
Temple of Truth, he may account himself as fortunate 
beyond those who merely stand outside and take note 
only of the external lineaments of the edifice, not caring 
what great treasures may be displayed within. 



204 



