
Full text of "Astrology of the Seers - David Frawley (Sri Vamadeva Shastri)"
See other formats






THE ASTROLOGY 

OF s EER S 


A COMPREHENSIVE GUIDE 
TO VEDIC ASTROLOGY 
By David Frawley • 


MOTILAL BANARSIDASS PUBLISHERS 
PRIVATE LIMITED . DELHI 


£7 'HxjxrlxmjjCjgJ. ( EJhjjj£J±A. 



_ CONTENTS _ 

Foreword 

Preface 

PARTI: The Astrology of the Seers 

Towards a New Vision of Astrology 

The Original Science; The Science of Time; 
The Planets and the Gods; Astrology as a 
Spiritual Science; Vedic Science; Vedic 
Astrology; The Four Aims of Life 
Astrology East and West 

The l\vo Zodiacs; The Controversy Between 
the Two Zodiacs; Orientation of the Sidereal 
Zodiac; Solar and Cosmic Astrology; 
Ayanamsha; How to Calculate the Vedic Chart 
The World-Ages or Cycles of the Yugas 

The Lesser Cycle; The Greater Cycle; Cycles 
of Humanity; Ascending and Descending 
Cycles; Beyond Time; Harmonization with 
the Galactic Center; The Star Vega 

PART II: The Methodology of 
Vedic Astrology 

The Planets 

The Great Cosmic Signiflcators 

Sequence; Numerology; Order; Qualities; 
Elements; Attributes and Actions; Indicators; 
Planets as Benefic or Malefic; Dispositorship; 
Descriptions of the Planets: Sun, Moon, Mars, 
Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn; The Lunar 
Nodes: In Western Astrology, In Vedic Astrol¬ 
ogy, The Negative Sun and Negative Moon, 
Positive Sides of Nodes; Uranus, 

Neptune and Pluto 

The Signs 

How Planets D-ansmit the Influencess of the Stars 
Sign Rulership; Odd and Even Signs; Signs by 
Quality; Qualities of the Planets; Signs and 
the Elements; Examining Elements in the 



8 The Astrology of the Seers 

Chart; Uses of Signs; Description of the 
Signs; Exaltation and Debility; Mulatrikona; 

Detriment; Planetary Relationships; Planetary 
Significators; The 27 Lunar Constellations 

3. The Houses 

The Domains of Planetary Action 135 

Analogy to the Signs; Different Systems of 
House Determination; Houses by Quality and 
Element; Basic Meaning of Houses; House 
Correlation; House Significators; Lords of 
Houses; Laws of House Rulership; Indicators 

4. Planetary Aspects and Combinations 167 

Aspects in Western Astrology; Aspects by 
Sign; Special Aspects; Aspects East and West, - 
A Comparative View; Major Aspects; 

Sambandha; Conjunction; All Aspects; Com¬ 
bust; Planetary War; Hemming in of Planets; 

Separative Planets; Retrograde; Planetary 
Yogas; Kuja Dosha; Shadbala 

5. Harmonic Charts 

Patterns of Astrological Intricacy 185 

Calculation, Meaning and Usage 

6. Planetary Periods 

Determining Planetary Influences Through Time 197 

How to Determine; How to Use; Background 
Tiansits; Planetary Returns; Use of Period 
Lords: Determination of Favorable Periods 
and Times; Planetary Hours; Horary Astrology 

PART III: Astrology, Healing and 
TVansformation 

1. Medical Astrology 209 

Ayurveda and Astrology; Medical Astrology; 

The Three Humors; Air Types; Fire Types; 

Water Types; Humors and Elements; Humors 
and Signs; Determining Constitution Astrolog- 
ically; Disease-Causing Planets; Sign-House 
Correspondences; The Sixth House and Sixth 
Sign 

2. Astrology and Psychology 221 

Psychological Indicators of Planets 


^7#if/<rZcmZc.a/ WfLiuthS. 



Contents 


9 


J . 

3. Yogic Astrology 229 

The Planets and the Chakras; The Chakras 
and Planetary Exaltation; The Chakras and the 
Houses 

4. Treatment Methods in Astrology 

Balancing the Influences of the Planets 235 

The Use of Gems, Colors, Herbs, Mantras, 

Meditation; Sun; Moon; Mars; Mercury; Jupi¬ 
ter; Venus; Saturn; Rahu; Ketu 

5. Worship and Meditation on the Planets 261 

Deities; Forms of Planetary Deities; Other 
Forms, Grains, Gems; Symbols; Directions; 

Yantras 

PART IV: Vedic Astrology in Practice 

1. Example Charts 271 

PART V: Appendices 

1. Sanskrit Glossary 324 

2. English Glossary 328 

3. Bibliography 330 

Index 335 

ILLUSTRATIONS 

SuryaYantra 10 

The Sun 13 

The Moon 20 

Mars 66 

Mercury 166 

Jupiter 184 

Venus 208 

Saturn 234 

Rahu 270 

Ketu 322 


^HjcLctIaJTLLC-€lL ( U~U-Uj£j+.±. 


r 


10 


The Astrology of the Seers 



SURYAYANTRA 




£7 'MxixrlxrnicjCLL ( EJU-u4JlA. 





FOREWORD 


By Ingrid Nairoan 

It was with great joy that I accepted the invitation to write this 
foreword for The Astrology of The Seers by my respected colleague and 
valued friend, Dr. David Frawley. Dr. Frawley is a Pundit with a special 
talent for not only returning to the source but bringing back the nectar in 
its pure form. In the years since our paths first crossed in this life-time, I 
have been gifted to imbibe many, many hours of the flood of wisdom 
which this exceptional young scholar of ancient Eastern teachings has 
brought back to share with us. Dr. Frawley and I have often discussed 
Vedic knowledge, hymns to the Gods, healing, herbology and astrology. 
He is in his own right a poet, doctor, and wise counselor whose advice is 
not only entirely spiritual but also practical as well. With others, one might 
expect the reverse: an occasional insight into destiny, karma, or divine 
harmony, but with Dr. Frawley, his normal focus is heavenly. 

Idea, in the highest sense is always not only simply clear but whole. 
It is also inspired and inspiring, holy, and complete. At the Source, there 
is integrity and the realization that there is a deep logic to the Ways of the 
Universe and a total coherence to the Divine Idea even if it becomes 
contorted in manifestation. It is this contortion which causes the pain, the 
suffering, the karma if you will, of our incarnate existences. If, however, 
we were to know the motivation behind the projection of thought or 
Divine Idea into form, we might be better able conform to it. This is the 
ultimate purpose of astrological study and counseling. However, it takes 
a special pilgrim to reach the Source and a devoted soul to sit there and 
return with a heart and mind full of wisdom to shower on the thirsty 
seekers who have yet to experience the mystery of the Original Idea. Dr. 
Frawley is just such a person. He epitomizes the ancient disciple whose 
heart is filled with reverence for the sages who left humanity the legacy 
he has sought to restore to its proper place in the modem world. In the 
meantime, he upholds the laws of simplicity in his personal life. The result 
is that he is able to fill his cup in such a way that there is a minimum of 
distortion and maximum of clarity in the bounty he has brought forth to 
share with you, the reader of this and his other writings. 

In my own work, I have chosen to practice Western astrology, not out 
of any belief in its superiority or greater applicability to contemporary 


£7 'MxjxrlxrnlcjtLL tf^iuLh.A. 



12 


The Astrology of the Seers 


persons. Rather, it was simply a matter of chance that my entire exposure 
to astrology since a small child was to Western astrology. Sidereal 
astrology remained more or less an unknown to me until this book. It is 
my hope that The Astrology of The Seers will relieve the haze of ignorance 
for many other astrologers besides myself as there is a richness to the 
Vedic tradition which has been all but lost to the West — whose recent 
tendency it has been to mimic trends in psychology rather than abiding 
Cosmic Laws which do not submit either to fashion or human influence. 
This book therefore serves not simply to expose the reader to a system of 
astrology which, in the West, has not enjoyed the popularity it deserves 
but it also focuses our attention on the purity at the core of our tradition. 
It is this unblemished astrological knowledge that is our true heritage and 
which we are now at liberty to claim and cherish as our proper legacy. 

The reader with quickly find that Dr. Frawley’s writing is neither 
superficial nor convoluted. He does not conceal mysteries with allusions 
as do many writers. Rather, he writes in a nearly disarmingly straightfor¬ 
ward style, which can easily be taken as matter of fact. Do not be deceived. 
His style is obviously the direct result of the clarity of his own understand¬ 
ing, but others may need to read and reread his writings before capturing 
the wealth that is contained in his gifts. 

It is my prediction that this book will be consulted for many centuries 
to come, so may we welcome you to pour through its pages and savor its 
wisdom. Blessings to you. 

Ingrid Naiman, M.D., M.A. 

Santa Fe, September 1990 


^7#if/<rZcm.Zc.a/ 



The Sun 


ivKlNA /[ J 1J 



“Standing on a lotus, with the lustre of 
a red lotus, who has two arms, with a lotus 
in his hand, the creator of the day, the 
teacher of the world, whose vehicle is a 
horse with seven heads, with a ruby crest 
jewel on his head, making the gesture that 
gives boons, may the Divine Sun ever grant 
us his grace. 




^MjdxHxmJLcjaL ( EJhju£JlA. 



PREFACE 


The Astrology of the Seers is a presentation of Vedic astrology, the 
traditional astrology of India. This system — also called Hindu astrology 
or “Jyotish,” the science of light — has been used by the seers, sages and 
yogis of greater India since ancient times. It is aligned with both Hindu 
and Buddhist teachings and is an integral part of the science of Yoga and 
meditation. 

The Astrology of the Seers endeavors to explain this system in clear 
and modem terms. At the same time it tries to present Vedic astrology in 
a new way and as relating more specifically to spiritual astrology, which 
is its original basis. It is an approach to astrology as a discipline of cosmic 
knowledge and self-knowledge; the former naturally leads to and finds its 
culmination in the latter. 

The Astrology of the Seers attempts to give astrology a spiritual 
background in the classical eastern or yogic sense. This is to use it as a 
means for the liberation of the spirit. It is not to further encumber astrology 
with vague mystifications and a hypnotic occult language, nor to orient it 
further toward the glorification of famous personalities. It is to bring out 
the light of truth hidden behind the stars and their influences. 

This approach acknowledges the scope of astrology as encompassing 
all domains of life, spiritual and mundane, but sees the development of 
an integral cosmic and self-awareness as its central focus and ultimate 
goal. As such, it endeavors to reestablish astrology as the great and 
profound science it once was and should again be. It is to take astrology 
out of the mundane world and superficial thought and back into the 
sanctuary of the heart. For astrology this is also a return to its origins in 
the vision of the seers and sages who first gave it birth. It is a return from 
West to East, as astrology originated from the wisdom of the astrologers 
and seers of the ancient orient. 

The Astrology of the Seers is based upon and reflects an extensive 
study of the Vedas, the ancient scriptures of India, which I have been 
engaged in for nearly twenty years, as well as an examination of the 
spiritual teachings of Yoga. This study includes Ayurveda, the traditional 
medical system of India, as in my books Ayurvedic Healing and The Yoga 
of Herbs. I have tried to outline the basic system of Vedic Science in From 
the River of Heaven: Hindu and Vedic Knowledge For the Modern Age. 


1 MjcLo4xjtijjcjclL SI^lujLIlA. 



16 The Astrology of the Seers 

It is not the purpose here to simply propagate Vedic astrology in the 
West. Nor is it to say that Vedic astrology as it is practiced in India today 
is the ideal to be emulated throughout the world. Vedic astrology also 
needs to be modernized, readapted and, above all, brought back into a 
more spiritual focus. We need not scale it down according to the materi¬ 
alistic bias of the modem mind, yet we do need to put it in a clear and 
understandable language for the global consciousness emerging today. It 
is the same project that is necessary for astrology as a whole. 

Nor do we mean to say that books on Vedic astrology, such as we find 
in India today, can be used by us in the West as they are. Though the ideas 
and basic principles may be right, their language can be rigid, stereotyped 
and culturally limited in the cast of the medieval mind, like Western 
astrological books of that era. Very few people here can understand such 
books, though hopefully after reading this book they may easier be able 
to do so. The effort here is to try to bring out the universal knowledge 
inherent in the Vedic system, which is relevant and useful to all. This will 
neither distort the true tradition, the tradition of truth, nor seal it in some 
inaccessible form. 

The purpose of this book is not just to take us back to where astrology 
came from. It is not to go backward or to merely worship the past as our 
highest achievement. It is to return to the origin for purposes of a new 
birth. This is the birth of a spiritual science of astrology based on a global 
perspective which goes beyond the limitations of traditional cultures. We 
return to the beginning in order to go beyond the end. We go back to the 
source and center, in order to establish a new and wider periphery. 

“Veda” literally means wisdom — the knowledge of truth — which 
is based upon direct perception. It is not theoretical knowledge but the 
truth that comes to the individual in the state of pure consciousness. It 
means universal knowledge, not the dogma or opinion of any group. 

Vedic astrology has many branches and subsystems and allows for a 
great diversity of approaches. Vedic knowledge itself is based on the 
freedom and creative intelligence of the individual being. Hence, every 
true practitioner of it will have his or her own particular version of it. The 
Vedic tradition is the tradition of the creative adaptation of eternal wisdom. 
Those who put limits on it, reduce it to one approach only, or claim 
authority over it, deny its very basis. Hence, the reader is asked to examine 
this knowledge critically to see if it works and to apply it creatively in his 
or her own self-unfoldment. This is the real test of its validity. 

We can no longer recognize any real divisions in humanity in terms 
of time, place, culture, religion, race, sex or other such superficial distinc¬ 
tions. These are, as one great Yogi said, as childish as classifying people 
according to the different types of shoes they wear. There is only one truth. 


£7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. ( EJU-il£IlA. 



Preface 17 

one world, and one self — without limitation. Yet this one truth is not rigid 
or limited, but open, creative, universal and all-encompassing. Seeing it, 
we realize that all truth, all religion, all art and science is ours. It belongs 
to us to use creatively for the development of our own deeper understand¬ 
ing in life. TVuth is like the Sun that rises every day impartially over all, 
like the life-force that moves with every breath. It is to the light of truth 
enshrined outwardly in the Sun and inwardly within our own hearts that 
this book is oriented. It is therefore requested that the reader apply the 
knowledge given here with the same vision and creativity which inspired 
it. 

For those with a background in Western and Thopical astrology, The 
Astrology of the Seers will be like looking at astrology anew. Just as there 
are different systems of medicine, so are there different systems of 
astrology. There is no final way of finding order and harmony in die 
cosmos. Those with no background in astrology need not worry; the basics 
of the system have been presented and no prior knowledge of astrology 
is required. 

Some readers may find this system of astrology to be difficult and 
mysterious. This is no different than how such ideas as karma and rebirth 
or the practice of Yoga have been unusual at first to the Western mind but 
can be understood by it in time. It just requires a little patience and 
contemplation, a willingness to open up to a new w'ay of looking at things. 

Some may have heard or read a little about Hindu astrology and found 
it hard to understand. This again may be more of a language problem 
rather than this system of astrology being harder to grasp than any other. 
If we were trying to read the old astrological texts of Europe — equally 
not adapted to the modem mind or language — they would also appear 
strange. 

Others may have heard that Hindu astrology is purely mundane, 
unspiritual or psychologically unsophisticated. This conception is simi¬ 
larly a failure to get to the essence of it. It can have much predictive 
accuracy on a mundane level but it can also clearly indicate our spiritual 
path in life and our karma as a soul. It is part of a system of spiritual 
knowledge, not just a materialistic or occult science. Unfortunately in the 
modem world, even in India, there is more interest in the mundane side 
of astrology than the spiritual side. Hence, the reader is asked to embark 
on this book as a new adventure, not to confirm our existing opinions and 
conclusions but to afford a new way of looking at things — perhaps a 
doorway into the infinite. 

Much of the material for this book came from my Vedic Astrology 
Correspondence Course, first written in 1986. I have rewritten and ex¬ 
panded the course and use this book as a text for it. In the course I also go 


£7 'MxjxrlxrnlcjtLL 



18 The Astrology of the Seers 

• * nt ° more detail about such factors as the Nakshatras or lunar asterisms, 
which are too complicated to give in the present volume. 

I would like to express my appreciation to the Vedic astrologers J.N. 
Bfyasin and B.V. Raman, whose books opened the doors of this system to 
me, and to Sri Yukteswar, whose Holy Science first revealed to me its 
spiritual and cosmological relevance. I give a special thanks to Ingrid 
Naimen, a profound western astrologer, who has supported me in my 
work, particularly in the astrology of healing. 

David Ffawley 
Santa Fe, New Mexico 
June 1990 


^MjdxHxruJLcjaL ( EJhju£JlA. 



PARTI 


THE ASTROLOGY OF THE SEERS 



The Moon 



“Clothed in white, white in lustre, 
whose ornaments are white, who has two 
arms, with a lotus in his hand, whose soul 
is immortal, who is a yogi, whose vehicle 
is a deer, with a pearl crest jewel on his 
head, making the gesture that gives boons, 
may the Divine Moon ever grant us his 
grace. ” 


1 

TOWARDS A NEW VISION _ 

OF ASTROLOGY 

THE ORIGINAL SCIENCE 

Astrology is without doubt the original science, the oldest of the 
systems of knowledge devised by human beings. It was the most important 
of the sciences of human culture until the advent of modem science. 
Astrology was the basis for the first cosmologies, through which the 
ancients comprehended the structure and movement of the universe. It 
was the science of fate or destiny, used for understanding events on earth, 
which were seen as originating in the heavens. Astrology was not only 
the foremost of the outer sciences which deal with the nature of the 
physical universe, it was one of the most important of the inner or spiritual 
sciences which deal with the mind and soul. 

Astrology shows the cosmic source and background for the working 
of forces in any field of endeavor. In this way astrological knowledge 
accompanied or preceded that of the other sciences.fAs it shows the basic 
language of cosmic energy, it can be used to help understand all spheres 
of life)For example, ancient systems of medicine, like Ayurveda in India 
or ancient Greek medicine, considered astrological influences. The prac¬ 
tice of Yoga is based upon balancing the solar and lunar forces within the 
body. 

All the religious and spiritual cultures of antiquity^the great majority 
of human cultures, those of Egypt, Babylonia, India, China and Mexico, 
were founded on the cornerstone of astrology. All their other sciences and 
their social systems derived from it) Astrology was the original physical, 
psychological and healing science. The astrology of a culture, therefore, 
is a good key to its development. 

Without astrology, that is, without understanding the significance of 
the movements of the heavens relative to our lives, there can be no true 
or integral science. Our connection with the universe is not grasped and 
it will not be possible to either ward off the negative effects of cosmic 
forces or to draw in those which are beneficff Our relationship with the 
stars mirrors our relationship with the cosmos, with our psyche and with 
our inner self/Hence, we could say that where astrology does not flourish, 


£ 7 1 MjcLo4xjtijjcjclL tf^iuLh.A. 



22 The Astrology of the Seers 

the culture must be lacking in higher knowledge or in any real communi¬ 
cation with the universe itself. 

In this regard our culture is deficient. (Though our astronomical 
knowledge is intricate and extensive — more than that of any previous 
civilization — without astrology it is like a body without a soul. We have 
turned the sacred powers of the cosmos into mere number^and chemical 
reactions.^Such an attitude does not show any real sensitivity to life. It is 
like reducing a human being to measurements of height and weight) or 
like looking at a great painting according to the chemistry of its pigments. 
Through this view alone, we are not able to understand who we really are 
or what the world is in truth. We are proud of our science for the energy 
it has provided for us, and certainly it can be useful, but what has it really 
done for our sensitivity to the Divine presence in all things? To what extent 
has it given us a consciousness not limited by time, space, numbers or 
appearances? In this respect, the ancients and their sciences, like astrol- 
ogy, were ahead of us, and we must return to their approach to really go 
forward in our development, floday we do not even regard astrology as a 
science because it is not purely materialistic in its orientation. It sees the 
spirit in things, not just the form. Yet if the universe has a dimension of 
consciousness, as many physicists are beginning to suspect, then science 
must recognize the spirit. Then astrology must be acknowledged as one 
of the legitimate sciences of consciousness)— and without consciousness 
who could really speak of science or truth anyway? 

For a new spiritual age to dawn for mankind, it is essential to bring 
astrology back into the mainstream of human knowledge. There can be 
no higher age for humanity if we do not connect with our greater cosmic 
being through the stars. This requires applying astrology on a deeper level 
than it is usually practiced and understood. Our rejection of astrology has 
caused astrology to become superficial. It has not been given the attention 
and examination it requires. The endeavor to renovate astrology is one of 
the most important of our time, should we have enough awareness to be 
ready for it. I hope that individuals of both intellect and intuition, are called 
to this task, for such work requires both. 

While the spiritual use of astrology all but perished in the West, it 
continued in the East. Yet this was not in the mainstream of eastern 
cultures, where astrology often degenerated into fortune telling, but 
among yogis and sages secluded from the world. It is their wisdom that 
we seek again here. 


^hjcLctIajtllc-€lL ( EJhji4JlA. 



Towards a New Vision of Astrology 


23 


THE SCIENCE OF TIME 
The Vedic Hymn To Time 

(Atharva Veda XIX.23.l-4) 

Time is a horse that moves with seven rays, with a thousand 
eyes, undecaying, who projects a manifold seed. Him the seers 
mount, illumined in mind. His wheels are all the worlds. 

Time moves seven wheels. He has seven mouths, whose center 
is immortal ^nd undecaying. He anoints himself with all these 
worlds. He moves as the first of the Gods. 

A full vessel is set in time. May we who live see his manifold 
forms. He faces all the worlds, who, the seers say, is Time in the 
supreme void. 

He gathered all the worlds together. He encompasses all the 
universe. /Is theirfather, he became their son, apart from whom 
there is no other light. 

Time is the original power that rules the universe, for all things 
originate through time. The world is time, and in each second is the 
creation and destruction of the entire universe. The laws of time are the 
basic laws that structure all things. Hence, to be in awe of time is no mere 
superstition. We all wonder at birth and fear death. This too is a kind of 
reverence for, or worship of time. We all value and count our moments. 
We all want to live forever. Time is the field in which we live. In the 
rhythm of time is the basis of all our activities. 

(Time is the great God who rules the cosmos. Great Time, Mahakala, 
is the great God, Mahadeva — Shiva, the transcendent Lord. The force 
of time, Mahakali, is the great Goddess, Mahadeva — his consort, 
Mahashakti, the supreme Power. 

Time is the Divine breath that creates, sustains and destroys the 
cosmic life and form. Time is the dance of the great God, and it projects 
the beauty and the terror of the great Goddess. 

In ancient cultures the Gods are personifications of time. The Gods 
of time are the Sun, the Moon and the planets which are the channels that 
direct the energy of time through this solar system} The Gods of the planets 
and those of time are the same. The planets reflect the powers of the cosmic r 
intelligence that rules all things through the movement of time. 

^According to modem science, time is not a mere empty continuum or 
abstract concept; it is a force field, a dimension which possesses a certain 
texture. This texture is determined by the gravity of the objects within it, 
which, foremost for us, are the Sun and its planets^The planets have large 


£7 1 HjdxrUrmXcjaJ- tf^iuLh.A. 



24 The Astrology of the Seers 

magnetic as well as gravitational fields. What we call the planets are no 
more than points of light in a vast energy network, connected intricately 
by subtle lines of force, linking the entire solar system into a single 
organism. Though the planets may appear like small points of light in the 
distance, their energy fields are present on Earth, and they are responsible 
for many of the formations of the Earth life and of our own bodies and 
minds. 

According to the ancients, time is a movement which possesses a 
certain rhythm. It is not an abstract vacuum as with Newton. It is the river 
of life that flows according to the music of the spheres. Time projects the 
plan of manifestation which externalizes as space. Time gives birth to, 
sustains and destroys all things, which pre just but waves in its flow, as it 
overflows eternity. 

The planets in their movement determine the energy and the quality 
of the different time phases in which we live. They sustain in motion the 
operation of forces which makes for the play of our lives. The Earth, by 
its movement on its axis, determines the day. The Moon, by its orbiting 
of the Earth, determines the month. The Sun, by the Earth’s orbit around 
it, determines the year. The movement of Saturn determines the month of 
years, or 30 years. The movement of Uranus determines our basic lifetime, 
84 years. 

fEach planet in its orbit gathers in and gives out forces, and thereby 
transmits a particular wavelength of energy necessary for maintaining the 
order of the solar system'}The planets are perpetually flashing forth with 
energy in different patterns and cycles of transmission weaving the w£b 
of life and creation. 

Great time cycles, world-ages of thousands of years or more, are 
related to special planetary conjunctions. They reflect the movements of 
the stars, the orbiting of the Sun around other stars, or its movement 
around the galactic center. There are cycles within cycles ad infinitum in 
the great spiral of creation. The whole of this universe is just a day in the 
life of the Lord of creation, who must sleep a night in the bosom of the 
uncreate. 

Each moment of time has a certain quality to it.^Therc is a certain 
karma, a kind of destiny or synchronicity to the forces operating at any 
specific time period. Everything that happens at a particular moment 
shares the quality of the moment. Hence, in the moment of our birth can 
be read the quality of our life, just as the nature of a tree can be read in 
the seed from which it comes.) 

Similarly, the moment we establish any endeavor, like the time of 
marriage or of starting a business venture, shows the development of 
energy within the life-time of that phenomenon. All the universe is 


£7 'MxLxrlxFTLLGjtMJ. ( EJU-Il£IlA. 



Towards a New Vision of Astrology 25 

speaking to us at every moment and shows us, via the simultaneity of the 
events of our life with the cosmic life, the pattern of what must be(In this 
regard, life is always an open book; yet we must learn to read the book 
for it to be of value^The book of life is the book of time, which is the book 
of the stars. 

{As the Lords of time, the planets are the Lords of karma or destiny. 
They show the cosmic energies or rays we are developing and the level 
on which that development is taking place. They show which forces we 
are susceptible to and may cause harm,)We are living in an ocean of cosmic 
forces and influences, transmitted to us by the planets. Lacking self- 
knowledge and true cosmic knowledge, we move blindly among them, 
perhaps not recognizing them at all; hence, we can be struck down by 
them. We experience such negative encounters with cosmic energies as 
the traumas of life: disease, conflict and death. On a collective level they 
occur as wars, plagues and cataclysms. Most are avoidable if our inner 
eye is open. (Astrology helps us open this inner vision so that we can 
navigate safely in the cosmic ocean of life.) 

Astrology indicates more than the events of this life. The planets show 
past and future life conditions as well. They show the trends of all time. 
All time follows a similar rhythm of birth and death. There is nothing alive 
that has not gone through many cycles of birth and death, including the 
universe itself. What is bom must die; what has died must be reborn. In 
seeing things as they are today, we are also seeing yesterday and tomor¬ 
row, the beings and worlds who have been and are to be, what we have 
been and what we are to be. 

The planets, as the energies of time, flow into eternity. Each planet 
rules a ray of time, which is a ray of eternity, as each moment in time is 
itself a flash of eternity (The planets not only show our bondage to time 
but also indicate the way of liberation from it — how we can move into 
the eternal) When we become conscious of the cosmic forces working 
through the planets, we pass beyond their rule. We integrate their powers 
within ourselves. We put back together the creation within our own hearts. 
We reintegrate the cosmic man who is our inmost Self and soul. We gain 
mastery over the whole creation. (The universe becomes a tapestry of 
thought in which we can play rather than a net of desires in which we are 
caught) The planetary rays which rule us in our ignorance are aspects of 
our own eternity and immortality as a soul. 

In this way astrology is a symbol of spiritual development, the 
evolution of consciousness. We can meditate upon its forms and powers 
and find within them the archetypes for our own inner growth. We can 
use the language of astrology as a symbolic tool, even without any 
consideration for its calculations or particular forms. In the end we must 


£ 7 1 MjcLo4xjtijjcjclL 



26 The Astrology of the Seers 

understand all the forces symbolized by the planets and become all beings. 
We should not just become attached to the pattern of our particular destiny 
but use it as a door to the cosmic life. 

Hymn To The Planets 

(By Vyasa) 

1.1 worship the Sun, who has the lustre of a red hibiscus, who 
has the power of perception, of great effulgence, the dispeller 
of darkness, who destroys all sins, the maker of the day. 

2. I worship the Moon, who has the color of yogurt, sea shell 
or snow, who arose from the ocean of milk, whom Shiva wears 
as a crest jewel on his head. 

3.1 worship Mars, who is born from the womb of the Earth, who 
has the beautiful brilliance of lightning, the Divine youth who 
carries a spear in his hand. 

4.1 worship Mercury, who is dark like the Priyangu flower, who 
has an unequalled form, the intelligent son of the Moon en¬ 
dowed with a gentle nature. 

5.1 worsh ip Jupiter, the teacher of the Gods and the seers, who 
has the lustre of gold, endowed with wisdom, the ruler of the 
three worlds. 

6. / worship Venus, who has the beautiful lustre of a snow 
mountain, who is the supreme teacher of the demons, who 
explains all the scriptures. 

7.1 worship Saturn, who is dark blue in color, who is born before 
the God of death, the son of the Sun and shadow. 

8. / worship Rahu, who has only half a body, great in valor, who 
oppresses the Sun and Moon, who was born from the womb of 
a lion. 

9.1 worship Ketu, whose head is the stars and planets, who has 
the dark lustre of a palasha flower, who is fierce and terrible in 
nature. 

THE PLANETS AND THE GODS 

Spiritual cultures, like the cultures of the ancient world, give rever¬ 
ence to the planets as Gods. In this they express their reverence for the 
cosmos, their regard for the sacred order of existence. jTThe ancients saw 
in the stars and planets the primal powers of cosmic intelligence. They 


^hjcLctIajtll.c-€lL ( EJU-il£IlA. 



27 


Towards a New Vision of Astrology 

worshipped these same cosmic powers within themselves as the powers 
of the soul, our true nature beyond the conditioned mind. They saw the 
Sun rise not only in the outer world but in the inner space of the heart.^ 

The Gods of the ancients are not part of a naive anthropomorphic 
symbolism of natural forces, as we tend to view them by the bias of the 
modem materialistic mind. They are not products of fear, superstition or 
lack of scientific knowledge about the outer world. They are the expres¬ 
sion of a cosmic intuition. They reflect a cosmic metaphor. The unconsci¬ 
ous uses the language of symbols, which includes myth and legend. Yet 
this unconscious, as we know from Jungian psychology, is not merely our 
repressed desires or instinctual patterns; it contains hidden within itself 
the deeper levels of our soul and the cosmic mind. The most primary 
symbols, or archetypes of the psyche, are those of time, as in the riddle of 
the Sphinx. Our most primary issue in life is that of birth and death and 
the meaning of our transient existence. As our myths and symbols are 
naturally of time, they are of the planets. They reflect the dialogue between 
our soul and the cosmic energies and archetypes transmitted through the 
planets. The language of symbols, the language of the deeper unconscious, 
which also contains hidden within it our higher consciousness, is essen¬ 
tially the language of astrology. 

The Gods are the powers of that cosmic intelligence at the heart of 
our own deeper consciousness. They represent its structuring influences 
and the workings of its laws. In the stories of the Gods — whether 
collective myths or those of our dreams, our own inner mythology — is 
the language of the stars. The stars are not only the stuff out of which our 
physical bodies are made, they provide the essential elements for the 
psyche. As such, they continue to operate within our minds and determine 
its workings whether we acknowledge them or not. 

f The ancients saw the universe as an organic entity. This we see in the 
well-known correspondence of macrocosm and microcosm: as without, 
so within; as above, so below. We are present in the world as an organic 
part of the cosmic network; the world is present within our minds as its 
circuitry^ \ 

Outwardly the planets represent the seven rays that determine the play 
of creation. These seven forces exist in nature as the elements and energies 
at work on all levels. They are the rhythm of time as well as the densities 
of matter. They form the seven levels of the cosmos, the seven planes of 
existence. Life is a tapestry of seven times seven. Inwardly these seven 
rays create the rational and emotional sides of the mind along with the 
five senses. 

(in all ancient religions the Sun is the symbol of the One God, the 
Unitary cosmic intelligence, and the force of spiritual evolution behind 


^7#Lf/<rZtra.Zc.a/ SI^lujLIlA. 



28 The Astrology of the Seers 

the workings of life and nature. The Sun is the cosmic lord^nd creator, 
the immanent Divine being, and the Divine Son who is the father of the 
worlds.ftllie Moon is the essential power of nature, the Divine field of 
manifestation, the matrix. She is the great mother Goddess) The cosmic 
creative rays originate from the spiritual planes, and as they descend, they 
take upon themselves greater density and differentiation, and come more 
and more to clash. On all levels, it is the same basic forces in different 
combinations and disguises. 

On a lower level, the planets represent lesser deities, the astral powers 
that govern, sometimes capriciously, the destinies of men. This is more 
the outer level of the Greek Gods. (Mars is the energy principle which, 
when acting on its own, creates violence and conflict) The old myths and 
legends merely illustrate these cosmic energies and their inherent conflict 
and limitation on lower levels. The corruption of the Gods is the corrup¬ 
tion of these forces in their outer workings, jVhen we are not conscious 
of who we really are, the fragmentation of the energies of life must occur. 
The chaos of our unconscious merely reflects our lack of true awareness, 
our bondage to self-consciousness or the ego.) 

(At the next and higher level, the planets represent the Gods of the 
mind and intellect: the principles and ideals of art, science, and philoso¬ 
phy. As mere forces of the mind, they have no real power of transforma¬ 
tion) They disguise a more primal ignorance, for behind the workings of 
the mind is the same mechanism of egoism and desire however noble 
the causes it aspires. {The moral failure of the Greek Gods simply mirrors 
the spiritual failure of an intellectual culture. It shows that behind the Gods 
of the mind are the Gods or powers of the vital realm. The intellect refines 
but cannot go beyond the force of vital passions: anger, greed and fear. 

\On the lowest level the planets become the demons, the Asuras or 
negative entities that obstruct our spiritual growth. Lucifer is traditionally 
the fallen star (Venus in its lower energy). These are the powers of 
falsehood that work through illusion, glamor, hypnosis, deception, arro¬ 
gance and exploitation. They are Gods of the lower vital realm who have 
separated from any higher mental or spiritual connection; yet they are 
nothing but the higher rays inverted on a lower field of manifestation. 
They appeal to our inner needs but in a perverted way, causing us to seek 
from the outer world the fulfillment that can only come from within, from 
our connection with the Divine. We see, therefore, that the planets are not 
only the Gods who raise us up but the demons or titans who pull us down. 
It depends upon how we understand them and use their energy) We, in 
ignorance of our cosmic Self, create the Gods and the demons. We project 
the Divine and cosmic power outside ourselves and become enslaved to 
it. The Gods and demons show the opposites in which we are trapped by 


^hjcLctIajtll.c-€lL ( EJU-il£IlA. 



29 


Towards a New Vision of Astrology 

our dualistic mind. Without the awareness of our inner Self, we become 
the victims of the outer world and place ourselves under the bondage of 
its laws, which are time and duality, division and destruction. 

As the powers that rule this world of ignorance, the planets are 
primarily demonic in their effect. (The Sanskrit word for planet, “graha,” j 
also means demon or what possesses a person. The planets weave a veil j 
of hypnosis in which we project their energy as if it were our ownj The 
warring between peoples or nations merely mirrors the disharmony be¬ 
tween planets. Disease merely reflects a susceptibility to certain negative 
planetary rays. In our ignorance we are controlled by the planets and fulfill 
their will.(We are blindly driven by the unconscious forces of nature, 
whose only purpose is to wake us up that we may take mastery over them 
and use them in a conscious way p 

For this reason the ancients looked upon the planets with fear; they 
were aware of the awesome, terrible and often unpredictable universe in 
which they lived. While we may think we are free of such feelings, 
whenever there is a cataclysm in life, like an earthquake or a flood, these 
feelings come back again^Certain planetary combinations tend to put us ' 
under the possession of the negative side of the cosmic energies, both 
individually and collectively. While in our deeper Self we can control 
these forces, in our ego we can only be their victim j 

The planetary rays form and structure our mind, emotions and senses. 
They organize the systems of our physical body. Our circulation of blood, 
for example, mirrors the revolution of the Sun and Moon in the heavens. 
The intelligence of the planets functions within our own bodies and minds 
as the natural and organic intelligence responsible for their marvelous 
functioning. 

On the deepest level, the Gods and the planets represent the spiritual 
potentials and faculties within us. The Sun is our inner Self, our Divine 
being. Venus is our sense of Divine love, beauty and grace (such factors 
will be explored under the Description of the Planets). We must raise the 
influences of the planets from the lower level of world manifestation, in 
which we live, to the higher level of self-manifestation, to which we 
aspire. To save ourselves, we must redeem the planets, we must reintegrate 
the cosmic rays. To use an ancient metaphor, enlightenment is resurrecting 
the Sun out of darkness. We must redeem that portion of the cosmos we 
are, not for our own special salvation, but to further the evolution of the 
entire cosmos. Yet, as One Self is all and all is One Self, there is only one 
continuous act of liberation which is existence itself. What is necessary 
is to become conscious of it. To do this is to cause the Sun of truth to arise 
within our hearts. 


£ 7 1 MjcLo4xjtijjcjclL SI^lujLIlA. 



30 


The Astrology of the Seers 


ASTROLOGY AS A SPIRITUAL SCIENCE 

Astrology has been and should again be a spiritual science. ^Dur birth 
chart is, in a sense, the mirror of our soul and its orientation to our 
particular incarnation. In our stars we see our destiny as a soul) We see 
the growth and evolution of our inner being from life to life. This does 
not mean that we can find truth or liberation just through reading astro¬ 
logical charts. It means that astrology gives us keys to the unfoldment of 
the spirit, as this is the essence of the cosmic life. 

(The stars and planets are not just outer entities; they are alive within 
us as well. They exist within our own minds as our guiding lights') Or 
rather, one could say that our own inner lights take shape outwardly as 
the stars and planets to guide the world evolution. The outer comes from 
the inner and not vice versa, though the outer can affect the inner. (The 
same rays of creation function outwardly in the heavens and inwardly in 
the heaven of our own higher mindj 

There is only one world, one creation, governed by a single organic 
law of interdependence and interpenetration. There is no ultimate real 
difference between the external and the internal. Each thing in nature is a 
symbol of some aspect of the cosmic being. This is the great beauty and 
wonder of life before which we all bow in awe in our deepest heart. 

The stars determine our field of activity in life. They manifest the field 
of forces in which we work. They transmit the outer forces according to 
whose limits we must function. They also reflect the energies which we 
as souls are projecting into this life. As we are a reflection of them, so 
they are a reflection of us. The stars form the cosmic man and we as human 
beings form a solar system within ourselves. 

Our own soul is a star, a sun, a point of cosmic light. Our soul, which 
is called “the causal being” because it is the causative power behind our 
life and thought, contains the power to create the entire universe. Each 
being is a reflection of the One Being and its imaging of itself into 
manifestation. There is only one act of creation, which occurs at every 
moment and in every perception. At all times and on all levels is the same 
moment of creation which creates the entire universe. It occurs between 
each of our thoughts, between every breath — in the silent space within 
our hearts where we fail to look. 

In the light of our soul, through which we see, is a direct connection 
\o the cosmic light, to the one Divine light that resides in the Sun and in 
ill the stars. It is in the central Sun of our galaxy and in the central Sun 
of our universe. It is from the explosion of this central light that all life 
and creation ensues. That cosmic Sun dwells within us as the light of our 
own awareness. All the outer lights, whether a star or a spark, are 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. ( EJU-il£IlA. 



Towards a New Vision of Astrology 


31 


manifestations of the light of consciousness. All outer illumination mir¬ 
rors the inner illumination which is to see the Self in all beings and all 
beings in the Self. 

Astrology can be used to examine all domains of life. From it we can 
learn about our health, wealth, career, relationships; our body and mind, 
our material, mental and spiritual manifestation. It shows the entire 
structure of energies through which we must act. As such it is the most 
comprehensive science we have. Yet on its highest and proper level, 
astrology is part of the science of the spirit or the practice of yoga. Its 
purpose is to guide us beyond the net of these outer forces to their source. 
This source in not in the heavens, whether in this physical world, or in 
one more subtle. It is not some mysterious or alien force but in who we 
really are when our minds are pure and clear, free of the bias of thought. 

(The planets show the energies in life that we need to master to calm 
our minds. For example, anger, a typical lower energy of the planet Mars, \ 
is the power of truth to manifest what is right and insist upon if. It appears, 
as anger when we identify truth with some egoistic opinion or emotion. | 
All the lower indications of the planets are higher powers struggling in j 
limitation. They are different facets of the jewel of the enlightened mind, ) 
which require reintegration — not suppression.) 

The essential principle of spiritual science is self-knowledge. As great 
sages, both modem and ancient, have repeatedly stated: “Self-knowledge 
is the basis of all knowledge.” Yet self-knowledge is something more than 
psychological analysis. It is not the knowledge of our outer personality or 
conditioned self but that of our inner consciousness or unconditioned 
being. Analysis of memory confines us only to a superficial aspect of our 
being. Self-knowledge is also something more than knowledge of past 
lives; this is only a more extensive memory still caught in the veil of form 
and the limitation of time. 

Self-knowledge is the knowledge of who we really are, of our true 
being, which is the light of awareness and not an external identity. This 
is the Self of which all incarnations are masks. It is found not by knowing 
who we were or why we became this or that; it is found by negating all 
identity and reintegrating all life, all the world within our own hearts. This 
requires seeing all lives within us. Such seieing is more than memory; it 
is a recognition of the Divine presence in all times and in all places. In it 
our continuity from life to life is experienced as but part of a network that 
links us to all life. In it we learn the true lesson of life’s experience — the 
truth of unity. 

Astrology, properly employed, shows us the world within us and our 
self within the entire world so that we might understand the unity of all 
creation. It gives a tool for moving our consciousness from its temporal 


£ 7 'MxjxrlxrnlcjtLL SI^lujLIlA. 



32 


The Astrology of the Seers 


and physical limitations in the human brain through the rays of creation 
to encompass the entire universe^ becomes a tool for meditation wherein 
the planets represent the qualities we must realize within ourselves. They 
are the portions of the Cosmic Man who we are that we must put buck 
together in order to return to the original state of grace) 

Understanding this our consciousness can soar through the planets 
and the stars to the central divine Sun of IVuth in the inner heart. This is 
not some travel to other worlds but an integration of all the rays of creation, 
of all the archetypal energies of the cosmos within our own minds. It is 
not going to other worlds, but expanding our minds to encompass all the 
worlds. It is a movement from the center to the center, finding that one 
center everywhere. 

All worlds, all planets, stars, galaxies and whatever else may be 
beyond these is a manifestation of the seven rays of creation. These same 
rays of creation are the lights of our own soul. All nature is nothing but 
various combinations of these causal lights on different levels. Our solar 
system is designed to manifest these creative energies in their dual power 
as the Sun and Moon, and their fivefold diversification as the five major 
planets of Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn. Grasping the inner 
meaning of these forces, we can understand and transcend all time. 

Each planet is a teaching and represents an integral aspect of the 
cosmic being in its self-manifestation. (Each planet shows us a line of 
approach to the cosmic being. By integrating within ourselves the energies 
represented by the planets, we regain our true wholeness as cosmic beings. 
Each planet therefore represents a door to liberation. If we do not under¬ 
stand or integrate the energy of a planet within us, then it will bind and 
lead us into sorrow and conflict^If we take too much or too little of the 
energy of any planet, we will cause imbalance and disorder both in and 
around us, both physically and psychologically. If we take the energy of 
a planet divisively or superficially, it will lead us into disintegration. If 
we take that energy as a part of our deeper Self, it will lead us to a greater 
self and cosmic unfoldment. 

The planets are awesome forces. We ourselves are part of this mys¬ 
terious and awesome universe and have its tremendous power within us. 
It is there to enable our soul to come to the front for Jhly it can deal with 
the incredible energies in life. Our ego must break or turn away. Through 
inner inquiry and inner surrender, this power to master the planets and the 
stars can come forth. Through it, the nebula of our own mind coalesces, 
spirals, and concentrates and finaily becomes enkindled as a Sun of direct 
perception. 

Each planet represents a particular kind of Yoga, a certain way for the 
unfoldment of consciousness. Following the planetary ray back to its 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. ( EJU-il£IlA. 



33 


Towards a New Vision of Astrology 

origin, through its higher and more subtle potential we will arrive at the 
light of truth. The planets are different gifts of light to guide us back to 
our spiritual home. Their angle of approach varies, but their goal is one. 

In this return route, their energies gradually come together. 

Different souls are under different rays belonging to different planets. 
Different souls belong to different planetary families. They are working 
for the development of the creative ray belonging to the planet, moving 
it forward on its evolutionary development, some at lower, some at higher 
levels. The evolution of the soul and that of the universe is the same. Each 
soul is a guiding force in cosmic evolution and in its liberation will liberate 
a certain facet of the world being and further the evolution of all souls. 

Different countries, races and religions fall under different planetary 
rays. We are all part of the play of the Gods, which is the play of the 
planets. However, we are not just the puppets of this play, though in our 
ignorance of our greater inner potential, we accept this cosmic servitude. 
Inwardly we are the masters of this play, its guiding intelligence. All the 
intelligence inherent in the stars, produced by eons of cosmic evolution, 
is present within us, not as some secret file hidden in our superconscious, 
but as our own natural intuition and spontaneous insight. 

'/ Some ancient sages were said to belong to families of the planet 
Jupiter, others to the planet Venus. Ancient Egypt and ancient America 
followed a calendar centered on the planet Venus. Ancient India and China j 
followed one based upon the planet Jupiter. This is because their cultures j 
were based upon these planets and their creative rays as their guiding J 
inspiration.^ 

Such things do not mean that these people or their sages came from _ 
these planets by way of spaceships. It means that inwardly they were 
attuned to the cosmic ray belonging to the planet. This is not so much an 
intentional act as a natural flow of energy. However, travel to other worlds 
and communication with the beings dwelling on them may have occurred. J 
This does not rest upon some special technology; it is a power of 
meditation, and not necessarily one of the higher powers. While we are 
fascinated with traveling to others worlds or seeing beings from other 
planets, we must on^day wake up and find this also to be childish. All 
that we are seeiking outwardly is already present within us. Far more 
marvelous than any phenomena in the physical or any other world is who 
' we really are behind our veil of ego identity. 

We also find that some of the sages of ancient cultures were identified 
with different constellations, like stars of the Big Dipper or the Pleiades. 
This again is because of the cosmic light they brought down to Earth 
through the power of their awareness. As the stars are our fathers, so are 
our fathers the stars. The beings of other worlds, of other solar systems 


£ 7 1 MjcLo4xjtijjcjclL SI^lujLIlA. 



34 


The Astrology of the Seers 

and other Suns, have seeded this one. So, too, we are seeding other worlds 
by the power of our thoughts and actions. It does not require actually 
traveling to other worlds; we are sending our thoughts into the cosmic 
mind wherein they must have affects beyond this particular world. When 
we awaken to truth we find a creative sun within us. In our inner or Divine 
Sun we may also give birth to entire worlds, not through the blindness of 
our karma but through the natural effusion of our souls. 

(Some souls incarnate into bodies; other souls incarnate as stars or 
planets to guide the evolutionary process. Some souls become worlds, 
others become beings within these worlds^It is not necessarily a sign of 
higher evolution for a soul to become a planet or a star. Some of these 
world beings are typal beings and have no evolutionary potential, though 
powerful and exalted cosmic forces are moving through them. It may be 
a karmic reward or evolutionary interlude rather than a manifestation of 
liberation. Such souls become the demiurges of the worlds, not their 
higher spirits. 

On material worlds, like the Earth, is where the greatest challenge and 
the greatest inner growth occurs. Where limitation and ignorance are 
greatest, the truth can reveal by contrast its most powerful force. Thus for 
a human being to find the truth is the greatest wonder and the most exalted 
achievement which even the Gods cannot equal, and hence which the 
Gods, out of their pride, may try to prevent. 

At death, as souls we return along our planetary rays and the elements 
they represent. We may merge into one of these, usually through the Moon 
or the Sun. We can retain consciousness along this journey depending 
upon our state of evolution. This depends on from which point or orifice 
we leave the body. The lower centers take us to the lower worlds; the 
higher centers to the higher, depending upon which we have most used in 
life. Through the planets we may find a gateway to the planets of other 
solar systems or to other Suns, even to the great galactic Suns. The 
possibilities are endless, yet also transient since the movement from life 
to life has its limits. 

The Moon typically is the gateway to the astral worlds, the worlds of 
the subtle or dream plane. These include the heavens and hells of our 
religious beliefs, which are on the lower astral, as well as the realms of 
art or religious mysticism on the higher. From such worlds rebirth into the 
physical is considered inevitable. 

The Sun (via the top of the head, or crown chakra) is the gateway to 
the causal worlds, the worlds of pure intelligence. These are not worlds 
in the ordinary sense because they are formless. The causal is the realm 
of cosmic law. Here is the true home of our individualized soul, where it 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. ( EJU-il£IlA. 



Towards a New Vision of Astrology 


35 


stores its karmic residues, and from which it can envision the materials 
for another birth.) 

This merging into the planetary rays is a merging into light. We may 
experience it as one particular light center or another, or as the experience 
of a particular world. For undeveloped souls little may be experienced 
after death but along sleep^Some souls, however, may return immediately 
into the physical as part of a spiritual work on Earth and may have little 
after-death experience in the subtle planes.] 

The planets are alive for us on a subtle or astral level, even though 
they are dead for us on a material level. It is to their domains that we go 
in sleep as well. The souls of men have been traveling to the different 
worlds of this and related solar systems on an astral level since the 
beginning of time, and largely unconsciously, day by day and life by life. 

Our culture is proud of its technology which has allowed us to land 
a man on the Moon. Yet we fail to see that we go to the Moon all the time, 
though on an astral rather than a physical level. Most of us seldom get 
beyond it; for on its lower level the Moon is our memory, our past, our / 
karmic storehouse, (the past impressions of the Earth life are stored in the | 
Moon. Our experiences in life are feeding the Moon and allowing it to 
evolve. The lunar realm is the conditioned sphere in which our minds are 
trapped. It is where the worlds reside which are created by our collective 
karmic fixations, like our heavens and hells. The wonder is not that we 
are going to the Moon outwardly by spaceship; the wonder is that so few 
of us have ever gotten beyond the lunar realm inwardly. 

At night when we sleep, our mind expands to include the whole 
universe. We move into our astral or dream body which encompasses our 
whole field of waking experience, and finally into our causal or deep sleep 
body, which encompasses both our waking and dream experiences^ We 
are each physically just a point projection of the cosmic circle of light that 
is the cosmic soul; we are merely one of its rays. This same process of the 
expansion of awareness occurs in a more permanent way when we die. 
(Were it not for our attachment to form through memory, we would 
experience in sleep or in death a natural return to cosmic consciousness 
and liberation. The true rest of sleep is only possible on the level of deep 
sleep when our minds are temporarily resolved into their light source, the 
inner Sun. Most of us lose consciousness along the early stages of this 


journey and cannot benefit any more from it than the necessary rest that 
enables us to return to our outer level activity/ 

Hence the astral and causal bodies (what we could also call the mind 
and the soul) are not just limited forms parallel to the physical body^The 
astral body, when fully developed, contains the entire physical universe. 
It can go anywhere within it or be present anywhere, though it cannot 


£ 7 1 MjcLo4xjtijjcjclL tf^iuLh.A. 



36 The Astrology of the Seers 

interfere with its natural workings. Similarly, the causal body contains 
both the physical and the astral universes. At night or at death, when we 
move into the astral we expand through the whole physical realm; then 
we expand through the astral to the causal. We follow a daily movement 
whereby in the waking state our consciousness is fixated on the point of 
the physical body, and then at night expands into the infinite to find its 
natural freedom and rest. In this process we also gather all the stars within 
us, take inside the light and consciousness of all the universe. 

We absorb and emit the light of the stars daily. They are nothing 
mysterious or foreign to our being; they are its creative lights through 
which it moves back and forth naturally and unselfconsciously in its dance 
between the finite and the infinity 

In our ignorance, however, we do not consciously go anywhere. We 
are trapped in our body and senses. We become food for the Moon, as it 
were. We get caught in our own reflected light in the outer world and lose 
our true solar capacity for independent awareness. We are caught in time 
and matter, and our energy is dissipated. Instead of transforming the 
world, our fragmented energy feeds the negative forces in the world. This 
sustains the lower workings of cosmic energy and keeps us bound to 
primeval powers of the earlier stages of evolution. Our energy is trapped 
in the lower lunar circle, which is the realm of desire. 

( Our main problem in life is the ego, is ourselves — not the other or 
the external world. We arrogate a certain portion of nature to ourselves as 
“I am this” or “This is mine.” Nevertheless, there is only one nature, one 
law in the natural world, one working of cosmic energies. When I am 
angry, it is not that “I” am really angry. Anger is just one aspect of the 
cosmic fire energy. To arrogate it to ourselves is to misunderstand and 
misapply it and make it into a force of destruction. It is simply that we do 
not understand the cosmic implications of that energy and are trying to 
use it in a limited way. Whatever is used in a limited way — for some 
personal, self-promoting end — becomes destructive, as limitation itself 
is destruction. 

The planets only cast energy. It is we who make that energy positive 
or negative in its workings. What turns it negative is the ego, which is the 
arrogation of that energy to ourselves. If there were no ego to become 
attached to the energy coming from Mars, it would not be anger but just 
fire. This would increase our vitality and our perception. It would allow 
us to act decisively but it would not make our action destructive.^ 

To make of astrology a spiritual science, as it once was and was 
intended to be, we must first of all understand the spiritual meaning of the 
planets. We must learn what portion of the cosmic energy each represents. 
We must know their unique place and their function in the scheme of 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. SJ^LiuLh-A. 



37 


Towards a New Vision of Astrology 

creation. In their harmonization and integration we will then be able to ' 
liberate their energy within us. 

( Our astral body, the light of which we can see in the aura, is formed 
of stellar and planetary influences. Our birth chart is something like a 
photograph of our astral body. Our physical body is a grosser replica, an 
outer form of its astral counterpart. Astrology is naturally the astral 
science, the science of the astral body. This astral body is the mind, 
including memory, imagination, intellect and reason. Astrology allows us 
to read the wider scope of the mind, the instinctual and the intuitive, J 
including past life influences^ 

Beyond the astral body is the causal body. Just as we can read the 
state of the physical body through certain factors in the chart, so we can 
read somewhat the state of the causal body, which relates more specific¬ 
ally to the Sun. Thus, astrology can be elevated by a higher perception 
into a causal science. On that level we can explore the movement of our 
souls from life to life and our true purpose in life as a soul — what 
inwardly we have set out to accomplish in this incarnation. 

However our true being transcends all the bodies as the pure aware¬ 
ness behind all things. Astrology, like anything from the realm of creation, 
can only point back to or intimate that. To make astrology into a spiritual 
science is to take it beyond its natural scope and normal limit. This can 
be done if we know how to apply it with complete integrity, objectivity 
and awareness. 

''Actually there is no outer world at all. What appears to us as the outer I 
world is just a combination of the sensory potentials of our own mind. It 
is the light of consciousness diffracted by the lens of the mind into the 
forms of things. Once we realize this, we become free of desire and 
discover our true Self in all beings. This is also the ultimate goal of 
astrology. It is not to set up the stars and planets as the influences we must 
follow; it is to show how they dwell within us so that we can through them 
take mastery over the entire universe.) 

Some may say that astrology, however true it may be, is not a spiritual 
science. It is not a way of liberation, but merely an occult science. It shows 
us our karma, but we are not entirely bound to our karma. Only the 
ignorant are entirely subject to their birth chart, many have said; the wise 
are not concerned about it. Certainly astrology as it is commonly practiced 
is not spiritual. It is full of illusion, a thing of maya, caught in the glamor 
of worldliness, ego and personality. Astrology cannot become a spiritual 
science without understanding its limitations. Yet it can be used as a means 
of converting all the universe into a symbol, a language for the develop¬ 
ment of the soul. 


?7#it/<rZcra.Zc.a/ SI^lujLIlA. 



38 


The Astrology of the Seers 


VEDIC SCIENCE 

Vedic astrology, like the science of Yoga, arose from the vision of the 
ancient seers of India, the Vedic rishis. The rishis were great men of 
spiritual realization and occult perception who lived in the legendary ages 
of light and truth at the beginning of this cycle of human civilization. Their 
knowledge has been passed down through the millennia, largely through 
oral traditions. Gradually it has been lost, distorted, or made rigid, but the 
core of it still remains. It is accessible on the deeper levels of the mind as 
the heritage of the spiritual humanity from which we have come. If we 
look to the presence of the rishis as our spiritual fathers within us, their 
knowledge can again come to us. 

From the meditations of the rishis came'the great system of “Vedic 
Science,” an integral spiritual science comprehending all domains of 
existence. The rishis discovered the universal science of creative intelli¬ 
gence. This they cast in the language of mantra, the human replica of the 
cosmic sound vibrations at the origin of creation. 

fftlantras are seed sounds (the foremost of which is Om) that contain 
the laws and the archetypes behind all the workings of energy in the 
universe. Applying this mantric knowledge on different levels, any do¬ 
main of existence can be comprehended in its inner truth. Through the 
mantra, the rishis were able to be adept in all fields of knowledge, 
including Yoga, philosophy, astrology, geomancy, medicine, poetry, art 
and music. This root knowledge of the mantra is thus an instrument on 
which all knowledge can be revealed by a shifting of scales) 

The Maitriyani Upanishad (VI1) states: “The Self carries himself 
twofold, as the life-force (Prana) and as the Sun. Two are his paths within 
and without by which he revolves by day and by night. The Sun is the 
outer Self; the life-force is the inner Self. Hence, by the movement of the 
outer Self, the movement of the inner Self is measured. But according to 
the Knower, who is free of sin, whose eye is turned within, it is by the 
movement of the inner Self that the movement of the outer Self is 
measured.” The ancient seers used the movement of the Sun to understand 
the movement of the life-force in the body; this became the basis for the 
practice of Yoga. According to their deeper vision, by meditating on the 
life-force within the body, they also came to understand the movement of 
the Sun. In this way when our vision is open, we can read the mysteries 
of the universe in our own body and mind. 

Since Vedic Science is a spiritual science, its central knowledge, in 
which all Vedic disciplines converge and to which they all ultimately 
point, is the knowledge of the Self, called in Sanskrit “Atma Vidya.” Vedic 
Science is the science of Self-knowing. The Self is the one thing, through 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. SJ^LiuLh-A. 



Towards a New Vision of Astrology 39 

knowing which everything is known, (ihie knowledge is not a matter of 
endless facts and information but that which reveals the essence in things. 
This essence alone liberates the mind and fulfills the heart, gives bliss and 
immortality. 

From this central Self-knowledge derives the mantra, the knowledge 
of the essence of sound) This was originally manifested in the mantric 
hymns of the Rig Veda. The Rig Veda is the actual record of the ancient 
seers in their own language of great antiquity. Through it they transmitted 
the essence of all knowledge. They placed in it an intuitive and symbolic 
language that holds the basic laws of the cosmos.V Vedic astrology also 
looks back to the Rig Veda as its origin, and its great mantras to the 
planetary deities come from it) 

The Vedic mantras have as their primary meaning spiritual knowledge 
and the practice of Yoga. In the secondary sense they relate to knowledge 
of the creation. This in turn primarily relates to occult knowledge, the 
knowledge of the subtle laws behind the workings of the physical uni¬ 
verse. The foremost of these occult sciences, as we have mentioned, is 
astrology. The Vedic mantras also give knowledge of the physical body 
as in Ayurveda, the medical system. They contain the secret of the whole 
of human evolution, from animal to god, and of the whole of cosmic 
evolution, from the original explosion of chaos to the ultimate perfection 
of the cosmos. 

Perhaps the greatest or most famous of the ancient seers was the rishi 
Vasishta. He is the most famous sage of the Rig Veda and Vedic literature 
and is found in Puranic and Tantric lore as well. It is to his grandson, 
Parashara Shakti, who himself was the seer of some of the most esoteric 
hymns in the Rig Veda, that the origins of Vedic astrology are traced. His 
great work. The Brihat Parashara Hora Shastra, though weathered by 
time and no doubt containing many accretions, is still used as the main 
book, the source book or scripture, in the field today. The system pre¬ 
sented here is based upon it. 

Self-knowledge transcends time, space and person. It is the knowl¬ 
edge of the consciousness that precedes and underlies all manifestation. 
Hence, Self-knowledge has no form. It is not limited to anything and is 
not the possession of any person, teacher, group, organization, lineage or 
religion. The central principle of Vedic astrology is the primacy of that 
inner knowing. Vedic astrology is meant to help us to our own direct 
knowing, not to impose any external authority or belief upon us .(in the 
practice of Vedic astrology the first principle is reverence for that Self in 
all beings who controls even time and the planets, for whom all the 
universe is but a shadow?! 


£7 'HxixrlxrajjcjtLL WhalL!±A. 



40 


The Astrology of the Seers 


The purpose of Vedic astrology is not to make us feel subject to 
external forces but to help us use our life in a positive way for a greater 
Self-unfoldment. For this we must first understand ourselves. Without 
some degree of self-knowledge, the astrologer, even if he can perceive 
the power of planetary influences, will merely impose his own judgments 
upon his clients. As such he will only serve as another obstacle to the 
flowering of that individual. Such astrology will be that of the ego, not 
that of the soul, and will not be of any lasting benefit to the world. 

VEDIC ASTROLOGY 

Vedic astrology is the traditional astrology of India. It goes back many 
thousands of years to the ancient Vedic culture, in what is to us prehistoric 
times (before 3000 B.C.). It is based on the Vedas, the original scriptures 
of India and of perhaps all Indo-European peoples. 

f In the Vedas we find references to equinoctial positions of great 
antiquity. We find many references to the vernal equinox in the Pleiades 
(called Krittika), or the beginning of Taurus, indicating a date of 2500 B.C. 
in later Vedic literature. There are references in the earlier Vedas, mainly 
the Rig Veda, to dates thousands of years before this, to the Gemini-Orion 
era (the vernal equinox in Mrigashira, c. 4000 B.C.) and the Cancer era 
(the equinox in Punarvasu, c. 6000 B.C.) and earlier.) 

In the Rig Veda, the oldest of the Vedas, we find reference to a system 
of astronomical calculations, including twelve signs and a 360 degree 
circle. We read of a lunar calendar using intercalary months. The Sun as 
being conveyed by seven horses shows knowledge of the seven main 
planets. The lunar constellations (nakshatras) are mentioned generally, 
some specifically. The Vedic Gods have many astronomical and temporal 
correspondences. In later times the constellations were named according 
to the Gods who ruled them, all of whom were Vedic Gods. 

The Rig Veda contains many other suggestive mathematical and 
astrological symbolisms that show a profound but hidden cosmic knowl¬ 
edge. As much of the language is symbolic, much remains hidden. “Four 
are his horns, three are his feet, two are his heads and seven are his hands. 
Bound triply the bull roars. Almighty God has entered into mortals.” (Rig 
Veda IV.58.2) This suggests the later astronomical yuga era of 
4,320,000,000 years, with the seven hands as the seven zeros. 

The Vedic culture was based upon an elaborate ritual attuned to the 
cycle of time, following the cycles of the day, month and year as revealed 
by the movements of the Sun, Moon and planets. The ancients looked to 
the heavens as their clock, meditated upon its influences, and so came to 
discoyer the cosmic truth of who we are. 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. ( EJU-il£IlA. 



41 


Towards a New Vision of Astrology 

(Vedic astrology is the astrology of India and the areas under its 
cultural influence. It has been used by Hindus, Buddhists, Jains and Sikhs. 
It was practiced in the whole of India and in what are now parts of Persia, 
Afghanistan and Russian Central Asia. It still is used in Tibet, Sri Lanka 
and Burma. It followed Hindu and Buddhist influence into Indochina and 
Indonesia. Its influence spread to China and the Middle Eastjperhaps even 
to ancient Babylonia and Egypt in very early times. If the astronomical 
references in the Vedas are accurate it may be the original form of 
astrology from which all the others emerged. It may best represent the 
astrology of the earlier spiritual ages. Hie mythical ages of light, which 
were said to have preceded even the ancient cultures we know of. 

Vedic astrology is often called “Hindu astrology” from the culture 
and religion that gave birth to it. Yet though the forms of Vedic astrology 
have been influenced by Hindu culture and remain so, the basic system 
transcends any cultural identification. It has been practiced in many lands 
by many different peoples and has developed a greater variety of systems 
than Western astrology has to date. Therefore, it is certainly useful and 
adaptable in the West today, along with the many Yoga and meditation 
systems that have come from India. However, we should note that much 
of the higher aspects and spiritual knowledge of Hinduism, the Sanatana 
Dharma or eternal religion, comes through it and can be adapted along 
with it. This too share the universality of the Vedic approach.^nother 
name fof Vedic astrology is “Jyotish,” which means literally “the science 
of light.” This is its most accurate traditional name. 

THE FOUR AIMS OF LIFE 

Vedic Science recognizes four legitimate aims or goals of human life: 
Kama, Artha, Dharma and Moksha. 

Kama means literally “desire” and refers to our need for emotional 
and sensory happiness in life. As such, we could call it “enjoyment.” All 
that we do in life should be enjoyable and not cause pain to ourselves or 
others. 

Artha means “achievement of goals,” but relates more specifically to 
the acquisition of valuable objects and so could be rendered as “wealth.” 
Each of us should have the necessary articles of wealth to allow us to 
function happily in life. 

Dharma means “principle or law” and refers to the fulfillment of our 
need for honor or recognition in life. We could call it “vocation,” as this 
is how our culture interprets this need. Each of us needs to be acknowl¬ 
edged for what we can do so that we can contribute to society without 
compromising who we really are. 


£7 'MxjxrlxrnlcjtLL tf^iuLh.A. 



42 The Astrology of the Seers 

Moksha means “liberation or freedom" and relates to our need for 
spiritual growth, including transcendence of the three lower values. We 
all must seek to go beyond who we are until we become one with all. 

Vedic astrology recognizes the validity of all four aims of life and is 
oriented to facilitate the human being in the attainment of each of them./. 
Yet in Vedic Science the first three — enjoyment, wealth and career — 
are made subordinate to the last; liberation. Liberation is the primary and 
essential goal for all human beings, for all life. Without it the other goals 
have no real meaning. The others are merely a support for it and have no 
validity in themselves. They are useful as a means to an end but not as an 
end in themselves. Once we understand this, we will not take advantage 
of them but use them only insofar as they further spiritual growth. 

As a foundation for the four aims of life, astrology addresses the need 
of health, or freedom from disease. This is the basis for the four aims of 
life, for without health, what else can be accomplished? Health is not just 
physical, it is also mental. So^strology must consider both physical health 
and psychological well-being as the means of approaching all the goals 
of life. Hence, medical and psychological astrology are, after spiritual 
astrology, its most important branches.) 

These four aims can be seen as a pyramid with liberation at the top. 
Each is meant to aid in the others. We need to be happy generally in order 
to function at all. We need the resources to enable us to have leisure and 
peace of mind. We need the acknowledgement or recognition of others in 
order to gain these. Yet most of us are caught in the lower goals and do 
not appreciate the higher goal. Often our pursuit of the higher remains a 
pursuit of the lower in disguise. In the name of God we may still seek 
pleasure, power or fame. Astrology is often made hostage to these lower 
goals. For astrology to reclaim its spiritual integrity, it must recognize the 
right orientation of the goals of life. 


^MjdxHxruJLcjaL ( EJhju£JlA. 



2 

ASTROLOGY 
EAST AND WEST 


Astrology has existed all over the world and at all times. It was most 
prevalent in ancient religious cultures like those of Egypt and Babylonia. 
In the Europe and the Middle East these ritualistic cultures came to an end 
and were replaced by medieval cultures of Christian and Islamic varieties. 
These medieval cultures continued to use astrology, which they adapted 
from the earlier cultures, but it became a secondary pursuit. The religion 
of the One God would not admit the powers of the Gods. 

However, the culture and religion of India maintained its continuity 
from early ancient times. It continued to worship the Gods as well as to 
seek the Divine Self or pure consciousness. It retained freedom in the 
realm of spirituality and religion, even though it often denied it in the outer 
life. There was no control of the culture by the forces of an exclusive 
monotheism or by a church which denied both nature and the transcen¬ 
dent. Hence, it is not surprising that an older and perhaps more complete 
form of astrology survived there. (The ritualistic calendar based upon the 
stars, the worship of the planets as Gods or cosmic forces, and the general 
culture of temple worship continues in India today as it did in Babylonia 
and Egypt three thousand years ago) Modem Hindus still give prayers and 
offerings to the planets today as did their counterparts in ancient Europe 
and the Middle East. 

Astrology, however, has undergone a kind of renaissance in the West 
during the last hundred years — or one may be beginning. A new modem, 
scientific, psychological approach has added much knowledge and broad¬ 
ened the vista of astrology from the shackles of the medieval mind. This 
too is beginning in India, though it is not as far developed and will 
probably not go as exclusively in this direction. Astrology has survived 
the onslaught of the materialistic age and may even have benefited from 
it by being forced into greater clarity and objectivity. Once the symbol of 
the past, many now view it in futuristic light. 

Astrology thus is a good point of dialogue and interchange between 
East and West, the ancient and the modem. It links together the greatest 
diversity of cultures in the most common perceptions and aspirations of 
humanity. 



44 


The Astrology of the Seers 


THE TWO ZODIACS 

Most of us are under the impression that there is only one zodiac: that 
of the fixed stars or the constellations. We think that when an ephemeris 
(an astrological table of planetary positions) mentions that a planet is 
located in a particular sign — for example, Jupiter in Sagittarius — that 
if we were to look up into the sky to the stars of the constellation 
Sagittarius, we wouW see the planet located there. This, however, is 
usually not the case, (The zodiac used by most Western astrologers today, 
what is called “the TVopical zodiac,” is no longer based directly on the 
stars; it does not correspond to observable positions.) Our astrological 
Jupiter in Sagittarius would more likely be found astronomically among 
the stars of Scorpio. It could even be found near Antares, the red first 
magnitude star at the heart of the Scorpion, if it were around 8° Sagittarius. 

The signs of the Tfopical zodiac, over the millenia, may come to 
correspond to any of the constellations of the fixed stars. Today the 
Tfopical sign of Aries corresponds to the fixed stars of early Pisces. Soon 
it will correspond to Aquarius, with the beginning of the age of Aquarius 
that we hear so much about. In 10,000 years or so, Tropical Aries will 
correspond to the fixed stars of Libra, its opposite, until some 23,000 years 
hence when it will once more correspond to the actual stars of Aries. 

(This is because the signs of the Tropical zodiac are based upon the 
equinoxes, not the fixed stars. The beginning of the Tropical zodiac, its 
first degree of Aries, is always identical with the point of the vernal 
equinox, the place of the Sun at the first day of spring, and not with any 
specific group of stars. The orientation of the equinoxes to the fixed stars 
changes over time according to the precession of the Earth on its axis. 
This phenomenon, a changing of the tilt of the Earth, causes the point of 
the Earth relative to the fixed stars to move backwards in the zodiac. Over 
a period of around 25,000 years the point of Earth relative to the fixed 
stars makes a full circuit of the zodiac. 

The zodiac which corresponds to the actual constellations, or the fixed 
stars, is called “the Sidereal zodiac.” Vedic astrology uses this, as does 
Western Sidereal astrology which derives its orientation from the Indian 
model. 

Around 2,000 years ago, when Western astrology was in its formative 
stages, the two zodiacs Coincided. Since then, with the precession, the two 
zodiacs have been slowly moving apart, around 50" per year. Hence, the 
Tropical zodiac shows the actual astronomical positions of some two 
thousand years agofy 

The Topical zodiac is based not upon the stars but on the orientation 
of the Earth to the Sun. The TTopics of Cancer and Capricorn denote the 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. SJ^LiuLh-A. 



Astrology East and West 45 

places of the Sun at the summer and winter solstices. The TVopical zodiac 
begins with the Sun at the vernal equinox. This it designates as the 
beginning of the sign Aries. Its position at the summer solstice becomes 
the first degree of Cancer; at the autumnal equinox, the first degree of 
Libra; and at the winter solstice, the first degree of Capricorn. The seasons 
mark the cardinal points of the TVopical zodiac; yet as the precession 
continues, the fixed stars marking these seasonal points are slowly and 
inevitably changing. 

The TVopical zodiac remains identical with these seasonal points; it 
does not consider the precession. Indeed, many who have used it have not 
even known of the precession. The Sidereal zodiac, on the other hand, 
calculates the precession into its positions. Its signs are always identical 
with the fixed stars. (The ancient Hindus maintained knowledge of the 
precession throughout the course of human history, something no other 
culture was able to do^In the Vedic system the sign Aries, for example, 
is always equal to a thirty degree section of the fixed stars in which are 
located the stars of the constellation of Aries. 

Today, however, TVopical astrologers realize that their signs no longer 
correspond to the fixed stars. They rest their validity upon other factors. 
Some say their validity depends upon the seasons; others say it is a 
temporal rather than a spatial symbolism, with the signs more as a division 
of time than a division of space. This, they hold corresponds to the 
difference between the static, eternal or space-oriented view of oriental 
and ancient cultures, and the time and progress-oriented view of the West 
and modem times. 

This is not to say that Tropical astrology does not consider the 
precession. It does so relative to world-ages, as its recognition of the age 
of Aquarius with the processional movement of the vernal equinox back 
into the fixed stars of Aquarius. TVopical astrology does recognize the 
Sidereal zodiac and considers it to be of value; but for longer collective 
time periods, not for the life period of the individual. 

Vedic astrology, on the other hand, does consider the position of the 
planets relative to the points of the equinoxes and solstices. Yet this is used 
as one of several points for determining planetary strengths and 
weaknesses, not as a major factor in interpretation. 

We see, therefore, that two different methods of determining the signs 
of the zodiac exist. Each is based on a different kind of calculation. Neither 
is necessarily wrong. Both are using different measurements, though they 
employ the same language to speak of them. The signs of the TVopical 
zodiac are not really star signs, though they follow the analogy of the 
twelve constellations or star groups. They measure the heavens according 
to the Sun-Earth relationship, not that between the solar system and the 


£ 7 1 MjcLo4xjtijjcjclL tf^iuLh.A. 



46 The Astrology of the Seers 

fixed stars. The signs of the Sidereal zodiac, however, are identical with 
those of the fixed stars (or, more properly, of a thirty degree section of the 
sky in which they are located). There are also a few people today who try 
to relate the signs to the actual stars only, rather than to a thirty degree 
division in which they are located. For example, they would see Aries as 
only equivalent to the stars of that small constellation, not to the greater 
band around it. Vedic astrology does not agree with this. It sees in the 
twelvefold division of the zodiac a harmonic division of the light coming 
from the center of the galaxy. It is this harmonic division that is most 
important, and not the individual stars within that division, though these 
have their significance as well. 

THE CONTROVERSY BETWEEN THE TWO ZODIACS 

As two different zodiacal systems are used, a controversy naturally 
arises between them. Some astrologers may consider one to be the true 
zodiac, the other to be in error. Some may consider both to be valid but 
to different degrees. Some may try to use both together. If we are unbiased, 
( I believe that we can find examples of accurate astrological readings using 
either system, and examples of bad readings as well. This may depend 
more upon practitioner than system.} 

Some say that the TVopical system is for Westerners, since it has 
developed here, and that the Sidereal system is for Easterners, as it has 
prevailed in the East. Yet Sidereal astrology can give good and accurate 
readings even for Westerners who believe in the TVopical system, and 
TVopical astrology can make sense of the charts of Easterners. Moreover, 
we see this barrier between East and West breaking down everywhere. 
Easterners can be as materialistic or scientific as Westerners, and West¬ 
erners can be as spiritual or religious as Easterners. We are all human 
beings with the same basic nature in life, and we cannot make the influence 
of the stars dependent upon geographical influences. 

When a TVopical astrologer says that the Sun is in Aquarius, he does 
not mean that the Sun is in the fixed stars of the constellation Aquarius. 
He usually knows that it is probably in the fixed stars of Capricorn. He 
means that it is in the eleventh of a twelvefold division of the zodiac based 
upon the position of the Sun at the vernal equinox. Similarly, when a 
Sidereal astrologer says that the Sun is in Capricorn, he means the fixed 
stars, not the TVopical division, which he knows is probably Aquarius. 
Though both astrologers use the same terms, they refer them to different 
portions of the sky based upon two different ways of dividing the heavens. 

As Vedic astrology is sidereal, this means that the signs will change 
in the Vedic chart from what we find in the more common TVopical chart. 
A Taurus Sun sign person may find their Sun in Aries in the Vedic system. 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. SJ^LiuLh-A. 



47 


Astrology East and West 

This shift of positions naturally causes some consternation, particularly 
for those of us who are familiar with or pleased with our chart in the 
TVopical system. An Aquarius Sun sign person may not be happy to 
become Capricorn in the Vedic system (even though there is some 
difference in the interpretation of the meanings of these signs). On the 
other hand, a Capricorn Sun in thE Western system may feel happier as a 
Sagittarius Sun in the Eastern. (We should mention in passing that the 
Vedic system does not make such a big thing of Sun signs; it considers 
the Ascendant and the Moon to be more important). Hence, it is crucial 
that we understand the two zodiacs and their differences so that we don’t 
confuse one system with the other or try to judge one according to the 
standards of the other, in which terms neither is likely to look good. 

The Sidereal zodiac is probably the original zodiac historically, as it 
is the observable zodiac. The TVopical, which is an abstract zodiac, must 
have derived from it, as all abstractions are usually based on underlying 
observable things. 

The zodiac was invented long before the time when the vernal 
equinox was in Aries. It must have originally been based upon direct 
observation of the stars. When the Egyptians and the Babylonians spoke 
of the sign Taurus, they must have been referring to the fixed stars; yet in 
their time Taurus marked the vemal equinox, not Aries. It is hard to 
imagine that in 2000 B.C. when the Sun was in the stars of Taurus, the 
ancients would have located it in the TVopical sign of Aries (which would 
have been the case if they used the TVopical zodiac). An abstract or 
symbolic zodiac, as the TVopical is, would not have made sense in cultures 
that marked their calendar on observable planetary positions. 

If astrology came originally from India, then the Sidereal zodiac 
would definitely come first, since its astrology has remained Sidereal 
throughout its long history. Ancient cultures like India, which maintained 
the continuity of their civilizations over thousands of years, would quite 
naturally have to reckon with the precession of the zodiac. As their 
calendar was based upon astronomical sightings, like that of the Moon in 
a certain constellation on a certain date, within a thousand years the 
calendar would be off two weeks; in two thousand years, a month. It was 
only when these ancient cultures declined and fell that the knowledge of 
precession with their calendar was lost. It is not surprising that we find 
many such calendar shifts in the ancient Vedic texts of India. 

Western civilizations, however, did not have these ancient roots. They 
changed too quickly for such shifts of stellar positions to be noted. 
Knowledge of the precession was lost altogether in the dark ages. 

The advantage of the Sidereal zodiac, therefore, is that it is probably 
the original zodiac astronomically and historically. The complaint of 


£ 7 'MxjxrlxrnlcjtLL SI^lujLIlA. 



48 The Astrology of the Seers 

many astronomers that astrology cannot be valid as its signs no longer 
correspond to the stars cannot be lodged against Sidereal astrology. 
Whether the TVopical zodiac is an improvement on this original zodiac of 
the fixed stars, an alternative system, or a deviation from it, is another 
question. Tiopical astrology can be accurate; however, Vedic astrology 
considers the Sidereal zodiac to be more important. The advantage of the 
Tiopical zodiac, of course, is that it is the commonly known one, the 
astrological language of our culture. Whether it will be the primary system 
for the global astrology that will emerge in the New Age remains to be 
seen. By the accounts of psychics like Edgar Cayce, who also used a 
sidereal system, the Sidereal model will prevail in time. 

Vedic astrology has existed for over many thousands of years. A 
number of changes of equinoctial positions similar to our age of Aquarius 
and similar shifts in the calendar have been recorded in it. The Vedic 
system and its zodiac are based upon a continuity of culture that goes back 
to the age of the Gods when human beings still had communication with 
the intelligence of the cosmos. It may, therefore, provide us with the key 
to that working of that cosmic intelligence. 

THE ORIENTATION OF THE SIDEREAL ZODIAC 

Western astrology orients the zodiac to the point of the vernal equi¬ 
nox. This it marks as the beginning of the sign Aries, as we have indicated. 
On the other hand, Vedic astrology, according to my interpretation, orients 
the zodiac to the galactic center, to the central galactic Sun, whose 
influence comes to us through the fixed stars of the constellation 
Sagittarius. The galactic center is called “Brahma,” the creative force, or 
“Vishnunabhi,” the navel of Vishnu. From the galactic Sun emanates the 
light which determines life and intelligence on Earth and which directs 
the play of the seven rays of creation and the distribution of karma. It is 
the central point for determining the meaning of the signs of the zodiac, 
which reflect the twelvefold division of its light relative to our solar 
system. 

In terms of the Sidereal zodiac, the galactic center is located in early 
Sagittarius. In the Vedic system it is found in the lunar constellation 
(nakshatra) called “Mula,” meaning “the root or source.” Mula can thus 
be seen as the first of the series of the lunar constellations and marks the 
first 13° 20' of Sagittarius, in the middle of which is located the galactic 
center. The last in the series of lunar constellations is called “Jyeshta,” 
meaning “the eldest.” It covers the end of Scorpio. This shows that the 
ancients knew of the galactic center and named their constellations 
according to that knowledge, with it marking the beginning of the se¬ 
quence. 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. SJ^LiuLh-A. 



Astrology East and West 49 

We should note that the system of 27 lunar constellations is used in 
India, often more commonly than the 12 signs. This is because according 
to it the Moon resides in one constellation per day. It makes for easier 
observation than the sign system in which the Moon resides in each sign 
for two and one-half days. If one knows the lunar constellation where the 
Moon resides on one day of the month, one can easily figure out where it 
will be for the rest of the month. Such a system shows that Vedic astrology 
was based on a firm ground of observation of the stars. 

There are three main points of orientation for the Sidereal zodiac, 
which form a triangle: 1) Aries, as cardinal or creative fire is the field in 
which the cosmic light is projected; 2) Leo, as fixed fire, is the field in 
which it is sustained; 3) Sagittarius, as mutable fire, is the field in which 
it is completed or transformed. 

This orientation is fixed according to the Sun’s relationship to the 
galactic center. The galactic light comes through Jupiter and early 
Sagittarius and triangulates itself through Aries and Leo (located in trines 
or 120 degree angles from it). 

The Sidereal zodiac maintains this consistent relationship with the 
galactic center. The Tiopical zodiac is based upon a consistent Earth-Sun 
relationship via the equinoxes. The Sidereal zodiac measures the relation¬ 
ship between the solar system and the great galactic Sun. It reflects the 
influences which emanate from the center of the galaxy, as mediated and 
transmitted by the planets of our solar system. 

The energy of the galactic center is transmitted mainly by the planet 
Jupiter (called “Guru,” the teacher, in the Vedic system) and by 
Sagittarius, its positive sign. Jupiter is said to be the teacher of the Gods, 
the cosmic powers of light. In this respect he is even the teacher of the 
Sun who is the guide of the world. Jupiter represents and directs the light 
of the galactic Sun into our solar system. 

In this manner we can divide the zodiac into three groups of four 
constellations: 


cf 

0 

u 

ARIES 

LEO 

SAGITTARIUS 

TAURUS 

VIRGO 

CAPRICORN 

GEMINI 

LIBRA 

AQUARIUS 

CANCER 

SCORPIO 

PISCES 


The first division of the zodiac is directed by Mars, which through 
Aries, cardinal fire, initiates the zodiacal emanation of energy. This is the 
cardinal or creative quadrant of signs. It consists of Aries and Cancer, two 
cardinal signs; Taurus, a fixed sign; and Gemini, a mutable. 


£ 7 1 MjcLo4xjtijjcjclL tf^iuLh.A. 



50 


The Astrology of the Seers 

The cardinal quadrant of signs is responsible for beginning move¬ 
ment, initiating activity, guiding and directing the manifestation, for 
casting seed forces. 

The second division of the zodiac is directed by the Sun, which 
through Leo, fixed fire, stabilizes the zodiacal emanation of energy. This 
is the fixed quadrant of signs. It consists of two fixed signs, Leo and 
Scorpio; one cardinal, Libra; and one mutable, Virgo. 

The fixed quadrant of signs is responsible for sustaining movement, 
stabilizing activity, and bringing energy into form. It provides continuity 
to the forces in life. 

The third division of the zodiac is directed by Jupiter, which through 
Sagittarius, mutable fire, brings the zodiacal emanation of energy to 
completion and fruition. This is the mutable quadrant of signs. It consists 
of two mutable signs, Sagittarius and Pisces, one cardinal; Capricorn, and 
one fixed; Aquarius. 

The mutable quadrant of signs is responsible for completing move¬ 
ment, transforming energy, destabilizing form. It moves us away from 
energy and form into the domain of thought. 

All three divisions begin with a fire sign and end with a water sign of 
the same quality. The first group has fire and water of a cardinal sign; the 
second, of a fixed sign; and the third, of a mutable. These three groups of 
signs represent the movements of creation, preservation, and destruction 
according to the galactic force transmitted through our solar systfem. 

SOLAR AND COSMIC ASTROLOGY 

In summary, we could say that TVopical astrology may best be called 
“Solar astrology.” Its signs may be more accurately called “solar houses,” 
or “equinoctial signs.” Its zodiac measures the Earth-Sun relationship but 
has no direct correlation with the other fixed stars. As such, its concern is 
with psychology, the personality and character-types, the solar side of our 
life and character. Its signs show how the planets distribute the solar force, 
but not how they distribute the energies of the stars and of the galaxy itself 
— the secret light of intelligence. 

Sidereal astrology can be called “Cosmic astrology.” Its signs are the 
stellar constellations. Its zodiac measures the relationship between our 
solar system, the fixed stars, and the galaxy itself. As such, its concerns 
cover a broad area. It possesses good predictive powers and, perhaps, a 
better basis for a spiritual astrology. For spiritual astrology we must 
consider the great galactic center and the position of the signs relative to 

il i 

Both systems can be integrated. We see that both astrologies employ 
a system of houses. These are based upon the daily rotation of the Earth 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. ( EJU-il£IlA. 



51 


Astrology East and West 

on its axis. The Tiopical zodiac also reflects the yearly rotation of the Earth 
around the Sun. The Sidereal zodiac adds to this the millennial rotation 
of the solar system through the precessional cycle. In this way, one could 
measure all three of these factors and thereby integrate Eastern and 
Western astrology. However, this becomes complex and cumbersome in 
actual prediction. 

On the other hand, both systems can also remain as alternatives, just 
as different healing systems exist. It could be argued that maintaining the 
differences between the two systems is good and allows for a broader 
development of astrological knowledge. 

Even if one system is ultimately found to be superior to the other, 
aspects of one may still be helpful to add to the other. Many Vedic 
astrologers add Uranus, Neptune and Pluto to their system of interpreta¬ 
tion. The greater psychological sophistication and intellectual clarity of 
Western astrology may be helpful to add to the Vedic system also. 

Aspects of Vedic astrology, like its use of gems as remedial measures, 
can be used in terms of Western Tropical astrology, which generally lacks 
many methods for harmonizing planetary influences. Harmonic charts, 
which are becoming popular in Western Tropical astrology today (like the 
dwads), come originally from the Vedic system. Hence aspects of the 
Vedic system may be useful to TVopical astrologers as well. 

AYANAMSHA 

f The difference between the TVopical and Sidereal zodiacs is called the 
“Ayanamsha.^ It is a term now used by Western astrologers as well. In 
Sanskrit, “ayana” means solstice and “amsha” means portion. It refers to 
the difference from the current point of the vernal equinox among the 
fixed stars to that of the beginning of the constellation Aries. 

The main controversy among Sidereal astrologers is regarding the 
exact extent of the location of the Ayanamsha. Some Western astrologers 
consider that the vernal equinox is already in Aquarius; this would be an 
Ayanamsha of over thirty degrees. Such a view is hard to validate 
astronomically, as the equinox is now still in early Pisces and far from the 
actual stars of Aquarius. 

Western Sidereal astrologers place the Ayanamsha around 24° 02' as 
of 1950. Most Vedic astrologers place it between 21° 40' and 23° 10' for 
that era. The latter, called the “Lahiri” Ayanamsha, is now standard by 
the government of India but still not accepted by everyone. While it is 
easy to determine the exact point in the heavens to which the vernal 
equinox corresponds today, it is hard to measure what should actually be 
the first point of the constellation of Aries. The identity of the Vedic star 


£7 'MxjxrlxrnlcjtLL tf^iuLh.A. 



52 


The Astrology of the Seers 


Revati, said to mark this position, is a matter of dispute; nor is it easy to 
determine the point in time in which the vernal equinox was there. 

Ayanamsha For 1950 ' 

23° 10' Lahiri (govt, of India) 

21° 42' B.V. Raman 

21° 46' Sri Yukteswar 

22° 03' J.N. Bhasin 

24° 02' Fagan-Bradley (American Sidereal Astrology) 

Rate of Movement of Ayanamsha 

The rate of movement of the precession per year is also a matter of 
some difference of opinion and appears to vary slightly over time. Hence 
the date of coincidence for the two zodiacs is calculated differently. Vedic 
astrologers start their calculations from 200-550 A.D. as the point of the 
coincidence of the two zodiacs. Some Western astrologers want to use the 
birth of Christ for this purpose. 

48" Lahiri 

50.3" Raman 

54" Sri Yukteswar 

Personally, I prefer the system of Sri Yukteswar (better known as the 
guru of Paramaharisa Yogananda) from his book. The Holy Science, as he 
was both an astrologer and a Self-realized soul. He begins the cycle with 
499 A.D. and makes it a 24,000 year cycle, according to the Vedic theory 
of the four yugas. B.V. Raman’s calculations are close to his, and J.N. 
Bhasin’s are not far either. Astronomy places the cycle at 25,800 years 
(and a rate of movement about 50.3") but admits fluctuations that make 
the period a matter of speculation. 

One can choose the Ayanamsha one finds best. The rationales of the 
different systems can be studied on their own. For ordinary planetary 
positions it seldom makes a difference. It is mainly in terms of harmonic 
charts and planetary periods that it can become significant. Only time will 
tell which is right, and each group has its reasons for the validity of its 
calculations, which there is not the space to examine here. As with all 
things in life, there are a number of ways of looking at them. In the end 
it is the practice rather than the theory that reveals the truth. 

A modern TVopical ephemeris may give the Western Sidereal 
Ayanamsha by the month, which we can then subtract from all planetary 
positions. An ephemeris with the positions of the planets according to the 


^7#Lt/<rZtra.Zc.a/ SJ^LiuLh-A. 



53 


Astrology East and West 

Lahiri or Raman Ayanamshas can be purchased from India. Options for 
calculating the standard Ayanamshas, or for adding one’s own, can be 
found on most Vedic astrology computer programs. Extensive Vedic or 
Hindu astrology programs are now available through astrological com¬ 
puter services today, and they are likely to become common for most 
astrologers to have at least for reference. Vedic astrology has made it in 
the West, at least on computer! Now, hopefully, we can give some sense 
to those apparently strange calculations. 

Ayanamsha Table 1900-1990 


DATE 

LAHIRI 

YUKTESWAR 

January 1, 1900 

22° 27' 59" 

21° 00'54" 

January 1, 1910 

22° 35' 51" 

21° 09'54" 

January 1, 1920 

22° 44' 43" 

21° 18' 54" 

January 1, 1930 

22° 52' 40" 

21° 27' 54" 

January 1, 1940 

23° 01'21" 

21° 36' 54" 

January 1,1950 

23° 09' 34" 

21° 45'54" 

January 1, 1960 

23° 17' 54" 

21° 54' 54" 

January 1, 1970 

23° 26'21" 

22° 03' 54" 

January 1, 1980 

23° 34' 31" 

22° 12' 54" 

January 1, 1990 

23° 42' 56" 

22° 21'54" 


This simple table is for general reference. For intermediate years the 
difference can be averaged according to the yearly rate. For all practical 
purposes it can be corrected to the nearest minute. As the rates are about 
9 minutes for ten years, one can add .9' per year. 

HOW TO CALCULATE THE VEDIC CHART 

The calculation of the Vedic chart can be done according to the same 
method as the calculation of the Western Tfopical chart, only the Ayanam¬ 
sha is subtracted from all planetary and sign positions. Thus^any typical 
Western chart can be turned into a Vedic chart simply through subtracting 
the AyanamshajjFor this reason we will not go into how to calculate charts; 
this can be found in many common Western astrology books which can 
be examined for reference. There is a special Indian way of calculating 
charts, but it is very complicated, for example, it depends upon the time 
of dawn, and so is not necessary to learn. 

Planetary aspects from the Western chart, however, will not be 
applicable. In addition, the house cusps in the Western chart will mark the 
middle rather than the beginning of the house in the Vedic system. These 
issues will be discussed in their appropriate sections. 


£ 7 1 MjcLo4xjtijjcjclL tf^iuLh.A. 



54 The Astrology of the Seers 

One should calculate the Western chart and transpose it into the 
Eastern by subtracting the appropriate Ayanamsha. One can use a Vedic 
astrology computer program or send away to an astrological service for a 
Vedic chart according to the Ayanamsha preferred. Vedic astrology has 
many more calculations in its system than the Western system; hence, a 
computer program is almost essential for its practice. As in all astrological 
calculations, one should make sure of the accuracy of the birth data. 

Sample Birth Chart 
Rashi Chakra 

Below we show the south Indian style (the north Indian style uses a 
diamond pattern). The south Indian chart is often preferable. This is 
because in Vedic astrology we read houses not only from the Ascendant 
but also from the Moon and other planets. These can be seen easily on the 
southern chart but not on the northern chart. In it, the upper center star 
(★) marks the constellation Aries and the rest of the signs follow in 
clockwise order around it. The exact degree positions of the planets and 
houses are usually listed separately, though for a simple reading they are 
not necessary. Our example is the cha rt of Mahatma Gandhi 

Notice that this structure puts much more emphasis on the signs. The 
usual Western circular chart emphasizes more the aspects between the 
planets. 


K 

Yr 

★T 

*R 

«R 

_ 

« 

n — 

mt 

BIRTH CHART 
RASHICHAKRA 

So 

Vr 

n 

j> _ 

V3 

U 

si 

t 

"1 

b 

-A- 

9 9 

A sc 

ns 

o 


^7#it/<rZtra.Zc.a/ ( EJhju£JlA. 




3 

THE WORLD-AGES OR 


THE CYCLES OF THE YUGAS 


Who knows now and who can declare which are 
the paths that lead to the Gods. Only their lower 
habitations are visible, who dwell in regions of supreme 
mystery. 

- Rig Veda III. 54.5. 

According to the seers and yogis, life on Earth is under the rule of 
vast cosmic forces that originate from the stars. All that happens locally 
on our planet and in our personal lives is the result of tremendous forces 
coming from the distant regions of the universe. These are not just distant 
regions of the physical world as modem science has discovered them, but 
also from distant recesses of the cosmic mind, the mysterious origin of 
things wherein the underlying laws and forces of creation arise. These 
forces determine the nature of the time in which we live. Usually we are 
so involved in the transient and outer events of our personal and social 
lives that we miss these great powers altogether. Like fish, we fail to see 
the ocean. 

Just as there are seasons in the year, just as there are stages of life 
from youth and old age, so, too, we are individually and collectively under 
the rule of various time cycles. Each person, each nation, each religion, 
each humanity has such a cycle of its own, as does the planet itself. We 
are all in different stages in the processes of birth, growth, decay, and 
death, not just in our bodies but also in our minds and souls. Yet this is 
not just a mechanical round that goes nowhere; there is behind the cycle 
of time an ongoing evolution of consciousness. Just as a tree goes through 
cycles of growth and retreat in a year but continues to grow year after 
year, so do all things have an inner growth process in which the cosmic 
energy and consciousness continues to develop, life after life. 

THE LESSER CYCLE OF WORLD-AGES 

( The main time cycle governing the human race, the seasons of 
humanity, appears to be the precessional cycle. We could consider this 
period of about 25,000 years to be one year in the life of humanity. This, 


£7 'MxjxrlxrnlcjtLL tf^iuLh.A. 



56 The Astrology of the Seers 

according to some Vedic astrologers, reflects the period of revolution of 
the Sun around a dark companion. According to them, the Sun is a double 
star, but its companion appears to be a dark dwarf star possessing no real 
luminosity of its own. Even modem astronomers have begun to suspect 
the existence of such a star and have postulated its existence to explain 
irregularities in the orbits of Neptune and Pluto, which suggest the 
gravitational influence of a more distant heavenly body within the solar 
system. ' 

Besides the light from our own Sun, we also receive light from the 
center of the galaxy, the galactic Sun. Much of the light of this greater 
Sun, however, is not in visible frequencies. Some astronomers have 
suspected a central galactic light ruling the galaxy, like that of a quasar 
whose light may be obscured by dust or nebula in the region of the galactic 
center. According to Vedic astrology, the light from this galactic source 
has a special influence upon life on Earth: it nourishes and sustains 
intelligence in human beings. This is not materialistic intellect but true 
intelligence — the capacity to perceive the real or Divine spirit in things 
and act according to the Divine Will. 

When the Sun is on the side of its orbit wherein its dark companion 
comes between it and the galactic center, the reception of that cosmic light 
appears to be greatly reduced. At such times there is a dark or materialistic 
age on Earth. When the Sun is on the opposite side of its orbit and has an 
open reception to the light of the galactic Sun, then there is a spiritual or 
Golden Age on Earth. Humanity then acts in harmony with cosmic 
intelligence and with the Gods or Divine powers who are its functionaries 
and emissaries. The Sun’s dark companion thus appears to possess a 
negative magnetic field which obstructs the cosmic light of the galactic 
center from reaching us on Earth. Thereby it creates certain cycles of 
advance and decline in human civilization. 

Modem astronomy estimates this cycle at around 25,900 years. The 
rate of yearly precession does not appear fixed, so this duration is only 
approximate. Manu, the great Vedic lawgiver for the human race in the 
Golden Age, in his teaching Manu Samhita ( 1.68-71, also see The Holy 
Science, Sri Yukteswar, pg. 11) places this cycle at 24,000 (2x12,000 or 
100x240) years. Other Vedic astrologers have placed it at 25,920 years 
(108x240; 108 being the occult or mystic form of the number 100). While 
the exact details are not known, the general effect of the cycle is certain. 

Ancient astrology places humanity under the legendary four ages — 
the Golden, Silver, Bronze and Iron Ages. We find this idea among the 
Greeks as well as the Hindus, but the time period involved is not given. 
In Sanskrit these are called the “Yugas” or “world-ages” of Satya (which 
means “truth,” also called the fourth age), TVeta (which means “the third”), 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. ( UhjjjLI±A. 



The World Ages or the Cycles of the Yugas 57 

Dwapara (the “second”) and Kali (the “first”). Manu fixed their duration 
at, respectively, 4000, 3000, 2000 and 1000 years, plus a transitional 
period of Vio of their respective length both before and after. This makes 
a total of 4800 years for the Golden Age, 3600 for the Silver Age, 2400 
for the Bronze Age and 1200 for the Iron Age years. The total for all four 
ages is 12,000 years. Two cycles of the four ages make up the 24,000 year 
precessional cycle. 

Each precessional cycle is thereby divided into two halves: an “as¬ 
cending” half, in which the Sun is moving towards the point on its orbit 
closest to the galactic center, and a “descending” half, when it is moving 
to the point on its orbit farthest from the galactic center. In the ascending 
half we move from the Iron to the Bronze, Silver and Golden Ages; in the 
descending half we move from the Golden Age to the Silver, Bronze and 
Iron Ages. This creates a cycle of ascending Iron, Bronze, Silver and 
Golden Ages, then descending Golden, Silver, Bronze and Iron. In this 
system we do not move directly from the dark age to the Golden Age, as 
some other interpretations indicate, but must pass through all the interme¬ 
diate ages. 

The level of true intelligence on Earth is said to diminish one quarter 
for each world-age. At the high point of the Golden Age it is 100%. At 
the low point of the Iron Age it is 25%. In the Bronze it is 50% and the 
Silver, 75%. This is symbolized by the Bull of the dharma or truth who 
loses one leg during each of the Yugas- 

According to some Vedic astrologers, the point of the Sun’s orbit 
farthest from the galactic center occurred around 500 A.D. This is when 
the point of the vernal equinox was at the first degree point of the 
constellation Aries. This is the point of greatest darkness on Earth, since 
which time there has been a gradual increasing of the light. Variant views 
place this date sometime between 200-550 A.D. as it is the same issue as 
that of the Ayanamsha. It should be noted that this is a later date than that 
thought of by Western astrologers, who would place the vernal equinox 
at the beginning of Aries around the time of Christ. 

Hence, while many Western astrologers are putting us in the Age of 
Aquarius today, Vedic astrologers would place it up to 500 years in the 
future (though by the measurements given here some of them do agree 
we are in a different world-age this century). 


£ 7 'Mxixrlxrn£cjtLL WfLUjthS. 



58 


The Astrology of the Seers 


The historical dates that correspond to the four Vedic world-ages (as 
according to the information given by Sri Yukteswar in his book The Holy 
Science, pgs. 12-13) are as follows: 


DESCENDING AGE 

11,501 B.C. — 6701 B.C. GOLDEN 

6701 B.C. — 3101 B.C. SILVER 

3101 B.C. — 701 B.C. BRONZE 

701 B.C. — 499 A.D. IRON 


ASCENDING 

7699 A.D. — 12,499 A.D. 

4099 A.D. — 7699 A.D. 

1699 A.D. — 4099 A.D.— r — 
499 A.D. — 1699 A.D. 


Considering the transitional periods, there is an intermediate age 
between the Iron and Bronze Ages at 1599-1899 A.D. By this we see that 
we are in the ascending Bronze Age (Dwapara Yuga). This is the New 
Age we have just entered into, evidenced by the great advances in science 
and technology. It is no longer the dark Iron Age, as some continue to 
think; yet it is far from the Golden Age as well. Moreover, it is in its early 
stages and has not presented its complete form at this time. This may not 
occur fora few centuries, when the vernal equinox actually will enter into 
Aquarius. Until then, some difficulties in moving into this new era will 
occur, indicated by wars, pollution, famine and possible cataclysms. 

Again, this system is approximate and may have to be modified but 
its general features are quite useful in helping us understand the develop¬ 
ment of human history. 


THE GREATER CYCLE OF WORLD AGES 

According to the more commonly known view of Vedic and Hindu, 
astrology humanity is said to be in a Kali Yuga, a dark or Iron Age of 
432,000 years. This is said to have begun at 3102 B.C. We should note, 
however, that this view is a speculation of medieval thinkers and has a 
number of problems in it, not to mention how pessimistic it appears! Even 
from the standpoint of Vedic and Puranic historical records it is question¬ 
able. Ancient texts mention many kings and sages not just of the preceding 
Bronze or Dwapara Age, but also of the Golden and Silver Ages (Satya 
and Treta Yugas). If this longer Yuga cycle is the one referred to, such 
people would have to have lived hundreds of thousands if not millions of 
years ago! 

For example, the avatar Rama is a well known figure of Treta Yuga, 
the Silver Age. He is placed in the Puranic list of kings some 35 
generations before Krishna. Yet if the Kali Yuga of 432,000 years began 
at 3100 B.C., Rama would have to have lived at least 868,000 years before 
that to be in the TVeta Yuga of this longer cycle. According to the 
precessional view of the Yugas by Sri Yukteswar, to be in the Treta Yuga, 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. ( EJU-il£IlA. 



The World Ages or the Cycles of the Yugas 59 

Rama would have to have lived somewhere between 6700-3100 B.C., 
which is much more likely. 

However, this issue is complicated because different cycles, shorter 
and longer, exist. Besides the 24,000 year precessional cycle, there are 
other longer cycles of hundreds of thousands and millions of years. This 
is just in our usual lives, where we have such cycles within cycles as the 
day, the month and the year. 

From the standpoint of such a greater cycle, we may indeed be in a 
Kali Yuga or Iron Age phase, perhaps one of 432,000 years (though I am 
not certain that this is its duration). Within that greater cycle of Kali Yuga, 
however, we do appear to be in a lesser cycle Bronze Age phase of 2400 
years or so. 

I see humanity to be in a greater dark age phase, because even in the 
Golden and Silver Ages of the lesser cycle as evidenced in the Vedas, the 
great majority of human beings appear to remain on a materialistic or vital 
plane level, concerned mainly with the ordinary goals of family, wealth 
and personal happiness. Only the higher portion of humanity, the cultural 
elite of a few percent, appears to experience the full benefits of the ages 
of light. This is the same as today when the majority of human beings live 
on the same emotional level as before, and only a few really understand 
the secrets of science and technology, though all benefit from them. 

This greater Iron Age, however, may not have started in 3102 B.C. We 
may not have enough information yet to know when exactly it began or 
how far into it we are. 

The confusion of the lesser and greater cycles has led to some errors 
in the occult view of history. H.R Blavatsky and many of those in her line 
of approach also did this, as they based their views on the same Hindu 
texts that used the longer cycle and did not understand the precessional 
cycle. This caused her to make the ages of ancient civilizations and earlier 
humanities many times longer than what they probably really were. On 
the other hand, modem historians, with their lack of sensitivity to spiritual 
and occult knowledge, make the ancient cultures many times shorter than 
they were. The truth appears to be that ancient civilizations like India go 
back at least ten thousand years. 

CYCLES OF HUMANITY 

A culture cannot apprehend the existence of any culture higher than 
itself in the cycle of world-ages. Our history only really goes back to the 
cultures of the second or Bronze Age that began around 3100 B.C., like 
those of ancient Egypt, Babylonia and Assyria, which were in proximity 
to our Greek cultural matrix. Actually such cultures were typical of the 
entire world at that time. Earlier cultures of the third and fourth (Silver 


£ 7 1 MjcLo4xjtijjcjclL tf^iuLh.A. 



60 The Astrology of the Seers 

and Golden) Ages existed as well. These we cannot find because we do 
not understand the level on which they existed. While highly spiritual, 
they were not so advanced technologically. Cultures of the previous cycle 
of world-ages before 12,000 B.C. we are not aware of at all. Ttaces of them 
were largely eliminated by the Ice Age and the flood which followed its 
end. 

Such cycles of human cultures have gone on before. It is not possible 
to say how many but civilizations such as we know of have been in 
existence for many tens of thousands of years, and probably for at least 
two hundred thousand years. Nor is there any end to such cycles in sight. 
By some accounts it may take up to a million years of evolution for the 
average soul to pass through the human domain. In this regard the human 
race may be quite young, even at an age of several hundred thousand years. 
Technology, particularly in the form we have it today with all of its 
pollution, appears as a rare and transient phase of human culture. It cannot 
exist very long — at most a century or two — without destroying the 
planet. If it existed in previous humanities, as it well may have, it would 
have been passed through quickly and the damage it caused may have 
been cleaned up (which is why we don’t find remains of it). We are going 
to have to move to a cleaner and more natural form of technology, like 
solar, in order to survive in the long run. 

The majority of human cultures have always been religious and 
spiritual rather than materialistic in nature. All ancient and medieval 
cultures were of a religious bent, and those of the orient have remained 
largely so into the modem age. Technology, in its gross invasive form that 
disrupts the natural environment, may not characterize human culture, but 
rather may be a temporary deviation from true human culture which is 
that of the spirit. 

Each precessiona! cycle marks a different age of humanity. Our 
present world-age began with the end of the Ice Age over ten thousand 
years ago. Its early beginnings, the Golden and Silver Ages, are recorded 
in the hymns of the Rig Veda, the oldest scripture of India. TVaces of this 
teaching are found in mythology all over the world and in the ancient 
world-wide solar religion. What archaeologists see as the beginning of 
agriculture and civilization in early ancient times was probably merely a 
shifting of culture brought on by many geological and climatic changes 
relative to the new age. 

According to the Vedic view and the testimony of the ancients, the 
Earth goes through major changes of geography and climate. For example, 
a mere ten thousand years ago Chicago was under a permanent mass of 
ice, as was the whole Great Lakes region and much of the northern 
hemisphere. Such global renovations are experienced by human beings 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. SJ^LiuLh-A. 



The World Ages or the Cycles of the Yugas 61 

as cataclysms such as earthquakes and floods. Many such dramatic 
changes are recorded in books like the Bible or the Vedas. While they are 
often dismissed as superstition, evidences of great earthquakes and floods 
can be found in the ancient world. Recent archaeological work in India 
has found that the coast of western India sunk up to 200 feet around 1500 
B.C. Many important ancient rivers have long since gone dry, though we 
can trace their dry river banks through aerial photographs, like the Vedic 
Saraswati that used to flow five miles wide through what is now the desert 
of Rajasthan. 

Such global cataclysms usually correspond with changes of world- 
ages. Because of these changes, traces of earlier civilizations may be 
eradicated, which is another reason why we are unable to find them before 
a certain point. Nature goes through constant changes and the Earth is 
renovated periodically including clearing out the influences of previous 
humanities. 

It is difficult for humanities of one world-age to see or appreciate”/ 
those of a previous world-age. Our present world-age humanity originated 
with certain seed cultures in the Himalayas during the end of the Ice Age. 
The previous world-age humanity was Atlantean. The existence of such 
previous world-ages is only accepted by students of the occult, and what 
they were is much in doubt, with many different opinions abounding. 
Some of these are based on racial memories but they can be subjective or 
confused. Yet the fact that such cultures existed long before our so-called j 
beginnings of history is beyond doubt to those of deeper perception. 

ASCENDING AND DESCENDING CYCLES 

( The two halves of the processional cycle have their characteristic 
differences of mentality. In the descending side the spiritual energy is 
decreasing or retreating from a point of fullness, while in the ascending 
side it is increasing and expanding from a point of deficiency. 

It is difficult for cultures in the ascending half of the world-ages to 
understand those in the descending half. Descending cultures, like those 
of the orient, are traditional, conservative and authoritarian. They are 
trying to preserve the light of truth from the past, the previous ages of 
light. Most ancient cultures were of this order. Ancient Egypt was a typical 
kind of descending culture. It became so enmeshed in its cult of the past, 
which became a cult of death, that it eventually perished of its own inertia. 

Ascending cultures, on the other hand, are non-traditional, liberal and 
revolutionary. They are moving towards the light of truth in the future, 
which has yet to be defined. Western culture is based upon Greco-Roman 
influences, which don’t go back before 500 B.C. and did not entirely 
surface until the Renaissance. Hence, it cannot understand cultures which 


^7#it/<rZtra.Zc.a/ ( EJU-il£IlA. 



62 1 The Astrology of the Seers 


originated from earlier world Views. America today is a more limited type 
of ascending culture since its origins only go back a few centuries. It is 
basically an ascending Bronze Age or Dwapara Yuga culture. It is 
characterized by a seeking of light and truth, but in a superficial way. 

There is thus a natural misunderstanding or hostility between de¬ 
scending or traditional and ascending or non-traditional cultures, such as 
we see in the world today. Descending cultures are based on a higher 
spiritual truth, but it has often become so rigid, traditionalized, and 
stereotyped that it may misrepresent what it originally meant, as with the 
caste system in India. Ascending cultures are more open and creative, 
have freedom of thought and inquiry, but often in an arbitrary way that 
may be far from any real basis in tfuth. They appear immature, material¬ 


istic, and sensate oriented. 

What is necessary is to combine both these cultural influences in a 
positive way. The freedom and humanitarianism of the ascending mind 
needs the balance of the reverence and spirituality of the descending mind. 
As we go more forward in our cycle of development, we will be able to 
see back further and make such an integration. This is one of the great 
challenges of the world today, which can only be met with great effort. 
The divisions of East and West, spiritual and material, ancient and modem 


— which are so strong in our minds — show this problem.J 


BEYOND TIME 

Within all these cycles there is an ongoing human evolution, a spiral 
of growth. Even if humanity falls for a time, it will arise again with new 
force. Though we have fatten spiritually /rom early ancient cultures, we 
may have gained something materially and intellectually which should 
ptoye to enhance our ascent back to those heights. Ultimately, humanity 
is moving towards the point wherein we can transcend all external 
influences and live in a perpetual Golden Age — wherein we will return 
to our inner Self that stands above the influences of time. No one can say 
when this great leap will occur. It is possible at any time; but so far it has 
been quite rare for individuals to be able to transcend the influence of the 
times in which they live. We cannot expect it soon for the majority. Some 
of us can see the greater potentials of our world-age; fewer yet can see the 
potentials of more advanced world-ages; still fewer can discover the 
eternal which is our real home — but even one such soul becomes a 
beacon for all hbmanity and shakes the foundation of the ignorance which 
rules us. 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. ( EJU-il£IlA. 



63 


The World Ages or the Cycles of the Yugas 

HARMONIZATION WITH THE GALACTIC CENTER 

An important cosmic event is occurring now. The winter solstice is 
now at a point in conjunction with the galactic center. There is some doubt 
as to the exact location of this point. Again, I would place it at 06° 40' 
Sagittarius sidereally or about 29° Sagittarius tropically. This would place 
it, at present, one degree from an exact conjunction with the winter 
solstice. The conjunction would be exact in 50- i00 years. 

This should causes a slow harmonization of humanity with the Divine 
will as transmitted from the galactic center. Much of the new spiritual 
thinking and the potential cataclysmic changes on the planet may be from 
this attunement process that insists we enter into a new ascending age of 
light and cast off the shadows of the dark ages of strife and dissension. 
Though some global shock and suffering must be endured, the outcome 
can only be for the good. We should have faith in the Divine will behind 
this process and not give into the fear and despair that the present state of 
the world can evoke in us. Though we may not be quickly ushered into a 
Golden Age or age of enlightenment, much positive growth will occur. A 
shift in history as significant as any to date may be experienced, with a 
movement from darkness to light such as our history as yet does not know. 

By the accounts of ancient thinkers like Plato, the flood that destroyed 
Atlantis (and probably ended the Ice Age) occurred about 9300 B.C. (9000 
years before Plato). This appears to have been when the summer solstice 
was in conjunction with the galactic center — a point completely opposite 
to the one today. Hence L more reverence for the Divine and cosmic powers 
would be a gooc^ thing for, our culture. We may be under cosmic laws, 
which having violated, we may have to suffer for. It was not just super¬ 
stition that caused the ancients to tremble before God and beg his mercy; 
it may have been such experiences of global retribution which we may 
yet see. 

THE STAR VEGA 

Ancient and oriental astrology puts much weight on the pole star. It 
holds that the north pole is the spiritual pole of the globe from which 
higher influences come into the planet. However, the north pole star does 
not remain the same through the processional cycle either. At the opposite 
side of the processional cycle, the point of greatest light, the bright star 
Vega (alpha Lyra), serves to mark the north pole. 

Vega is part of a special constellation used in Vedic astrology called 
“Abhijit,” or “complete victory.” It is said to be ruled by “Brahma” or the 
cosmic creative power. It is the only one of the lunar constellations far 
from the zodiac. 


£ 7 1 MjcLo4xjtijjcjclL SI^lujLIlA. 



64 


The Astrology of the Seers 


Vedic astrology shows a connection between our sun and the star 
Vega. Vega may be a controlling star for our Sun, its guide, or perhaps our 
Sun may revolve around it, or with it around some greater center. Vedic 
astrology looks back to the time of some fifteen thousand years ago when 
Vega was the north pole star. Apart from the galactic center, Vega may be 
the other point of light which governs life and spiritual evolution on Earth, 
which we should take note of. Krishna in the Bhagavad Gita states, “Of 
the constellations, I am Abhijit.” 


£7 'HxixrlxrajjcjtLL ( EJhju£JlA. 



PART II 


THE METHODOLOGY OF 
VEDIC ASTROLOGY 



Mars 



“Dressed in red, with a red body, who 
has four arms, the son of the Earth, whose 
vehicle is a ram, who carries a trident, 
spear and mace in his hands, with a coral 
crest jewel on his head, making the gesture 
that gives boons, may Divine Mars ever 
grant us his grace. ” 

Snsbrlmicjal 


1 

THE PLANETS 


THE GREAT COSMIC SIGNIFICATORS 


^According to Vedic astrology, the planets are relay stations for the 
reception and transmission of stellar energies^ We should not just view 
them in a local light for what they may be doing within our solar system; 
they are also bringing to us t)ie forces of the galaxy, of the universe itself. 
Hence, we like to emphasize the following point: 

The essence of astrology is in understanding the meaning of the 
planets. The meaning of the signs, houses, aspects and other 
astrological factors is determined by the planets which rule and 
significate them. Astrology is nothing but the science of the 
planets, as the forces of the stars are governed by and manifest 
through them. 

Each planet (and the concept of planet includes both the Sun and the 
Moon) governs one portion of the cosmic creative ray, upholds its 
vibration in the solar system. Therefore, it is necessary, as a basis for 
astrological study, to have a firm grasp of the meaning of the planets, their 
various indications and levels of correspondence. Astrological thinking 
is largely planetary thinking but according to the planets as cosmic 
significators, encompassing all domains of life and the evolution of 
consciousness. 

We are all different combinations and degrees of the energies of the 
planets. Each of us is usually stamped by the rule of one planet as our 
planetary type. Most of the action we do in life is according to the nature 
of the planet which dominates us. Most of our relationships are according 
to our planetary affinities. Therefore, once we have understood the 
meaning of the planets, we can comprehend the whole basic field of 
possibilities of human life. 

THE SEQUENCE OF THE PLANETS 

In Vedic astrology, the seven major or visible planets are normally 
listed in order of the days they rule: Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, 
Venus, Saturn for Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, 
Friday, and Saturday. 


£ 7 1 MjcLo4xjtijjcjclL tf^iuLh.A. 



68 The Astrology of the Seers 

This shows an interweaving of two sequences, which is the way the 
planets normally distribute their energies. The inner planets (those be¬ 
tween the orbit of the Earth and the Sun) occur between the outer planets. 

SUN • MARS • JUPITER • SATURN 

MOON • MERCURY • VENUS 

NUMEROLOGY OF THE PLANETS 

Each planet is given a certain number based upon this sequence: 

1. SUN 2. MOON 3. MARS 

4. MERCURY 5. JUPITER 6. VENUS 

7. SATURN 8. RAHU 9. KETU 

These numbers correspond to the energies of the planets. The Sun is 
one, which is unity, the prime number from which all the others proceed; 
it is the origin, the guide, the foundation. The Moon is two, which is 
duality and is the basis for the workings of the mind and emotion; it is 
relationship, balance and interchange. Mars is three, the number of will 
and energy; it is power, penetration and decision. Mercury is four, the 
number of order, balance and reason. Jupiter is five, the number of law 
and intelligence in manifestation. Venus is six, the number of harmony, 
beauty and relationship. Saturn is seven, the number of control, limit and 
completion. Rahu is eight, the number of dispersion and new beginnings. 
Ketu is nine, the number of realization and liberation. 

Planetary energy begins with the Sun and follows this sequence to 
Ketu at the end. Each planet represents a stage in the development and 
distribution of that solar energy. Each planet can be understood through 
the law of its respective number, which is usually common in the lives of 
those ruled by that planet.' 

ORDER OF PLANETARY SIGNIFICANCE 

Of the planets, the Sun and the Moon, as the two luminaries are most 
important. Next in importance are Mars, Jupiter and Saturn as the major 
planets beyond the orbit of the Earth. Then come Venus and Mercury as 
the major planets within the orbit of the Earth and therefore always close 
to the Sun. 

The Lunar Nodes, north and south, called Rahu and Ketu, regarded 
as shadowy or secondary planets, are of yet less importance. After them 
in significance we can place the distant planets of Uranus, Neptune and 
Pluto if we wish. 


£7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. SJ^LiuLh-A. 



The Planets: The Great Cosmic Significators 69 

THE PLANETS AND THE QUALITIES OF NATURE 

From great Nature, called Prakriti in Sanskrit, arise the three primal 
qualities, or gunas, of Sattva, Rajas and Tamas. 

Sattva is the higher quality and is of the nature of light, lightness, 
clarity, harmony, balance and intelligence. It is the divine quality and 
brings about the upward movement of the soul. It creates peace, love and 
faith and brings the human being into the spiritual life. 

Rajas is the intermediate quality and is of the nature of energy, action, 
turbulence, distraction, disturbance, violence and passion. It is the de¬ 
monic (asuric) quality and keeps the soul in the middle worlds. It creates 
aggression, competition, strife and pain and causes the human being to 
seek worldly acquisition and achievement as the main goal in life. 

Tamas is the lower quality and is of the nature of inertia, darkness, 
dullness, obstruction, heaviness and lethargy: It is the animal quality that 
keeps the soul bound in the lower and unconscious realms. It brings about 
servitude, decay, domination and destruction and causes the human being 
to become harmful, useless, unproductive and unintelligent. 

# Each of these three qualities is necessary in nature. Tamas gives 
stability, as in roles of the earth and the physical body. Rajas gives energy, 
as in the atmosphere and the'vital body. Sattva gives light, as in the place 
of heaven and the mind. 

Rajas and Tamas, however, do not naturally belong to or function 
rightly in the domain of the mind, which is the natural realm of Sattva. 
Tamas becomes the ignorance and lack of attention which veils the mind. 
Rajas fuels desire and fantasy that are projected through it. As astrology 
measures the mental quality, or Sattva, of the person, Tamasic and Rajasic 
energies become negative in the chart. All evolution spiritually is in 
reducing Rajas and Tamas and increasing Sattva. When Sattva is pure, it 
allows the perception of our true or Divine nature in which we go beyond 
the outer world. 

Prevalence of Sattvic planets in a chart shows ethical, religious and 
spiritual qualities and the soul in its ascent. Prevalence of Rajasic planets 
show worldly qualities and the soul in its state of attachment, seeking 
acquisitions and achievements in the outer world. Prevalence of Tamasic 
planets show lower qualities, destructive tendencies, and the soul in its 
state of descent. 

The planets are generally given the three qualities as follows: 

SATTVA Sun, Moon and Jupiter. 

RAIAS Mercury and Venus. 

TAMAS Mars and Saturn (also Rahu and Ketu). 


^HxixrlxralcjtMJ. tf^iuLh.A. 



70 The Astrology of the Seers 

We can place Uranus, Neptune and Pluto into a pattern of Uranus — 
Rajas, Neptune — Sattva, and Pluto — Tamas, though their influences 
here are rather weak. 

The planets also have secondary qualities. The Sun has some Rajas, 
since it provides not only perception but energy. The Moon has some 
Tamas or cloudiness to it. Mercury and Venus have some Sattva and can 
enhance qualities of compassion and devotion respectively. Mars and 
Ketu have some Rajas, as they give energy and power of will. 

Uranus, Neptune and Pluto, like the lunar nodes Rahu and Ketu, are 
usually overpowered by the nature of the planets they are associated with. 
Even mutable or sensitive planets, like the Moon and Mercury, can take 
on any quality according to influences and associations. 

The above scheme is the natural status of the planets according to the 
three qualities. Other factors like rulership of Sattvic Houses (1, 4, 5 8u> 
9), Rajasic Houses (2,7,10,& 1 l)orTamasicHouses(3,6,8& 12)should 
be examined. The nature of the signs in which the planets are located must 
also be considered (see section). In this regard we cannot always put too 
much weight on the qualities the planets generally represent. 

/ Harmoniously placed and balanced planetary influences tend towards 
Sattva. Conflicting planetary influences make for Rajas. Lack of commu¬ 
nication between planets makes for Tamas. Generally, preponderance of 
spiritual factors in the chart makes for Sattvic type, preponderance of 
egoistic factors creates Rajasic types, and lack of integration in a chart 
tends towards the Tamasic. 

For these reasons, the ultimate determination of the state of the three 
gunas in the chart is a complex decision. It is part of the whole ascertain¬ 
ment of the mental and spiritual nature of the person. It may depend 
somewhat on the nature of the soul, as more evolved souls will use the 
higher aspects of their planetary energies, and less evolved souls will 
gravitate towards the lower. Higher souls will relate more to their Sattvic 
planets, intermediate to their Rajasic, and lower to their Tamasic influ¬ 
ences. For. this reason some astrologers refuse to make any spiritual 
judgement of the person based upon the chart alone. All astrologers should 
learn those factors which increase Sattva and encourage them in all their 
clients. 

ELEMENTS OF THE PLANETS 

From the three gunas in the sequence of cosmic evolution arise the 
five elements. From Sattva comes ether. From Rajas comes air and fire. 
From Tamas comes water and earth. 

However, elements in harmony, balance or in their right place tend 
owards Sattva; those in conflict move towards Rajas; and those discon- 


£7 ^MxlxrlxralcjqJ. SJ^LiuLh-A. 



71 


The Planets: The Great Cosmic Significators 

nected fall towards Tamas. In this regard a chart with a lot of earth may 
not be Tamasic. It may manifest the harmonious use of the earth element 
or Sattvic earth qualities like devotion, loyalty, friendship and sensitivity 
to the world of nature. 

The traditional association of elements and planets in Vedic astrology 
is as follows: 

ETHER Jupiter WATER Moon and Venus 

AIR Saturn and Rahu EARTH Mercury 1 

FIRE Sun, Mars and Ketu 

The Sun represents fire and indicates the fire element in general in 
the chart. Yet as a dry planet, it contains some air as its secondary element. 

The Moon represents water and indicates the water element in general 
in the chart. Yet when weak in luminosity (close to the Sun), it tends to 
become airy. When combust (within 15 degrees of the Sun), it can even 
represent fire, because as a mutable planet it takes on the influence of the 
planets with which it is associated. 

* Mars represents fire and indicates more specifically the fire element 
in the chart. Yet as a heavy planet it contains earth as its secondary element. 

Mercury is said by many to represent the element of earth in the chart, 
as it indicates basic earthly qualities of objective perception, commerce 
and communication. As a fast moving planet it is sometimes said to 
represent air, and by its subtle nature is said to represent ether. As a 
changeable or mutable planet, it tends to take upon itself the influence of 
the planets with which it is associated. 

Jupiter, by its spiritual nature, is said to represent ether. Yet as a heavy 
and liquid planet, it represents water. This is particularly true in those 
systems that relate the planets to a four element system (excluding ether). 
As an expansive planet, it is said by some to rule over air. This is not so 
much the element it possesses as the one it controls. 

Venus represents water and indicates more specifically the water 
element in the chart, as Mars does fire. Yet as a light and somewhat mobile 
planet, it contains a secondary nature as air. 

Saturn, by its dry and nervous nature, is said to represent air. However, 
according to its attributes as dark, heavy, gross and coarse it may be said 
to rule over earth. Generally, when strong, it gives earthly qualities; when 
weak or afflicted, it creates air. 

Rahu (the north lunar node) is said to be like Saturn and is more 
specifically airy, though like Saturn, it can give the dark side of earth 
energy. Ketu (the south node) is said to be fiery like Mars, but secondarily 
airy. As usual, we must judge their conditions by the planets which 
influence them as they are shadowy planets. 


£7 'MxjxrlxrnlcjtLL tf^iuLh.A. 



72 The Astrology of the Seers 

Uranus has primarily an airy, changeable and disruptive nature. 
Neptune has primarily a watery but very subtle, almost etheric nature. 
Pluto, like Mars, has fire, but with secondary earth. 

We see, therefore, that several different but related systems of the 
elements can exist. This again is because the elemental nature of the 
planets is not entirely fixed. It depends upon which of their attributes are 
most pronounced in the chart according to different factors like location, 
aspects and rulerships. Personally, I like to modify the traditional Hindu 
system and make Saturn rule earth and Mercury rule air. We should always 
remember that no absolute system of correspondences exists because all 
aspects of nature are interdependent and mutually reflective. Hence, we 
should use such systems for what they are worth but not over weight them. 

These elements refer to the nature in general: physical, mental and 
spiritual. None of them are necessarily good or bad. We can discriminate 
higher or lower types among each of the elements. A higher earth type, 
the Sattvic type, would be a caretaker of the Earth like an environmental¬ 
ist. A lower earth type, the tamasic type, would be a thief, for example. 
But generally too much of the lower elements, like earth, and too strong 
earthly planets, like Saturn, will bring out the lower qualities of the soul, 
whereas a strong influence of the higher elements, like ether and air, as 
well as the planet Jupiter, will raise the soul upwards. 

However, harmony and balance between the elements is generally 
better than too much of any. It is the synthesis of factors in astrology that 
is the key. These individual planetary meanings are building blocks but 
cannot be made the basis of judgment in themselves. 

PLANETARY ATTRIBUTES AND ACTIONS 

From these three primary qualities, or gunas, arise other secondary 
qualities. From these come the primary actions or effects of the planets. 
They are outlined below as redefined in English, listing first the attributes 
and then the actions. 

Major Planets 

THE SUN Hot, radiant, light, dry, subtle, clear, sharp/active, guid¬ 
ing, expanding, penetrating, isolating, insensitive, de¬ 
structive 

THE MOON Cold, wet, heavy, mobile, fast, cloudy, soft, smooth/pas¬ 
sive, responsive, creative, relating, sensitive, 
nurturing 


£7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. SJ^LiuLh-A. 



The Planets: The Great Cosmic Significators 


73 


MARS ' 

Hot, radiant, heavy, cloudy, sharp, coarse, mobile/ ac¬ 
tive, aggressive, penetrating, contracting, isolating, 
insensitive, destructive 

MERCURY 

Neutral, light, subtle, mobile, fast, smooth, clear/muta¬ 
ble, responsive, relating, sensitive, expressive 

JUPITER 

Neutral, moist, heavy, static, clear, calm, slow/active, 
expanding, creative, relating, guiding, sensitive 

VENUS 

Cool, moist, light, smooth, soft, subtle, cloudy/passive, 
responsive, relating, sensitive, creative, expressive 

SATURN 

Cold, dark, dry, heavy, slow, rough, hard, static, gross, 
dull, coarse/resisting, retarding, contracting, isolating, 
insensitive, destructive -— 

Lunar Nodes 

RAHU 

Cold, dry, light, mobile, subtle, dark, cloudy/retrogradc, 
expansive, destructive, isolating, insensitive, 
disintegrating 

KETU 

Hot, dry, dark, light, sharp, mobile, fast/retrograde, iso¬ 
lating, contracting, destructive, penetrating, guiding, re¬ 
leasing 

Distant Planets 

URANUS 

Cold, dry, light, subtle, sharp, mobile, fast, active/inven¬ 
tive, disturbing, disintegrating, isolating, destructive, in¬ 
sensitive 

NEPTUNE 

Cold, wet, light, subtle, cloudy, soft/passive, relating, 
sensitive, diffusive, disintegrating 

PLUTO 

Hot, dry, heavy, sharp, hard, coarse, rough/active, 
aggressive, penetrating, isolating, destructive, 
insensitive, disturbing 


This science of qualities, actions, and elements is common to all 
branches of Vedic Science. It is its very basis as an objective ascertainment 
of the nature of things; hence, we should learn to see these attributes in 
the life around us. When, for example, we see a cold, dry and dark 
situation, we should note that Saturn’s influence must be prevalent since 
its attributes predominate. Therefore, the situation must be under a Satum- 


^HxixrlxralcjtMJ. tf^iuLh.A. 



74 The Astrology of the Seers 

ian influence, transit, or planetary period, or dominated by a Saturnian 
personality. The planets merely represent qualities in nature. The lan¬ 
guage of astrology is just another form of the language of nature and her 
basic energetic attributes. For this reason, good astrologers can intuit the 
planetary influences in things by reading their attributes without even 
having to examine an astrological chart. 

It would take too much space to explain all these attributes in detail, 
and how they function and interrelate. Please meditate upon these attri¬ 
butes and their planetary forms yourself. What follows are a few typical 
indications. 

Planets which are creative will further our projects in life; those which 
are destructive in action will limit them. For example, creative planets will 
be good for children and destructive planets will tend to deny them. On 
the other hand, too many creative planets may get us too caught in the 
outer affairs of life, while destructive planets may also remove us from 
the lower aspects of life. 

Planets which are sensitive will increase our openness to others; those 
which are insensitive will cause us to focus more on our own individual 
needs. Planets which are relating will connect us to things; those which 
are isolating or separating will remove us from them. 

These factors work on both the body and the mind. Hot planets will 
make our body hot, and in excess will cause fever, infections or bleeding. 
Cold planets will make our body cold, causing weak digestion, poor 
circulation, pallor and chills. Heavy planets will cause us to put on weight. 
Light planets will cause us to lose weight. 

In the mind, cloudy planets will reduce perception whereas clear 
planets will increase it. Slow planets will make our minds function slower, 
and fast planets will increase its rate of activity. Again, no quality is 
essentially good or bad, and too much of any quality can cause problems. 

KEY INDICATORS OF PLANETS 

Each planet relates to various factors in ourselves and our lives. It 
becomes an indicator or significator of certain things inwardly and out¬ 
wardly. The judgment on them depends upon how that planet is oriented 
i in the chart. For example, the Sun is the significator of the father. If the 
Sim is strong, the father will usually be strong, healthy and successful. 

Naturally, each planet indicates many things. To be more specific, 
other factors, like various houses and their rulers, must be brought into 
consideration. 

THE SUN Father, ego, self, soul, individuality, rational mind, 
honor, status 


^7#Lt/<rZtm.Zc.a/ 



The Planets: The Great Cosmic Significators 


75 


THE MOON 

Mother, emotions, personality, sociability, happiness, 
home, popularity 

MARS 

Brothers, friends, enemies, enmity, injury, energy, logic, 
science 

MERCURY 

Childhood, education, intellect, speech, commerce, voca¬ 
tion, adaptability 

JUPITER 

Husband (for woman), guru, dharma, principle, wealth, 
fortune, grace, children, creativity, health 

VENUS 

Wife (for man), beloved, love, art, conveyances, beauty, 
comfort, charisma, charm 

SATURN 

Death, longevity, old age, disease, loss, sorrow, prop¬ 
erty, fate, limitation, obstruction, detachment 

RAHU 

Disease, psychic disturbances, collective trends, mass 
disturbances, epidemics 

KETU 

Injury, enmity, death, negation, knowledge, liberation, 
psychic or spiritual insight 

URANUS 

Shock, disturbance, transformation, eccentricity, inven¬ 
tion 

NEPTUNE 

Psychic sensitivity, imagination, illusion, charm 

PLUTO 

Will, domination, manipulation, catastrophes 

PLANETS AS BENEFIC OR MALEFIC 

Planets have long been classified as to whether their influence is 
benefic or malefic. This has often been simplistically rendered as good 
and bad, according to a moralistic concept of good and evil (often 
depending upon what religion one follows). Thus it has given rise to a 


stereotyped, judgmental or moralistic thinking, as if life were nothing but 
a school of reward and punishment and that the stars had no higher purpose 
then to administer justice to deviant mortals. Still, there is a truth behind 
these concepts which remains useful and important. 

Benefic planets generally increase, promote, further, expand or bring 
to fruition the affairs of the planets, signs, and houses they influence. 
Malefic planets generally decrease, obstruct, harm, limit or destroy the 
affairs of the planets, signs and houses they influence. 


^7#it/<rZtra.Zc.a/ ( EJU-il£IlA. 



76 


The Astrology of the Seers 


In a very broad sense, one could say that malefic planets cause disease, 
difficulties, delays, conflicts, separations, poverty and suffering. Benefic 
planets promote health, ease, comfort, peace, harmony, abundance and 
happiness. However, in actual prediction much greater precision is re¬ 
quired than this, and planetary influences combine in many ways. 

Malefic planets can function in a positive way by negating negative 
factors in the chart, such as disease or poverty. In fact, such instances of 
^ negative influenc es canceling each other in the chart represent the greatest 
-4 L°°d fortune . Not only is^ good fortune gained, but potential negative 
side-effects are also neutralized. In t he same ^yay, benefir pl anets ran 
fu nction negatively. T oo many benefic influences can render a person 
weafc ancTself indulgent and make his or her life too easy, superficial and 
without challenges. 

In Vedic astrology, the nature of planets as benefic or malefic is not 
entirely fixed. There are two different ways of judging this. The first is 
^called their “natural status" — Jupiter as benefic, Saturn as malefic, and 
. so on. This has been the main factor used in Western astrology, particularly 
in the Middle Ages. There is in Vedic astrology a second factor called the 
“temporal status.” This depends upon wh ich sign govern s the A scenda nt 
in thegartioiriaf-chart. The nature of planets as positive or negative, 
behefic or malefic, creative or destructive, varies with each Ascendant 
according to which houses the planets are ruling. 

For example, the ruler of the Ascendant, even if it is Saturn, becomes 
benefic in its temporal status (as for a Capricorn Ascendant). Similarly, 
rulers of negativ e house s (houses that indicate misfortune, disease, death 
orotherduricuities in life, like the Sixth house) will become temporally 
malefic, even if they happen to be Jupiter, which in natural status is the 
best benefic. This will be discussed in detail in the section on the houses, 
as it is one of the most important and unique principles of this system of 
astrology. 

To determine the benefic or malefic nature of a planet, both its natural 
and temporal statuses must be carefully considered. Moreover, planetary 
nature changes with planetary association. Such influences are aspects 
between planets and the nature of the signs and houses in which they are 
located. Friendship and enmity between planets comes into consideration 
here. A preponderance of malefic influences and aspects can neutralize a 
benefic planet. ' .— - 

Some astrologers have suggested that the terms benefic and malefic 
be done away with, like those of good and evil. Such terms as expansive 
and contractive planets may be preferable in many instances, as these 
writers suggest, or planets which create or resolve difficulties. Yet the 
capacity of badly disposed planets to do harm in life should not be 


£7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. ( EJU-il£IlA. 



The Planets: The Great Cosmic Significators 


77 


underestimated, nor can the influences of such difficult planets be very 
easily neutralized. Similarly, the capacity of well-disposed planets to 
bring unexpected help or benefits should not be overlooked. Planets may 
not function in a simplistic way, but they do function according to cosmic 
forces beyond our control that can raise us up or bring us down in ways 
we could never do of our own accord. 

—Which planets we consider to be benefic or malefic depends to a great 
extent on what we want in life, according to our goals and values. Life 
has many domains and what is good for one field of life may not be good 
for another. For example, what is good for wealth may not be good for 
spiritual development. For the spiritual life, which depends upon detach- i 
ment, malefics like Saturn may be very positive in destroying our desire | 
or capacity to accumulate wealth. In this way they can aid in driving our 
consciousness inward. 

Sometimes a planet may be good for one aspect but not for another 
within the same domain. A planet may give wealth or prestige but weaken 
one’s health, thereby furthering some of the outer goals of life but not all 
of them. We can observe this in regular human life where overwork may 
be good for one’s business but not for one’s vitality. The planets must be 
as complex as life in their functioning. 

While we use the terms malefic and benefic here, it is in a more 
adaptable sense than a simplistic good and bad. We see in these terms a 
cosmic sense that can help us understand astrology on a deeper level. It 
is the ancient sense of life as a battle between light and darkness, the gods 
and the demons, cosmos and chaos. The planets were seen as the matrix 
of this battle and were regarded as capable of transmitting or even 
personifying these conflicting forces. Astrology is a dead and sterile thing 
without this mythos and this cosmic symbolism of light and dark. 

The benefic and malefic effects of planets, based on their underlying 
nature, is given below — 

Planetary Natures 

Natural ^Disposition — Benefic and Malefic 

Greater Benefic Jupiter Greater Malefic Saturn & Rahu 

Lesser Benefic Venus Lesser Malefic Mars & Ketu 

General Benefic Moon & Mercury General Malefic Sun 

The Moon is considered generally benefic. It is a strong benefic when 
away from the Sun and bright in nature; it becomes malefic when close 
to the Sun and dark in nature. It is more benefic when waxing and more 
malefic when waning. Specifically, I consider it to become malefic when 
it is within 60 degrees of its conjunction with the Sun and until it is 30 


£ 7 1 MjcLo4xjtijjcjclL tf^iuLh.A. 



78 The Astrology of the Seers 

degrees past the Sun. Some books count the Moon as malefic when within 
72 degrees of the Sun; others regard the waxing or increasing Moon as 
benefic, and the waning or decreasing Moon as malefic. However, even 
when close to the Sun, in a good sign and with good aspects, its benefic 
nature can still come out. 

Mercury, like the Moon, is a general benefic. Mutable in nature, it 
easily takes on the nature of the planets with which it is associated and 
thus is sometimes regarded as neutral. The Moon possesses much of this 
same mutability or sensitivity. 

The lunar nodes, Rahu and Ketu, are generally somewhat more 
malefic than their planetary counterparts, Saturn and Mars, but as shad¬ 
owy planets they are more likely to take upon the nature of planets with 
which they are associated. In this way they can function as benefics. 

Uranus and Pluto, to a lesser degree than Rahu and Ketu to which 
they are similar, are generally malefic in nature. Pluto seems to be more 
malefic. Their influence as distant planets is not always strong in itself, 
though it is often strong in transits. Neptune also is a weak and mutable 
benefic, like Mercury, but to a lesser degree. The distant planets, like the 
lunar nodes, function more to magnify or transmit the influences of other 
planets. 

Natural disposition, as benefic or malefic, may be overridden by other 
factors, mainly temporal status. However, we find that natural benefics 
always do some good, even when otherwise malefically disposed. Natural 
malefics, similarly, always do some harm or create some difficulties or 
delays, even when otherwise benefically disposed. 

BENEFIC AND MALEFIC IN WESTERN ASTROLOGY 

These natural dispositions of planets as benefic or malefic generally 
agree with that of traditional Western astrology. The most notable differ¬ 
ence is that of the Sun, which Western astrology usually views as a benefic. 
Sometimes in Vedic astrology it can be the most malefic of the planets. 

The Sim, as a very powerful and hot planet, does have a destructive 
effect, like its desiccating effect in nature. It tends to limit or destroy the 
affairs of the house wherein it is located or which it aspects. 

The Sun in the Fifth house does tend to deny children or create 
difficulties with them. In the Seventh house it can cause separation or 
delays in relationship, partnership and other seventh house considerations. 
Even Western astrology recognizes such affects. It is similarly well- 
known that planets too close to the Sun (what is called in “combust”) do 
not usually give good results. The Moon also loses her strength and 
becomes weak the closer she gets to the Sun. Thus, the negative effects 
of the Sun’s influence are well known. 


£7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. SJ^LiuLh-A. 



The Planets: The Great Cosmic Significators 79 

However, the Sun in Vedic astrology is also regarded as a Sattvic or 
spiritual planet. This is quite different than the other malefics which are 
Tamasic, gross or unspiritual, in quality. Hence, in this sense of quality 
the Sun is a good planet and gives high values like self-esteem, integrity 
and independence. One such action, which is spiritually beneficially but 
materially malefic, is to help separate us from material abundance and 
worldly happiness and cause us to seek self-knowledge. Much of the 
Western sense of the Sun as a benefic can be understood in the Eastern 
sense of the Sun as a spiritual or Sattvic planet. 

DISPOSITORSHIP 

Planets project the influence of the planets located in the signs they 
rule. When, for example, Saturn and Mars are located in Cancer (the sign 
of the Moon), the Moon may take upon their negative natures. 

A planet is said to be the “dispositor” of the planets located in the 
signs that it rules. Generally it will rule over them and make them function 
according to its nature. If Saturn is in Sagittarius, for example, Jupiter will 
gain power over it and it will be less malefic than usual. However, if there 
are several such planets, and if they are strongly benefic or malefic, their 
nature can outweigh that of their ruler, who will come to function like 
them. Hence, to determine whether a planet is benefic or malific, we must 
also consider whether a planet is the ruler or dispositor of benefic or 
malefic planets. 

In fact, by this principle of dispositorship, any planet can come to 
function like any other. Jupiter can thereby function like a malefic-Satum 
and Rahu, or Saturn can function like a benefic Venus. The planets thus 
are points of energy transmission, and what energies they transmit de¬ 
pends as much on their associations as on their given nature. While the < 
planets do have their specific natures, they do not exist in isolation and 
can serve to reflect the other planets and their functions. This is simply | 
the relativity of all life. 

Sometimes one planet may become the “final dispositor” of all the 
planets in the chart. This occurs if all planets are in signs ruled by one 
planet or in those of planets located in its signs. For example, if Mercury 
is in Gemini with the Sun and Venus, Mefcury would be their dispositor. 
If the Moon and Saturn are located in Libra (another sign of Venus), and 
Jupiter and Mars in Aquarius (a sign of Saturn), then Mercury would 
become the final dispositor in the chart. Such a planet usually becomes 
very strong and marks the planetary type of the person. Much of the secret 
of astrology and the key to subtle chart interpretation is hidden in this 
principle of dispositorship. 


£ 7 1 MjcLo4xjtijjcjclL tf^iuLh.A. 



80 The Astrology of the Seers 

DESCRIPTION OF THE PLANETS 
The Sun 

/ know that great being who has the effulgence of the Sun beyond 
darkness. Only knowing him can one go beyond death. There is 
no other path for the journey. — Shukla Yajur Veda 31.18. 

The Sun has yellow eyes which dispense honey, his body is 
square, he is pure, bilious (pitta) in constitution, intelligent, 
masculine and tends towards baldness. — Parashari 3.23. 

The ancient Vedic religion upon which Vedic astrology is based, the 
religion of all the ancient world, was the religion of the Sun. The worship 
of the Sun was primary to all ancient cultures, including the religions and 
mythologies of our ancient Indo-European ancestors — the Greeks, Ro¬ 
mans, Celts, Germans and Slavs. It is the oldest and most natural form of 
human religion, as religion is seeking the light. As such, it is also the 
religion of the future as we once more return to our spiritual roots in the 
coming ages of light. 

The Sun is a grand symbol with a great mythology, a profound 
psychological and spiritual meaning. It is the image, the face of Truth 
itself. The Sun is God, the Divine incarnate in nature. The Sun is the Deva, 
the deity. To the ancients the Sun was the One God, which is the unity of 
(truth, not an exclusive and jealous deity. In our birth charts the Sun shows 
'our divinity (or lack of it), our unity and point of focus, our center and 
central purpose in life. It shows the light that we possess and which we 
aspire to expand. 

According to the solar religion of the Vedas, the Sun is the Atma, the 
Self of all the universe. The Sun is the Divine Being who dwells in the 
hearts of all beings as the true Self. The Sun is the Divine light and love 
which is the unity of all life. The Sun is the visible form and presence of 
the deity. In their worship of the Sun, the ancients recognized the presence 
and place of God in life. They were bringing the Divine light into life and 
making of their life and perception a thing of worship. 

The Sun symbolizes the cosmic intelligence, pure consciousness, or 
the enlightened Mind. The ancient solar religion was the religion of Divine 
life and of enlightenment. In much of this solar worship no images of the 
God were used. The Sun God was lauded in the sunlight, the sunlit path 
of clear awareness. (Images or forms, however, were used more com¬ 
monly in the worship of the Goddess who was the Earth or the Moon.) 
The winged disc of the Sun was used throughout the ancient world to 
symbolize the soul and its inherent perfection and transcendence of time. 
The Sun was sometimes worshipped in human representation as the 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. 



The Planets: The Great Cosmic Significators 


81 


cosmic man, o£fen made of gold, representing the true Man who contains 
within himself all the Gods. 

The saviour or sage worshipped in the ancient cultures was the son 
of the Sun, the presence of the Sun on Earth, the incarnation of the Divine 
light of truth. This symbolism is found even in Christianity where Christ 
is bom on the winter solstice, the day the Sun is bom again, as the days 
once more begin to get longer. It is found in Buddhism where the Buddha, 
as the enlightened or solar being, turns the wheel of the law, the Sun wheel. 

The first man, the father of the human race, was often seen as the son 
of the Sun (like the Hindu Manu). He was not always a fallen Adam but 
an incarnate Christ or enlightened master. The Sun is our spiritual father, 
our origin and our final resting place. At death the ancients prayed to 
merge into the Sun, to follow the path of light to the Gods and to the 
supreme light. That was thought to be the only way beyond sorrow and 
rebirth. 

The human being is meant to manifest the Divine light on Earth, to 
bring the light of truth into the material realm. As such, we are all children 
of the Sun, doing the cosmic labor of manifesting the light. We are portions 
of the sunlight projected to Earth to further the will of the Divine Sun in 
its creative play. To be conscious as souls we must awaken to this duty. 
To do this, we must awaken from the dream of illusion that we are just 
creatures of this life and its memories. 

The Sun dwells within the hearts of all of us as our inner Sun, our 
inner light and life. Without this inner light, no perception could be 
possible. Without this inner life, we could not even breathe. Just as there 
is the movement of the outer Sun through the constellations of the zodiac, 
so there is the movement of the inner Sun through the chakras of our subtle / 
or astral body (which reflects our birth chart). We will explore these 
themes further in our section on Yogic astrology. 

The Sun is not merely the luminary of our local solar system; it is our 
local manifestation of the cosmic or universal light. It brings to us the 
light, the life and the love from all the stars, whose children we are. It 
reflects the light from the galactic center, the central Sun of our galaxy. 

It connects us with the heart of all life and with all the forces of light, 
consciousness and intelligence. It is connected with the Suns in subtle 
realms as well as this physical world. It is a doorway to all the domains 
and powers of light. 

All the planets shine with the refleeted light of the Sun; they represent 
different solar rays. Hence, there is only one light in truth, which manifests 
in the Sun, which is all lights, and is inwardly the light of the mind. 

In Vedic astrology, therefore, the Sun is the principle of light, life and 
love, our true will and perception. It is the most important factor for 


^HxixrlxralcjtMJ. SI^lujLIlA. 



82 The Astrology of the Seers 

determining the spiritual life and potentials of the individual. It represents 
the soul — the causal body or reincarnating entity — whose will is behind 
our fate. It is also the mind or the mental principle on a lower level as 
reason, discernment, clarity and illumination. 

I A well-placed Sun gives intelligence, perception, strength of will and 

character. It affords endurance, stamina, vitality, positive spirit, direction, 
courage, conviction, confidence, leadership, independence and straight¬ 
forwardness. Without it, whatever we may do or accomplish in life will 
not be ours and will not give us inner strength or peace. An ill-placed Sun 
gives lack of intelligence, poor perception, weakness of will and character. 
It creates lack of endurance, low vitality, melancholy, fear, dependency 
or servitude, and deviousness or dishonesty. 

An overly strong but malefically disposed Sun creates pride, arro¬ 
gance, tyranny and control. It creates much of the same problems as Mars 
(or Saturn) when too strong. It can give a deceptive charisma and a 
dominating personality. When the Sun is strong we outshine everyone 
else for good or ill, depending on whether its disposition is benefic or 
malefic, conscious or unconscious. 

A weak but spiritually disposed Sun makes us receptive, wanting to 
do good, and self-effacing. Yet we may lack in confidence and come under 
the rule of other people. We will seek to sacrifice ourselves but may not 
know what to give ourselves over to. 

The Sun rules the heart, the organ of circulation and vitality, and a 
weak Sun gives problems here. Inwardly the heart is the organ of intelli¬ 
gence that regulates life, breath, aspiration and perception. The nature of 
the Sun in the chart shows who we really are in our hearts. The Sun shows 
who we are in ourselves, as an individual, as apart from how we appear 
or what roles we take. It, shows how we are with ourselves, in ourselves, 
and by ourselves. 

The Sun is our sense of self and indicates the level of our self-mani¬ 
festation. On the lower level, the Sun represents the ego. It shows our 
impulses towards power, prestige, fame, honor, respect, authority and 
control — all the things that give value and preeminence to our separate 
self and personal power. It shows where we shine, how we shine, and in 
what we shine, and how we illumine ourselves and our own lives. 

On the higher level, the Sun represents our soul as our power of direct 
cognition. It shows our aspirations, our creativity, our seeking for light 
and for truth, our integrity, our capacity to transcend external condition¬ 
ings and be a light unto ourselves. The Sun is who we really are, and along 
with the Sun in the chart is the question of identity, the search for our true 
Self, the great enquiry “Who am I?” It is this inner search that is the real 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. SJ^LiuLh-A. 



83 


The Planets: The Great Cosmic Significators 

basis for the psychology of astrology. The Sun directs its towards the Yoga 
of knowledge for the revelation of our inner being. 

J In terms of family relationships, the Sun represents the father. We can 
read through it the life of our father, our relationship to him, and his 
influence upon us. It is the role of the father to shape our sense of self, to 
provide us with direction and self-worth in life. It is the absence, weak¬ 
ness, or failure of the father in modem culture that is behind the many 
ego, identity, and self-image problems so many of us today possess. The 
son needs a beneficent father to give him a sense of self-strength, self- 
mastery, and the capacity to function capably in the world. The daughter 
needs a good father to provide her a sense of self-worth, integrity, and the 
capacity to be herself in the world. We can judge this by the Sun in the 
chart. 

The Sun shows the kinds of authority and the values which shape our 
lives. The Sun represents the king, the president, the political leader. It 
can indicate the government in general and whatever favors or promotions 
may come through it. It represents law and order, rule and reason, on 
higher or lower levels. 

The Sun represents spiritual authority and, along with Jupiter, can 
help us understand the nature of the guru or spiritual teaching we are most 
likely to follow. It shows our guiding light, principles, values and pre¬ 
cepts. 

! The inner purpose of the Sun in the chart is to aid in our transcendence. 
It takes us beyond things, negating their limitations. It may raise us to a 
high level outwardly in life but will inwardly push us beyond that. It 
operates to negate all things into the self. The Sun tends to deny the 
ordinary activities of life but only to command the extraordinary, the 
highest and the best 

The Sun will further us in the highest or most grandiose human 
strivings. It will give the power of independence, the capacity to become 
a value or a light unto ourselves, and will promote the growth of intelli¬ 
gence. While destructive of form and expression, it elevates the being and 
the intrinsic worth of things. It does not always give abundance but does 
give quality. It gives power, fame, mastery, and gloty but not always 
wealth or emotional happiness. 

In Sanskrit, there are innumerable names for the Sun. Most commonly 
he is called Surya, which means “the father, progenitor, enlivener, impel¬ 
ler.” He is the source of will, energy, motivation and inspiration, like the 
Greek Sun god Apollo. 


£ 7 1 MjcLo4xjtijjcjclL tf^iuLh.A. 



84 

The Moon 


The Astrology of the Seers 


The Moon is watery and airy (kapha and vata) in constitution, 
she is intuitive and has a round body; she has a luminous 
countenance, sweet speech, is changeable and moody. 

— Parashari 3.24. 

J As the Sun represents the cosmic masculine force, the Moon indicates 
the cosmic feminine force. The Sun is the God and the Moon is the 
Goddess; the Sun is the Deva and the Moon is the Devi. The Sun is the 
spirit and the Moon is its creative force, which becomes matter; the Sun 
is Shiva and the Moon is Shakti. Together they represent the great primal 
duality as masculine and feminine, active and passive, mind and body, 
day and night, independence and relationship, will and love. 

As the Sun is the Divine Father and creator, the Moon is the Divine 
Mother and creatrix. As the Sun rules time, the Moon governs space. As 
the Sun rules fire, the Moon rules water. 


As the Sun is the Self, the Moon is the mind. According to the Vedas 
from the Moon the mind (Sanskrit, “manas”) was bom. Yet the Sanskrit 
term for mind has a different meaning than the usual western one. Mind 
includes emotion and means feeling; it is consciousness in general that 
reflects up'on things. It means thought, care, consideration, as well as 
musing, dreaming, and imagining. As the Self is the point of central clarity 
and perception, the mind is the field of conception and manifestation. 

The Sun represents the Self, which is our independent, directly 
perceiving consciousness. The Moon shows the mind, which is our 
dependent, reflective, usually conditioned consciousness. As the Sun 
[ represents who we are in ourselves, the Moon shows how we relate to 
others, our social consciousness. As the Sun represents character or 
individuality, the Moon indicates our personality. 

/ The Sun shows the causal body, which indicates the will of the soul 
' to be achieved in incarnation. The Moon shows the astral body, the field 
of impressions or past karma operative behind the present incarnation. 
Hence, the Moon is an important karmic indicator. 

The Sun represents the present and future; the Moon, the past. The 
Sun shows who we are and who we are meant to be; the Moon shows who 
we have been and what of the past we bring with us. Thus, the Moon can 
show positive resources from the past which give us greater consciousness 
in life, or it can show negative influences from the past that bind us to 

r gressive patterns of behavior. 

Afflictions to the Moon show personality disorders, difficulties in 
relating to other people, and emotional disturbances. A badly placed 
Moon gives wrong imaginings, hallucinations, and psychological turbu- 


£ 7 'MxlxrlxFTLLGjaJ. SJ^LUjLh-A. 



The Planets: The Great Cosmic Significators 


85 


Ience. It creates lunacy, as our language reflects. A badly afflicted Moon 
shows bad heredity, poor family background, bad education, and other 
traumas to the emotional nature that may be very difficult to overcome 
and may indicate severe imbalance or disruption of the astral body. 

The Moon shows our capacity to receive and to be affected, but it also 
indicates our capacity to be hurt. It is the most easily hurt of the planets 
and indicates our general vulnerability. 

J A strong Moon, on the other hand, shows sensitivity, receptivity, 
caring for others, and a nurturing attitude in life. It gives emotional 
maturity, responsibility, and the capacity to have a beneficial effect upon 
society. 

The Moon, like the Sun, is a Sattvic or spiritual planet. It gives faith, 
love, openness, surrender, devotion, peace and happiness. It imparts the 
grace of the Goddess, the Divine Mother. It makes us pliable, sensitive, 
and contemplative. It causes us to do good for the sake of others and to 
be obedient to higher principles. People with such a religious or spiritual 
Moon often have a strong connection with a traditional religion and may 
have had many monastic past lives. They have sweet, tolerant and humane 
dispositions, and can even become saintly. They are often the easiest 
people to be around and the least critical. They will tend to see the good 
in all. 

The main weakness of the lunar type religious or spiritual mind is that 
it may cause people to be too orthodox. They may rely unquestioningly 
on an authority that does not represent the truth. They like organization, 
ritual, and tradition and represent the best of it; but when that tradition has 
become negative, they are often unable to question it, much less break 
away from it. They may be more concerned about being good than about 
. finding the truth. 

As a very sensitive and mutable planet, the Moon can be easily 
influenced and overcome by other planetary energies. Saturn can darken 
it, depress it, or give it detachment. Rahu can cloud it or cause us to lose 
power over our minds, which the Moon rules. The Moon represents our 
impressionability, our capacity to become whatever influence we give 
ourselves over to. 

The Moon is not only responsiveness but also inertia. Through our 
lunar sensitivity we can become accustomed to a life of pain, sorrow, or 
ignorance as well as to one of joy and truth. The Moon is our capacity to 
endure in any environment, which can also become a negative factor 
whereby we accept subordination, subservience, or degradation. 

The mind is purely a dependent consciousness; it has no real nature 
of its own. As such, it can function in one of two ways: it can reflect the 
inner nature of things or their outer appearance. It can mold itself after the 


£ 7 j mxIxtIxfu-lcxlL ( Ufw.£hA. 



86 The Astrology of the Seers 

inner light of truth, the spiritual Sun, or after external influences and 
authorities, the outer or social lights (which the planets can project upon 

U) / 

< In its higher nature as pure, receptive awareness, the mind is one with 
the Self, the Moon and Sun are one in function, and the consciousness of 
the human being is integrated. Such a well-placed and spiritual Moon is 
found in the charts of yogis and other conscious individuals. In its lower 
nature as impressionability to mass influences and collective traumas, an 
ill-placed and malefic Moon is found in the charts of criminals, the insane, 
or those suffering from neurological disorders. 

As indicating (he feminine nature in general, the Moon can give 
beauty and attractiveness. It can make for a good wife or homemaker as 
well as mother. When more intellectually disposed, it can give a broad 
grasp of many fields of knowledge, and often, like Venus which resembles 
it, it can give artistic accomplishment or religious devotion. 

\f On the level of human relationships, the Moon represents the mother. 
Through it we can read her nature, her influence, and her longevity. It also 
shows our birth and through it we can read the difficulty or ease of our 
birth and the factors which brought it about. It indicates the home or where 
we feel at home. It shows happiness and the state of the emotions. It shows 
where we place our love, care, general affection and friendship in life. 

The Moon gives love and friendliness to all. Such a benefic Moon is 
often found in the charts of doctors, healers, or psychologists as well as 
good mothers and wives. It is the capacity to focus our attention the other 
and his or her needs. 

The Moon gives us sensitivity of human feeling, a strong social 
consciousness, and a need to exchange emotions. It makes us require that 
our feelings are recognized in life and shared by others. While the Sun 
stands alone, the Moon is the friend of all. Hence, the Moon measures our 
popularity, our social status, and our capacity to influence the masses. In 
this capacity it is, like the Sun, an important planet for political and social 
power and prestige. A strong Moon can give power or preeminence like 
the Sun. A strong Moon can outshine the other planets, sometimes even 
the Sun. Whereas the Sun creates the king or strong-willed leader, the 
Moon creates a good administrator or a leader open to the needs of his 
people. 

/ The Moon indicates relationship, interchange, and communication. It 
shows our general propensity for relationship and how we receive others 
and view society. It also gives creativity and expression to the mind, the 
capacity to influence others as well as to be influenced ourselves. It can 
be used as a general measure of our creativity or self-expression. 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. SJ^LiuLh-A. 



The Planets: The Great Cosmic Significators 87 

While the Sun projects the seed, it is the Moon which gives birth. 
While the Sun stands alone and overcomes any planet with which it is 
associated, the Moon brings together and accepts into herself whatever 
planetary energy she is conjoined with. While the Sun measures our 
independence, the Moon reflects our dependency. Lunar people are 
friendly, caring, and nurturing but not always honest, consistent or clear. 
Lunar people work through cooperation and mutual help, through family 
and friends; solar people rely upon the power of their own character, the 
strength of their own will. As solar types may become egoistic, lunar types 
may become circumscribed within a family, clan, group or belief system 
and be unable to work with anyone outside of it. 

The Moon is our social nature and points out our social concerns in 
life. It indicates our popularity as the Sun does our prestige. It shows the 
effect of our personality on others as the Sun shows how we uphold our 
individuality even against others. 

The Moon governs water — water as a psychological symbol, water 
in our own body, or water in the world. She sustains our fluidity of body 
and mind. She allows us to flow. As such, she is the creative flow of life, 
the stream of awareness, the waters of creation from whose well we must 
drink to find contentment in life. She is the water of delight which bestows 
happiness in life. In her influence is love and communion. 

The main name for the Moon in Sanskrit is “Soma.” This refers to 
our inner nectar of happiness which alone has the power to calm the mind 
and refresh the nerves. The Moon gives the inner contentment through 
which alone longevity and rejuvenation can proceed. She is the general 
beauty, bliss, communion and communication from which the more 
specific energies of Mercury and Venus arise. The Moon is also called 
Chandra, “the giver of delight and rhythm,” as the great cycles of nature, 
like the rhythm of the tides, reflect her. 

Mars 

Mars is cruel, has blood red eyes, is ill mannered, yet generous, 
is bilious (pitta) in constitution, is prone to anger and possesses 
a thin waist and body. — Parashari 3.25 

' Mars is the great planet of energy. As Venus governs our affections, 
our emotional and vital impressionability. Mars relates to our passions, 
our emotional and vital capacity for self-projection. We could say that 
Venus governs our incoming emotions, our capacity to receive emotion, 
whereas Mars rules our outgoing emotions, our capacity to project emo¬ 
tion. 


^M-cLctL(JTLL€Z-€lL WhalLIiA. 



88 


The Astrology of the Seers 

y^^iars is the male and Venus is the female. They are the positive and 
negative, the active and passive sides of our feeling. Venus is emotional 
sensitivity, which can become refinement; Mars is the planet of emotional 
excitability, which can become violence. Thus, generally, Venus is the 
benefic and Mars is the malefic side of the emotions. 

Whereas the Sun and Moon represent our masculine and feminine 
natures generally, Mars and Venus do so specifically. They are planets of 
sexuality, and the relationship between the sexes can be read through 
them, whereas the luminaries have a parental influence from a more' 
f general male and female nature. When the influence of Mars and Venus 
combines, particularly in fixed signs, the sexual drive can become very 
strong and may dominate the nature. 

j Mars is the planet of power, strength, courage, and aggression, and 
measures our ability to project force in life. On the positive side, a strong 
Mars is necessary to give us the energy, independence, will and self-con¬ 
fidence to carry out our endeavors — qualities it shares with the Sun. 
Without it we have no real interests, passions, and motivations, no 
determination, no real intensity or ability to carry out anything to the end 
and really accomplish it 

On the negative side, this same aggression brings about competition, 
argument, and conflict — and when unchecked by other factors, it causes 
domination, control, violence, and injury, a placing of our own personal 
wwill-to-power over the good of life. As such, Mars has always been well 
known as the great God of War. He can make a person militaristic or 
violent, turn him into a soldier or general, even a criminal if more 
malefically disposed. He can cause us to inflict death on others. He can 
also, if he afflicts the factors representing the self in the chart (like the 
Ascendant and its ruler), bring violence, injury and accident upon our¬ 
selves. He can cause our death. 

\J The malefic nature of Mars is well known in most instances of violent 
death, whether accidental or intentional. Mars also can indicate premature 
death in a chart, as with the loss of the partner (particularly the loss of the 
husband in the chart of the wife). He is the general significator for injury, 
accident, conflict and enmity. Mars creates misunderstandings, arguments 
and litigation. In this regard Mars is the selfish will that does not take into 
account the views and needs of others. 

In a more positive light, these difficulties come about because Mars 
insists upon greater independence, differentiation, and clarity of views. 
He makes us more certain of who we are and who our friends are. He 
causes discontent and seeking until we discover the real source of power 
within us. 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. ( EJU-il£IlA. 



The Planets: The Great Cosmic Significators 89 

\] Mars is the significator of brothers, friends and alliances. These 
include any association of common interest to achieve a common goal. In 
a lower sense, it is the alliance of soldiers (or lower yet, thieves). The Mars 
energy of working together in discipline to achieve a common aim is 
necessary for any common endeavor. Mars is the leader or the central 
energy of determination, upon which the right organization of forces 
depends. All energy requires a focus for its proper application. Mars gives 
us this direction. 

Mars indicates arms and muscles and gives physical prowess. A good 
i Mars is necessary for physical strength and athletic performance. He gives 
sexual vitality to the male. A weak Mars can cause impotence or lack of 
manly characteristics. 

Mars is a critical, perceptive and discriminating planet. His power of 
argument can, on the positive side, give good skills at speech, oratory and 
the good logical faculties. The lawyer, the politician and the scientist need 
J such a strong Mars. With logic and science. Mars gives mechanical skills. 
He is the machinist, the engineer, the miner, the chemist, the electrician. 
He invents things to help us get things done better. 

As giving insight, Mars indicates knowledge and, in the higher sense, 
can direct us towards a Yoga of knowledge, particularly one that employs 
much self-discipline or asceticism. A strong and spiritual Mars is good 
for the practice of rituals and Yogic techniques, methods of directing 
^occult and spiritual energies. We find such a Mars in the charts of those 
drawn to energetic Yogas or Tantric practices. Mars types like a more 
dramatic, challenging and daring path in all fields of life. 

J Mars rules tools, weapons, machines and their usage. He is the planet 
of work, effort, research and development. Modem culture based upon 
technology has had a strong Martian influence; hence, our tendency to 
war and monstrous weapons. Technology and war go together as aspects 
of Mars energy that we have not yet understood or controlled properly. 
Mars causes us to develop energy, but it does not necessarily give us the 
wisdom or love to use it properly. It tends to regard power as an end in 
itself when it is only a means. 

Mars is the son of the Earth in Hindu mythology. Hence, he is called 
Kuja or Bhumija, “the one bom from the Earth.” He is the flame hidden, 
in matter; his energy demands manifestation in material form. He can also 
bring out the negative or dark sides of the Earth energy, the titanic 
primordial powers, the Asuras or demons of the abyss who wish to destroy 
the creation and bring things back to the state of raw chaos. This inertia 
or tamasic quality behind Mars energy must not be forgotten. 

I Combined with Jupiter, the positive side of Mars comes out as the 
capacity to make great achievements in life, in harmony with law and 


^7#if/<rZtra.Zc.a/ ( EJU-il£IlA. 



90 


The Astrology of the Seers 


truth. It creates the proverbial good guy who works selflessly fpr what is 
right, but who consequently may suffer from self-righteousness. Com- 
,bined with Saturn, its negative side usually predominates, creating selfish, 
J perverted or criminal tendencies, particularly when there are no balancing 
factors. Where balancing factors do exist, this combination creates disci¬ 
pline and the capacity for great accomplishments. 

Mars is the planet of action. Yet it is not just action for action’s sake; 
it is the planet of goal-oriented action. As is one’s ultimate goal and 
highest value in life, so is one’s action. It is important, therefore, to 
subordinate our Martian energy, which is indispensable for a creative life, 
to spiritual principles and to the influence of more spiritual planets. In this 
way it can give the capacity for the practical application of energy on a 
spiritual level in Yoga and meditation. It can give capacity for insight and 
inquiry on an inner as well as outer level. 

J In short, most of the qualities of Mars relate to his nature as fire. He 
can bum us or provide us warmth, give us light or create smoke, illumine 
or disturb us; but unlike the Sun who is self-luminous, he requires some 
fuel to bum. We must make sure that his fuel is not the life or energy of 
another nor the more refined aspects of our own being. 

Mercury 

Mercury has the best appearance, is witty, fond of jokes and 
laughter, and is learned. He takes upon himself the nature and 
constitution of the planets with which he is associated. 

— Parashari 3.26. 

Mercury is the great messenger of the Gods. He is the planet which 
represents speech, communication and commerce on all levels. In his 
! lower function he organizes and articulates material resources. On a 
higher level he connects us with our inner capacities, the powers of the 
mind. 

j As Jupiter generally represents the higher or abstract mind, Mercury 
indicates the lower or concrete mind, the intellect or informational men¬ 
tality. However, Mercury is not limited to this. He also shows the higher 
mind in its discriminating ability and connects us with the Divine Word 
or word of truth. Mercury governs names. On a lower level these are the 
outer appearances of title and personality, which are illusory. On a higher 
level they are the names of God which connect us to the true reality of 
things. 

J Mercury governs writing, education, calculation and thought. Mer¬ 
cury is the fastest moving of the planets and so is indicative of quick 
comprehension, facility, ease and plasticity in expression. Mercury pro- 


£ 7 'MxlxrlxFTLLGjaJ. SJ^LUjLh-A. 



</„ 


V 


The Planets: The Great Cosmic Significators 97 

vides for the quick correlation of ideas, the fast interchange of information 
or of things of value. He is mental and nervous energy in its articulate 
activity. He shows our intellectual powers and the degree of mental 
development in life. 

Mercury is a child and indicates the state of childhood generally, 
particularly the period between infancy and adolescence. Afflictions to 
Mercury may mean health problems in childhood, troubles in the home 
life, or difficulty at school. The mind and nervous system as well as the 
lungs may suffer. 

As a planet of commerce, Mercury represents trade, or articles of 
trade, including money. Though not in himself a planet of wealth, he is 
helpful in both acquiring it and keeping it, as he helps us organize it. He 
is necessary whenever there is to be an exchange of ideas or commodities. 
He sees the value of open markets and free communication and is not 
restricted by boundaries of race, nation, caste or belief, but he can be 
attached to his own opinion, his calculations, and his own gains and losses. 

Mercury breaks down barriers between people and reveals a common 
humanity and common human needs. As such, he possesses a certain 
compassion and sense of equality based not so much upon sentiment as 
upon objectivity and practicality. Afflicted, he is similarly willing to 
exploit everyone, though he will often improve their outer condition to 
some degree in the process. 

Mercury is an important factor in determining our vocation, for that 
is what we do in life to communicate with others — our interchange with 
society. Mercury shows how we appear and how we function in the 
network of transactions that makes up the world of things and ideas. In 
this regard, his representation of our education or training in life comes 
into play. He is the child that is the father of the man. 

J Mercury is the most mutable of the planets. As such, he easily takes 
upon himself the nature of the other planets with which he is associated, 
for good or for ill. He may value communication and public opinion more 
than truth, and become dependent on and defensive of whatever is the 
strongest environmental influence. He is the mind which has no real nature 
of its own but reflects whatever it considers to be the reality, which may 
be no more than the impressions of the senses. 

\J ^ wea ^ Mercury makes us rationalize things to suit our purpose. It 
creates immaturity, naivete and folly. It can create dishonesty and a lack 
of properly defined boundaries. This may make a person a thief — not 
because he is cruel, but because he does not respect anything as belonging 
to another. Such people take what they need according to a childish view 
of life that the world should provide for them. They have no objective 


£ 7 1 MjcLo4xjtijjcjclL tf^iuLh.A. 



92 TKe Astrology of the Seers 

perception and are caught in childish fantasies and may even believe that 
what they have taken was really given to them or merited by them. 

In this regard, Mercury is like the Moon. He is the child of the Moon. 
He is the mind which does not perceive but can merely organize ideas. If 
the mind orients'itself towards the perception of truth, the vision of the 
eternal, then it will see the falseness of the external world and the reality 
of the inner consciousness. If it orients itself to the images of the senses 
as reality in itself, then it will see the outer world as real and create a 
scientific view of life. If, however, it orients itself to our selfish fears and 
desires as reality, it will create illusion, a neurotic or even schizophrenic 
view of life. Mercury is the rational conscious mind, which is still only 
the most articulate part of the subconscious mind (the Moon). TVue 
consciousness is not of the mind but transcends thought. 

•J In Sanskrit, Mercury is Budha, meaning “intelligence” or “cogni¬ 
tion,” and relates to the Buddhi, the faculty of determination whereby we 
discern the real from the unreal (fully awakening which one become 
enlightened, a Buddha). When this faculty judges reality not by appear¬ 
ances but by discerning the transient from the eternal, then it functions 
rightly and the higher power of Mercury is revealed. When it discriminates 
names and forms, we become caught in the apparent reality of the external 
world. 

In the higher sense. Mercury is this faculty of truth determination 
which discriminates the real from the unreal, the pure from the impure, 
truth from illusion. This is the most precise and perfect functioning of the 
mind. In this higher activity Mercury, the mind, is Vishnu, the pervasive 
consciousness Who is also the Divine son, the guiding cosmic intelligence 
and source of the great teachers and avatars. 

J A well-placed Mercury is of great importance in life. Our Mercury 
establishes our values in life. Material values, prices and standards of 
measurement, artistic values, as well as spiritual values (like seeing all 
life as sacred), are different aspects of the value sense of Mercury. 

A good Mercury also gives good humor and psychological balance. 
It imparts a mental adaptability that is also playful. He is the trickster but 
can become deceptive. When afflicted, Mercury becomes the fool, the 
idiot Sometimes, even when wise, he will play the fool to express his 
adaptability and wit and to learn what would otherwise be hidden from 
him. Under a strong negative Saturn influence, Mercury can lose its power 
and show lack of intelligence. 

Afflictions to Mercury do not always give lack of intelligence or 
j intellect, however. They may cause some other harm, like speech defects, 
nervous system disorders or neurosis. Intelligence can be given by other 
planets, like Jupiter; but withouta strong Mercury, there will be difficulty 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. SJ^LiuLh-A. 



93 


■ The Planets: The Great Cosmic Significators 

in expressing it, particularly through the written word. Mercury deter¬ 
mines our expression in life. Of what value is what we do or who we are 
if it cannot be in some way communicated or shared? 

Mercury is very important in modem culture and one of its most 
beneficial powers — the need to establish open communication that must 
lead to a world culture. Telephone, radio, television and computers are 
products of Mercurial needs aligned with the engineering capacity of 
Mars. Yet, so far we remain caught in the lower domain of Mercury and 
are only sharing superficial wealth and information, not communing with 
our deeper Self. We are swamped with massive and usually trivial data by 
the development of the lower Mercury principle manifesting through the 
mass media. , 

Astrology itself requires a strong Mercury for its needs of calculation 
and communication. As our principle of balance, Mercury is often the 
point at which we can change our lives for higher purposes. 

Jupiter 

Jupiter has large limbs, is heavy, has yellow hair and eyes; his 
constitution is .phlegmatic (kapha), he is intelligent and en¬ 
dowed with all the branches of learning. — Parashari 3.27. 

Jupiter is well known as the most helpful, generous and benefic of the 
planets. His grace has always been sought by the votaries of astrology. In 
Sanskrit, he is called Gum, “the spiritual teacher” or “guide.” He signifies 
dharma, the law of our inner nature, which is the law of creative evolution 
and self-realization. He shows our principles in life, our guiding light of 
truth. The extent to which one has this can be measured by the disposition 
of Jupiter in the chart. He is the planet that indicates such domains of 
principle as law, religion and philosophy. He is a spiritual and ethical 
(Sattvic) planet which insists upon the pursuit and support of the good. 
He establishes our good in life and through his influence that goodness 
comes to us. 

Jupiter is the planet of intelligence — not intellect, which depends 
upon information or refined discernment (indicated more by Mercury), 
but formless intelligence, which goes back to eternal laws and ultimately 
to the sense of the eternal itself. He represents our sense of the enduring 
and the extent to which we are aware of, live according tc, and manifest 
cosmic intelligence. He represents the immanent Divine spirit which 
establishes and upholds even the laws of nature. 

\J Jupiter is the planet of creativity, as intelligence is creative. He 
signifies outer creativity, as our children, our progeny. From Jupiter the 


£7 'MxjxrlxrnlcjtLL tf^iuLh.A. 



94 


The Astrology of the Seers 


state of our children is to be ascertained — their number, sex, health, 
happiness and our relationships with them. 

Jupiter is also creativity in the inner sense. He gives powers of 
expression through solid principles which can produce anything from 
^ philosophies to institutions (not so much art, however, which is under 
Venus). Creativity springs from our inner principles, which are deter¬ 
mined by Jupiter. He is expansive and loves to share; hence, his constant 
delight is in greater unfoldment. 

As Mercury tends to show our outer career in life and how we relate 
to society on a practical level, Jupiter indicates our inner career — where 
we really find our personal fulfillment and what we enjoy doing. He 
indicates our spiritual mission in life as Mercury represents our outer 
expression. With a good Jupiter, but without a good Mercury, one may be 
wise inside but will outwardly appear unwise. Jupiter does not give 
attention to detail like Mercury and so may not allow us to articulate 
ourselves with clarity. His concern is more with doing the work right than 
with explaining how it is rightly done. 

Jupiter represents joy in life, joy in living, and the positive spirit. He 
is the great optimist who always sees the good. In him, all sorrow, 
depression and melancholy is overcome or turned into a learning experi¬ 
ence. 

« Jupiter is the planet of luck, grace, favor and fortune. He gives wealth, 
abundance, prosperity and success. In the lower sense, he gives fortune 
on the material plane, for it is the daring optimist who succeeds in the end. 
He also is indicative of good karma and unexpected rewards. Those who 
win at races or lotteries or have great inheritances usually have a well 
placed Jupiter. 

In the higher sense, Jupiter is the Divine grace which can fulfill all of 
our needs without our seeking. He gives religious merit and spiritual 
beneficence. When Jupiter is with us, all life, all the universe is with us, 
for he is that cosmic and Divine beneficence. 

J On a physical level, he is the planet of health. He makes us active in 
a healthy way and attunes us with the joy of nature. He gives vigor, vitality 
and a strong immune system. 

On the negative side, however, when the expansive Jupiter nature is 
afflicted, we can become overly optimistic. We will imagine the best and 
not guard ourselves properly. We will be vulnerable to the deceptive 
schemes of others. We can over extend ourselves, go beyond our re¬ 
sources, be overly generous, or spend too much. Our speculations will 
prove faulty. We will try to do too much and succeed in nothing. We may 
suffer from unexpected bad luck, bad karma, trouble with authorities and 
institutions, or loss in litigation. 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. ( EJU-il£IlA. 



The Planets: The Great Cosmic Significators 


95 


Too much of Jupiter can make us too materialistic, too enamored of 
wealth, and caught in conventional values and beliefs. We may become 
self-satisfied, too content, and caught within the status quo. Jupiter is * 
fun-loving and joyous planet; but when wrongly placed he can get us 
caught in the pursuit of pleasure and luxury, much like Venus. Though 
the pleasure of Venus is largely sexual, Jupiter’s is of groups and crowds. 

Jupiter likes music and can indicate musical talent. He likes shows, 
ceremonies, parades and rituals. He can make us into a showman. On a 
lower level, he likes parties and can make us self-indulgent. His influence 
can make a good entertainer or even a rock musician, with his love of 
expansive energy and noise. His happiness is in sharing; even when 
unspiritually oriented, he will still cause us to drink with our friends and 
pay for the drinks. 

J On a higher level, he indicates the priest and is concerned with 
propriety, formality and hierarchy. He can make us enamored of cere¬ 
mony, ritual and display. Hence, in Sanskrit he is also called Brihaspati 
or Brahmanaspati, the original priest or Brahmin. Jupiter is the great planet 
of aspiration. He shows our faith in life and can indicate the religion we 
follow or the form of the Divine we are naturally inclined to worship. 

Jupiter shows our devotion and dedication in life. As such, for the 
woman, it signifies the husband. In her chart it will show his nature, health, 
and her relationship with him. However, this is more true of Hindu society 
where marriage has followed family and religious sanction. For West¬ 
erners, where marriage is more owing to choice or passion, Mars often is 
more indicative of the partner for the female. 

Jupiter reveals the expansiveness of our spirit, just as Saturn indicates 
our capacity to contract or concentrate. It is no wonder that people all over 
the world have always sought the energy of this planet for inner as well 
as outer prosperity and creativity. It is the energy of grace in our chart 
which we can use to further our aim in life, which should be the aim of 
life itself for the overflowing of beneficence and love. 

Jupiter’s influence functions on a higher level if tempered with that 
of the Sun or Saturn, which are more stem and realistic. All planets 
represent energies which are one-sided in themselves and require the right 
balancing for true harmony — even that of Jupiter. 

Venus 

Venus is joyful in spirit, possesses a beautiful body, is splendor- 
ous and has lovely eyes; she is the inspirer of poets, is watery 
and airy in constitution (kapha and vata), and has curly hair.- 

— Parashari 3.28. 


£7 1 HjdxrLtTaXcjqJ- 



96 


The Astrology of the Seers 

Venus manifests the feminine spirit; she is well known as the Goddess 
of love and beauty. Our Venus shows our affection and sense of harmony 
in life. In the chart of the male, she represents the wife or lover. She is our 
I appreciation of the beautiful and, as such, represents our aesthetic sense. 
Venus is the significator of art, poetry, painting, music and dance. She is 
our muse in life, our sense of the beloved that draws out our creative 
expression. She indicates our sensitivity, refinement and gentleness. 

On the lower or outward level, Venus shows our seeking for pleasure, 
comfort and luxury. She represents the pleasure of the senses and the 
comforts of the body. She is sexuality and sexual attraction and serves to 
make either the woman or the man more appealing to the opposite sex. 
She brings wealth as an adornment. She is beauty, style and elegance — 
the refinement of wealth and not just crude accumulation. Her concern is 
not just with quantity, but with quality and good taste. She likes gems, 
antiques, and things of special value. She wants, not just for the joy of 
possessing but to have the adulation of others. 

Thereby she is also inclined to be vain, superficial and affected — 
mere show. She likes not only to exhibit herself and her own beauty, but 
to display her adornments which serve to embellish her. She demands that 
we please her and that we be pleasing to her. She can become the pleasure 
that dissipates, exhausts and debilitates; the self-indulgence that can 
destroy us. 

In this regard, Venus is the seductress. She is attractive and fascinat¬ 
ing. The web of her power can catch our energy like a spider and drain 
away our fire — our positive will in life — pursuing her favor, which is 
often fickle or hard to get or impossible to attain. She is dreamy, wispy 
and hard to hold, and thereby controls us by our seeking of her. She may 
never let us attain her, for her joy is in being desired, not in being 
possessed. 

Inwardly, Venus is the morning star, the light of inspiration which is 
the first spark of the Sun of truth. Venus is our aspiration to the good, the 
beautiful and the pure — our devotion to truth. She is our love that in its 
true nature is the love of truth. She is our sensitivity that becomes 
sensuality through its impressionability; but her basic nature is good. Such 
a pure Venus comes out in association with Jupiter and Mercury. Her vain 
side manifests in alliance with Mars, which causes an excess of passion, 
emotion, sexuality and sensuality. 

Venus shows our natural tendency to beautify things, to make things 
reflect their pure or astral forms. Our Venus works on our world to help 
bring it into harmony with its inner meaning as a play of delight. For Venus 
all is play (which on a lower level means “all is show”) and it is the pathos, 
the drama of the play that matters to her, not any practical or objective 


^HjcLctIaJTLL.C-€lL SJ^LUjLh-A. 



97 


The Planets: The Great Cosmic Significators 

reality. Venus gives the sentiment that would sacrifice a kingdom for one’s 
true love. The the astral Gods or Devas, are Venusian creatures and 
through them is the play of beauty in the world. 

Venus represents the higher astral and is the star of our astral light. 
She opens us up to the kingdoms and realms of beauty of the Gods. These 
include not only the realms of art and myth but also many psychic abilities, 
powers of visualization, and creative direction of the mind force. On the 
highest levels, she opens us up to the heavens of devotion wherein we can 
commune with the Divine in the form that most appeals to us. 

In Indian mythology Venus is the teacher of the demons or titans, the 
Asuras, since to subdue and influence them cannot be done by force but 
only by charm and grace. Venus also gives power. It is not only the power 
i which fascinates but also the power to move and to motivate. A strong 
J Venus gives sexual power, which on inner levels can be transmuted into 
astral or spiritual power and strength of will. A strong Venus can give 
charisma or power of personality. This may be a capacity to inspire, or it 
may just be a giving of enthusiasm. However, it can also be the power to 
hypnotize and thereby deceive. Venus can be the sorceress and has many 
forms of subtle power and allure to entrap us. 

Venus was the main planetary deity of Egypt and of Mexico, where 
Atlantean influence persisted the longest on this planet. Their calendars 
were based upon the cycles of Venus. The positive and visionary side of 
Venus came out in these cultures with the use of gems, colors and music; 
but the negative side also came out when these cultures declined into black 
magic and idolatry. This resulted in a sumptuous occult kind of material¬ 
ism that aimed at both physical and astral pleasure. The majority of 
humanity was turned into slaves for the selfish pleasure of a few. Occult 
energies were turned towards this subtle astral indulgence. This caused a 
revolt of the earth energies and the higher Venusian forces which de¬ 
stroyed Atlantis in a flood — from the ocean itself that holds the power 
of Venus. 

Modem culture is bringing out aspects of a negative occult Venus in 
the mass media, with its massive sensuality and cult of sex and violence. 
However, we will probably avoid the destruction that Atlantis suffered, 
though we will experience some major difficulties from our ignorance. It 
is important that we use this glamour force in the right way. It can heal if 
used consciously or destroy if used selfishly. 

A strong Venus is very helpful in any chart, as it indicates capacity to 
love, sense of refinement, beauty and purity. Love is the strongest power, 
and in this regard Venus possesses the power to overcome even Mars. 
Venus gives vitality, the energy of delight. She is our portion of the 
Ananda, the Divine Bliss in creation. 


^M-cLctL(JTLL€Z-€lL ( EJU-il£IlA. 



The Astrology of the Seers 


98 

\j An afflicted Venus, on the other hand, is one of the most difficult 
things to overcome, as it allows us to be taken in by appearances. This 
lower side of Venus is much in evidence in our culture with its emphasis 
on the pleasures of the senses. Even the artistic side of Venus has largely 
been reduced to this today, with our emphasis on loud music, bright colors 
and showmanship. 

We must discover Venus as the love of truth to overcome Venus as 
the love of appearance. For that we must seek the deepest nature of our 
love and not accept the image of glamour for it 

Saturn 

Saturn has a tall and thin in build, has yellow eyes and is airy 
(vata) in constitution; he has large teeth, is lazy, lame and has 
coarse hair. — Parashari 3.29 

Saturn is traditionally the most difficult of the major planets, the 
legendary king of the malefics. He has been feared throughout the 
centuries as the great God of Death — the significator of death, disease, 
poverty, separation, ugliness and perversity. Though Saturn possesses a 
higher and more beneficent side, at least from thq standpoint of the 
spiritual life, even this is stem and exacting, hard to live up to and to endure 
— a power of discipline, asceticism and solitude. 

J Saturn brings limitation and obstruction, hindrance in self-expression 
and in self-manifestation, which may become oppression and adversity. 
As Jupiter indicates the process of creation and expansion, Saturn brings 
about contraction and destruction. As Jupiter is the great affirmer, Saturn 
is the great negator. As Jupiter is the God of joy, he is the God of sorrow. 
As Jupiter is the optimist, he is the pessimist. As Jupiter shows the joy 
inherent in all life, Saturn reveals all life as misery. Jupiter is the positive 
teacher of the soul; Saturn, the negative guide. As Jupiter tells us that “all 
is God,” Saturn drills into us that “nothing is Divine,” that there is nothing 
truly real in the outer world. The religions of world negation, like 
Hinduism and Buddhism, have the influence of a strong spiritual Saturn. 

Saturn is the significator of disease, old age and death — the great 
enemies of human life which overcome all life bound by time. As the most 
distanturt in orbit of the major planets, his is the major influence we all 
must face in the end. Hence, in the placement of Saturn in the chart is the 
ultimate issue of our life and destiny, the hard facts or stem reality we 
must face. 

. Though the power of Saturn to limit or destroy what it influences 
should not be underestimated, its positive value must be considered as 
well. Destruction is the necessary counterpart for creation, as decay and 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. ( UhjjjLI±A. 



The Planets: The Great Cosmic Significators 99 

death are required for new life and growth. The limitation on our material 
fate is necessary: all material things must come to an end; what is put 
together must come apart; and all things must return to their component 
elements. The Four Noble Thiths of the Buddha and his doctrines of 
impermanence and universal suffering reflect the wisdom of Saturn. 

Our great fear of Saturn has measured the degree of our attachment 
to the material world and our inability to face the ultimate issues of our 
existence. Saturn shows us the limitation of this realm, which is the 
necessary but painful lesson we must learn to find our way into the 
unlimited. Saturn is death that takes us beyond the limitations of mortal 
life, which is the gateway to the eternal, though straight and narrow as the 

T or’s edge. 

Saturn gives bad luck, misfortune, and oppression. It is the planet of 
bad karma or unfortunate destiny. Yet these may come upon a soul not 
because it was evil or slow to evolve in past lives. Some souls, particularly 
those who are more advanced, may seek such things as a means of quicker 
and deeper spiritual growth in life. Anyone can resort to the Divine in 
prosperity, but who can do so in great adversity? Such is the measure of 
a great soul. Saturn is also the suffering that makes us grow inwardly. 

The influence of Saturn is to delay, to withhold. As the slowest 
moving of the planets, he retards things, holds back their development. 
Those retarded in mind or speech are usually under a strong affliction of 
Saturn. He makes us deaf and blind, stunted or deformed. Saturn is the 
significator of old age, the God of time, who brings on all the degenerative 
processes of aging, the failure of our faculties and our powers. As such, 
a badly placed Saturn causes premature aging. Saturn takes away our 
vitality on a physical or on a mental level. He causes depression, melan¬ 
choly, and self-pity, and gives rise to worry, fear and anxiety. 

As a nervous planet, Saturn obstructs nerve functioning. He may 
cause numbness, paralysis or degenerative neurological disorders. His 
obstructing and repressing influence on the mind may promote neurosis 
or insanity. Saturn is behind most diseases, particularly chronic and 
degenerative diseases, and diseases of old age, including arthritis and 
cancer. As representing decay he can cause an accumulation of waste 
materials in the body and often is a point of devitalization in the chart. 

^ Saturn causes poverty, deprivation and want. He keeps us in bondage 
or servitude, under the domination of others, and under the rule of external 
forces. Yet Saturn also causes us to retain what we possess. Saturn 
indicates property, land and Fixed assets. Those who obtain wealth 
through a well-disposed Saturn may become misers and will carefully 
hold on to what has with such difficulty been acquired. 


£ 7 1 MjcLo4xjtijjcjclL tf^iuLh.A. 



100 The Astrology of the Seers 

In the lower sense, Saturn is a selfish planet; in fact, we could say that 
Saturn is the planet of selfishness. It indicates our most deep-seated and 
obstinate ego drives towards self-protection. Saturn is our survival in¬ 
stinct, which becomes our need to maintain our separate existence, and is 
more basic and stronger even than our sexual drive. Most of our materi¬ 
alistic values, like our need for wealth, are little more than glorified 
survival values and bear the limitation and poverty of vision of Saturn. 
They are caused by the influence of Saturn but, as circumscribed by it, 
are also destroyed by its disintegrating affect. 

Furthermore, as the planet of the ego, Saturn is also the planet of fear, 
upon which the ego is based. Saturn creates fear and darkness in the mind. 
He makes us feel that we cannot overcome things, that life is against us. 
He makes us doubt ourselves, doubt even the Divine, and makes us prey 
to dark fears, fantasies and phobias. 

Saturn represents the darker side of the mind and the baser elements 
of life: crime, perversity and paranoia. Saturn indicates the underworld, 
the lower astral realms. Its influence works through ugliness, terror and 
fright, abuse, degradation and self-debasement. Saturn can cause not only 
separation from loved ones and loss of love but also sexual perversions 
and unnatural sexual actions. Saturn can cause us to pursue gross pleasure 
without any grace, or find pleasure in acts of violence, harming others, or 
even harming oneself. 

Usually, a strongly malefic Saturn is prominent in the charts of 
criminals, perverts, or evil-minded people. Its negative side comes out 
particularly in association with Mars, another cruel planet. There is no 
limit to the destruction the evil forces that these planets can project when 
not under benefic influence. 

On a lower level, Saturn represents the gross body and the senses, the 
elemental forces which dominate us. It is the gravity that pulls us down 
and gets us attached to what is inferior. 

Saturn is the God who eats his own children, who devours his own 
progeny. He raises people up, but eventually casts them down in a very 
precipitous fall. Those who are under the spell of his base values will 
eventually be destroyed by them. He shows the falsehood for what it is, 
in which there is the revelation of the enduring value of truth. 

As the power of darkness and obstruction, Saturn is the enemy of the 
Sun and the Moon and has an eclipse-like effect upon them. Only Jupiter 
has the power to really subdue or to balance out his influence, though 
Venus and Mercury can refine it to a great degree. As Saturn is limiting, 
Jupiter is unlimiting. As Saturn is miserly, Jupiter is generous. Both 
together allow for an equalized movement of expansion and contraction, 
creation and destruction, in which there can be true growth. As Jupiter 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. ( EJU-il£IlA. 



The Planets: The Great Cosmic Significators 101 

elevates Saturn, Saturn gives Jupiter a greater detachment and more 
objective perception. 

Saturn is in many respects not only the lowest of the planets but also 
the highest. Its lesson is the most difficult but the most rewarding. Saturn 
is the grandfather spirit and law giver, our guiding ancestor. He represents 
not only the negative influence of the past which constricts us, he 
represents the positive spirit of the past that brings order and consistency 
to our lives. 

Saturn in Hindu mythology is the son of the Sun. The Sun moves in 
a chariot directed by Saturn. Saturn is the darkness, death and sorrow we 
must overcome for the revelation of the true light. He is the guardian of 
the mysteries of true awareness — which can only be attained through a 
very precise and exacting cultivation of attention. 

Saturn is the yogi in meditation. He can give complete detachment 
and independence. He is the one who stands alone and goes beyond the 
limitations of the masses. He shows the way of transcendence, though 
necessarily difficult, whereby all limitations can be overcome by resorting 
to our true and unlimited Self. In this respect the power of Shiva, who the 
lord of the yogis and the God of death and transcendence, may work 
through Saturn. 

A well-placed and strong Saturn is thus necessary for the spiritual life. 
In fact, it is necessary for creating anything of enduring value in any 
domain of life. Saturn gives the concentration, the sense of detail, the 
discipline and seriousness necessary to deal with the great challenges of 
life. 

Saturn is the significator of life itself. It indicates fate, term of life, 
and longevity. A strong Saturn protects the life. Saturn is the planet to be 
propitiated in old age. He indicates the regime necessary for full life and 
longevity, violating which, we suffer from premature decay and death. 

THE LUNAR NODES 

Rahu creates smoke, has a dark body, resides in forests and 

engenders fear; he is airy (vata) in constitution Ketu is similar 

to Rahu. — Parashari, 3.30. 

Apart from the seven planets, Vedic astrology regards certain signif¬ 
icant points of planetary relationship as minor or secondary planets. The 
two most important of these are the nodes of the Moon. The north node, 
or Dragon’s Head, is called Rahu in Sanskrit; the south node, or Dragon’s 
Tail, is called Ketu. We will refer to the nodes throughout the book as 
Rahu and Ketu, as it is a simpler nomenclature. 


£7 'MxjxrlxrnlcjtLL tf^iuLh.A. 



102 The Astrology of the Seers 

The lunar nodes are considered to be shadowy planets. Astronomi¬ 
cally, they represent the points at which the Moon’s orbit crosses the 
ecliptic, the celestial equator. These are the places at which the Moon 
crosses the point of the Sun’s orbit, at which eclipses can occur. The lunar 
nodes show the times when the solar and lunar forces obstruct each other 
or cancel each other out. They show the potential for short-circuiting, as 
it were, oiir solar or lunar energies. They are thus very sensitive points 
that can cause repercussions in the total field of planetary forces. 

Rahu, the north or ascending node, is the point at which the Moon 
crosses the ecliptic to the north; Ketu, the south or descending node, is 
where it crosses it to the south. The influence of the north node is thus 
ascending, expanding and externalizing, but of what is largely a negative 
force. The south node is descending, contracting and internalizing. Hence, 
in the Vedic system the south node is less negative than the north. 

Eclipses of the Sun and Moon can occur in proximity to either of the 
nodes. The nodes were regarded mythologically as the demon which 
swallows the luminary and causes the eclipse. As such, they have the 
power to overcome the Sun and the Moon, and in this sense they can be 
stronger than any of the planets. 

In Vedic astrology, therefore, the conjunction of any planet with either 
of the lunar nodes is regarded as a kind of eclipse of that planet wherein 
its energy is in some way obstructed, negated or liberated. 

While it is the practice of many modem astrologers today to overlook 
or consider lightly the lunar nodes, Vedic astrology regards them as among 
the most important factors in chart interpretation. They possess the power 
not only to negate planetary influences, but because eclipses are points of 
energy transformation, they have additional special properties to transfer 
or to augment planetary influences for good or ill. 

The Lunar Nodes in Western Astrology 

Western astrologers correlate the north node (Rahu) with Jupiter and 
the south node (Ketu) with Saturn. They see the north node as generally 
benefic and the south node as malefic. They interpret the north node as a 
point of easy expansion of energy, leadership potential and good luck. 
The south node appears to them as a point of obstruction, limitation, 
thwarting of self-expression, loss of power, and misfortune. 

They relate the nodes karmically. The north node is viewed as a point 
of good karma from an unselfish past life in which the individual used his 
energies (usually represented by the planet aspected by the node) for the 
general good. The south node is regarded as a point of difficult karma 
from a past life in which the individual furthered his own selfish interest 
at the expense of others. 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. ( EJU-il£IlA. 



103 


The Planets: The Great Cosmic Significators 

However, they also regard that the influence of the north node in 
excess can result in a dissipation of energies. It may cause us to become 
carried away by mass trends and collective influences (something like a 
badly placed Jupiter). The south node, on the positive side, they consider 
can develop strong concentration and mastery of abstruse or arcane 
subjects (something like a well placed Saturn). 

The north node is regarded as showing the opening up of a new and 
positive karmic sphere; the south node shows completion of or limitation 
to an old karmic pattern. 

The Lunar Nodes in Vedic Astrology 

The lunar nodes in Vedic astrology are a much more complex and 
studied phenomenon than in Western astrology. Their meaning is usually 
quite different though, under certain conditions, it can be simil&To that 
in the Western system. 

The lunar nodes, by themselves, are regarded as generally the most 
malefic forces in the chart. The north node, Rahu, is said to be like Saturn, 
the greater malefic; the south node, Ketu, like Mars, the lesser malefic. 
Yet, the nodes have a subtler, more psychic, and more difficult to neutral¬ 
ize malefic force than these two main malefics. Of the two, the north node, 
Rahu, is regarded as more malefic — as usually the most malefic force in 
the chart. 

That the two nodes are malefic is quite logical, for they indicate the 
factors which cause eclipses that block out the light of the great luminaries, 
the Sun and the Moon. For this reason they are more indicators of bad 
karma than good. They may show when collective karma shadows the 
individual life, and in this regard they can represent collective catastro¬ 
phes. Moreover, the south node, as completing the karmic cycle, is more 
generally fortunate than the north node that begins it because its energy 
is being internalized and withdrawn. 

•J Rahu, the north node, which Western astrologers equate with Jupiter, 
Vedic astrology perceives quite oppositely as a more malefic form of 
Saturn. However, Vedic astrology does recognize that the lunar nodes 
(either of them, but more commonly the north node) can function in a 
positive, Jupiterian manner when associated with a strong planet or when 
in a strong position. As shadowy planets, the nodes take on and magnify 
the power of the planets with which they are combined. The north node 
in the Tenth house, for example, can boost up our career, but it may 
threaten our integrity in the process. 

nJ Rahu is regarded as the main planetary factor behind insanity, neuro¬ 
sis, neurological disorders, possession by negative entities, and other such 
abnormal sensitivities of the mind and nervous system. This is particularly 


£7 'MxjxrlxrnlcjtLL tf^iuLh.A. 



104 The Astrology of the Seers 

true when it influences the Moon (especially by conjunction) and other 
factors representing the mind (like Mercury and the Fourth house). It can 
heighten our astral sensitivity, which can be to weaken our soul’s grip on 
the physical body. 

Personally, I have studied the influence of Rahu on many charts and 
have seen a high instance of Moon-Rahu combinations in insanity, 
nervous disorders, or criminal action. Note Moon-Rahu conjunctions in 
charts of such mentally disturbed and power-seeking types as Jim Jones 
and Charles Manson. 

Rahu’s manifestation is not always as severe and may be counteracted 
by other forces, as anything in astrology can be. Yet, its basic effect is 
usually as predicted in traditional Vedic astrology and seldom really 
Jupiterian. • 

J The key to most nervous, psychological and emotional disturbances; 
susceptibility to drugs and psychic influences; mysterious diseases like 
cancer or neuro-muscular disorders; as well as most inexplicable general 
mental unhappiness, malaise and unrest in life, can usually be traced to 
the influence of these nodes, especially Rahu. This is particularly true 
when they combine with and augment the negative force of other malefics 
like Saturn. 

J Ketu, the south node, which Western astrologers treat like Saturn, is 
treated in the Vedic system like Mars. Though malefic, it is not regarded 
quite as malefic as it is in the Western system. Ketu creates doubt, 
disturbance, anger, ambition, willfulness, and a critical and often narrow 
vision in life which may lead to conflict and argument. While Rahu shows 
an individual carried away by mass trends, collective, unconscious, or 
astral influences, Ketu shows the individual caught in his own contracted 
energies, negative, critical, doubting, isolated, alienated, and obstinately 
separate. 

* > 

The Negative Sun and Negative Moon 

J As the factors which determine eclipses, the nodes are the shadows 
of the Sun and Moon (speaking here symbolically, not astronomically). 
The north node, Rahu, is the shadow of the Moon, or the negative Moon. 
It has the power to obstruct, negate, cover or darken the Moon (the mind). 
The south node, Ketu, is the shadow of the Sun, or the negative Sun. It 
has the power to obstruct, negate, cover or darken the Sun (the self). 

As the negative Moon, or the negative side of the Moon (the mind), 

I Rahu represents illusion, hallucination, trance, psychosis, paranoia, and 
other such negative mental states. As the negative Sun, or the negative 
side of the Sun (the self), Ketu represents self-doubt, lack of self-confi- 


£ 7 ^MxlxrlxralcjqJ. SJ^LiuLh-A. 



The Planets: The Great Cosmic Significators 


105 


xi 


J 


dence, and lack of self-worth, which can lead sometimes to self-aggran¬ 
dizement or, ultimately, megalomania. 

J Rahu has the power to overcome the Moon, and Ketu has the power 
to overcome the Sun. They can limit other planets as well, though not to 
such a degree. Similarly, Ketu can obstruct the Moon; it may create violent 
fantasies, an attraction to the lower or macabre side of life, drug addiction 
or alcoholism, or dark emotional states. Rahu can obstruct the Sun; it may 
create confused imagination, indecision, illusions about oneself and the 
capacity to lose oneself to collective or psychic influences. Yet Rahu is 
more dangerous to the Moon; and Ketu, to the Sun. As having the power 
to overcome the Sun, Ketu is the most powerful planet in the chart besides 
the Sun. 

However, please do not overreact to these two shadowy planets. Their 
influence is only a portion of the chart. It seldom manifests the extreme 
negative side; but for unaccountable, generally psychological or neuro¬ 
logical difficulties, please examine these two nodes. They explain much 
that is hidden or occult in life. 

Positive Sides of Rahu and Ketu 

On the positive side,'the influence of Rahu can put us in harmony 
with collective trends and give popularity, prestige, fame and power. It 
imparts an a I nips t psychic sensitivity to mass trends and a capacity to use 
them. Ketu, in the positive sense, can create great powers of concentration, 
powerful perception, independence, the capacity to transcend external 
influences, and psychic and spiritual insight. In terms of Yoga and the 
spiritual life, it ultimately becomes the significator of liberation itself 
(Moksha karaka). Aligned with Mercury, it gives good insight and is 
helpful in the pursuit of such subtle subjects as astrology. 

The positive influence of the nodes, however, is less common than 
the negative, and both tend to have a debasing effect upon us. Both nodes 
represent very difficult forces to handle, and their positive side may only 
come out through overcoming great obstacles in life and may have 
side-effects. 

Rahu usually functions best when placed in a strong house, like the 
Ninth or the Tenth, with the ruler of that house powerfully placed else¬ 
where. There it can give fame, status and prestige. It may give this when 
strongly located in the First house also. 

Ketu means a flag. It has the power to boost up the effects of strong 
planets with which it is conjoined. A planet in its own sign or exalted, 
conjoined with Ketu gains considerable power. Venus in the Second house 
in Libra, conjoined with Ketu, for example, will give wealth. With Mars 


£7 'MxjxrlxrnlcjtLL tf^iuLh.A. 



106 The Astrology of the Seers 

in Scorpio in the Third house, Ketu can give great military prowess. Rahu 
can also function in this way, but to a lesser degree. 

A strong Rahu gives worldly powers and success — the fulfillment 
of worldly desires, — but usually not inner fulfillment. It can give rise to 
worldly desires that can never be fulfilled, however successful the indi¬ 
vidual may be, resulting in outer success combined with inner turmoil. 

Ketu gives sudden and unexpected results for good or ill, depending 
upon its placement. Well-placed, it makes the individual strong but not 
necessarily sensitive to others. The lunar nodes, like Saturn, can increase 
base values in life, producing more selfishness, even though providing 
outer success. Hence, they can get us trapped in the realm of the senses 
and in the abnonnal or unnatural use of the body. 

In the spiritual realm, Rahu can give psychic powers and mediumship 
capacity, but also danger from drugs, danger of possession, and danger 
from black magic. Ketu gives perception, liberation, wisdom, and psychic 
sensitivity in a more genuine way, but can give a too limiting, critical view 
of things that gets us stuck in some comer of our minds. Yet, as the two 
nodes are always opposite each other, usually when one is strong or weak, 
so is the other. 

URANUS, NEPTUNE AND PLUTO 

The more recently discovered distant planets — Uranus, Neptune and 
Pluto — are not usually used in Vedic astrology, and quite effective 
readings can be done without them. Most of the influences they represent 
are determined in Vedic astrology according to the lunar nodes. 

Pluto appears much like Ketu. It represents the negative side of Mars 
and is a psychic, willful planet. Its influence is similarly mysterious, 
destructive, negative, and manipulative. It can lead us into danger or 
suffering, even death. 

Uranus, like Rahu, is related to Saturn in sign rulership but does not 
so easily correspond to it as does Pluto to Ketu. Rahu is something like 
Neptune and Uranus combined. Rahu has the imaginative, hallucinogenic 
side of Neptune along with the energizing, shocking power of Uranus. 
The influence of Uranus is eccentric, erratic, disturbing, and a strongly 
individualizing force. It can force us into spiritual changes but may just 
derange us if we are not conscious of its power. 

Neptune relates to the negative or secretive side of Jupiter and is a 
strongly sensitizing and often psychic influence. It has a subtle Venus-like 
effect. It is the planet of imagination, illusion, fantasy and charm. 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. ( EJU-il£IlA. 



THE SIGNS: HOW THE PLANETS TRANSMIT 
THE INFLUENCES OF THE STARS 


Vedic astrology employs the same twelve signs of the zodiac as in 
Western astrology. The meanings are similar, but their locations are 
determined sidereally, as we have mentioned. 


THE TWELVE SIGNS 


ENGLISH 

Aries 

Taurus 

Gemini 

Cancer 

Leo 

\ Virgo 
Libra 
Scorpio 
Sagittarius 
Capricorn 
Aquarius 
Pisces 


SYMBOL 

SANSKRIT 

T 

Mesha 

y 

Vrishabha 

n 

Mithuna 

25 

Kataka 

SI 

Simha 

W 

Kanya 

-A- 

TUla 

"l 

Vrishchika 

t 

Dhanus 

V3 

Makara 

mt 

Kumbha 

X 

Mina 


ANIMAL 

RULER 

Ram 

Mars 

Bull 

Venus 

TWins 

Mercury 

Crab 

Moon 

Lion 

Sun 

Virgin 

Mercury 

Balance 

Venus 

Scorpion 

Mars 

Centaur 

Jupiter 

Crocodile 

Saturn 

Waterbearer 

Saturn 

Fishes 

Jupiter 


SIGN RULERSHIP 

The signs reflect the meaning of the planet which rules them. The key 
to understanding sign rulership is that it reflects the orbits of the planets 
around the Sun. 


Saturn 

Aquarius 

Jupiter 

Pisces 

Mars 

Aries 

Venus 

Taurus 

Mercury 

Gemini 

The Moon 

Cancer 

The Sun 

Leo 

Mercury 

Virgo 

Venus 

Libra 

Mars 

Scorpio 

Jupiter 

Sagittarius 

Saturn 

Capricorn 


^hjcLctIajtll.c-€lL ( EJU-il£IlA. 



108 The Astrology of the Seers 

Cancer and Leo represent the orbit of the Sun. Around these two signs 
are Gemini and Virgo, which represent the two halves of the orbit of 
Mercury, the first planet in distance from the Sun. The next to follow are 
Taurus and Libra, the two halves of the orbit of Venus, the next planet out 
from the Sun; Aries and Scorpio, the two halves of the orbit of Mars; and 
Pisces and Sagittarius, the two halves of the orbit of Jupiter. Finally we 
find Aquarius and Capricorn, the two halves of the orbit of Saturn, the 
most distant planet from the Sun. 

Each planet has two signs. The odd-numbered sign represents the 
positive half of its orbit around the Sun, wherein it is increasing and 
expressing its energy ; the even-numbered sign represents the negative half 
of its orbit, wherein it is decreasing and withdrawing (interiorizing) its 
energy. Cancer and Leo represent the positive and negative halves of the 
Sun’s rotation on its own axis. 

The Moon as the Feminine Side of the Sun 

Vedic astrology sees the Sun and the Moon as in essence one planet. 
The Moon is the feminine side of the Sun that has been emanated to the 
proximity of the Earth to nourish and promote life on Earth. The Moon is 
the incarnation of the Divine Mother who dwells in the Sun. It is no mere 
astronomical coincidence that the Moon and Sun have the same relative 
size from the Earth; it is part of the working of cosmic law. Eclipses of 
the Sun and the Moon can only occur because of this. They are not 
accidental but are points of energy transformation necessary for the 
development of life on Earth. 

The interrelationship of the Sun and the Moon is necessary to main¬ 
tain the balance of positive and negative, masculine and feminine, yin and 
yang energies on Earth. Without the Moon being the same apparent size 
and balancing the influence of the Sun, life on Earth would not be possible. 
The homeostasis necessary for life could not be maintained. The Moon 
allows the Earth to hold water and is responsible for the maintenance of 
the oceans. Through the oceans it allows for life, for the rains that nourish 
plants, and for maintaining fertility in creatures. Its energy allows for the 
building up of our bodies and minds. 

ODD AND EVEN NUMBERED SIGNS 

The odd-numbered of the constellations are the positive, masculine, 
or active signs; the even-numbered are negative, feminine, and passive. 
For example, Aries, sign 1, is the positive or masculine sign of Mars, 
wherein its energy is outgoing, expressive, manifest. Scorpio, sign 8, is 
' the negative or feminine sign, wherein its energy is internalized, hidden, 
acting behind the scenes. Generally planets are stronger in positive signs; 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. ( EJU-il£IlA. 



The Signs: How Planets Transmit Influences of the Stars 109 

that is, they can accomplish more. Odd signs have a more yang or solar 
nature, and even signs have a more yin or lunar nature. Odd signs are more 
energetic orRajasic; even signs are more resistant or Tamasic. 

Both positive and negative signs are necessary; no distinction of high 
or low, good or bad is implied. The negative side of a planet is that portion 
of its orbit when it is gathering in cosmic energy; the positive side, when 
it is releasing it. 

The planets exist to bring into the solar system their respective portion 
of the sevenfold cosmic energy from the stars. The planets are the dynamic 
principles, whereas the signs are the fields or tissues maintained by their 
movement. The solar system is an organism. The zodiac reflects the 
organic relationship of the solar system with the galaxy. The planets are 
transmission stations that bring in the seven rays from the galactic center 
and- digest them, to allow for the evolution of the solar system and the 
development of intelligent life on Earth. 

By this system, Vcdic astrology cannot accept Uranus, Neptune or 
Pluto as ruling signs, as they are ascribed today in Western astrology to 
rule Aquarius, Pisces and Scorpio. This would destroy the sequence of 
orbits and the logic of sign rulership. However, these planets may be 
related to the signs in a less direct way. Pluto does appear related to the 1 
negative side of Mars, Neptune to the negative side of Jupiter, and Uranus 
to the positive side of Satum. They can be considered co-rulers of these 
signs, just as K etu and Rahu are o ften considere d to be co-rulers of Sc orpio 
an d Aquarius, as their similarity to Pluto andUranus would a ffirm 
"We see, therefore, that the signs do not exist apart from the planets. 
Gemini, for example, is nothing but the energy channeled by Mercury in 
the positive side of its orbit, while Virgo is its energy channeled in the 
negative half. The energy sustained by the orbit of each planet is projected 
through two signs of the zodiac, or two thirty degree sections of the sky 
relative to the Earth. 

SIGNS BY QUALITY 

Each sign relates to one of the three major qualities, called in Western 
astrology “Cardinal,” “Fixed,” and “Mutable." In Sanskrit they are called 
Chara, active, Sthira, firm or “immovable” and Dwiswabhava, dual or 
“both natured”. 

These qualities relate to the manner whereby the individual directs 
his or her energy in life and is often reflected in the nature of the character. 
These qualities arc much like positive (Cardinal), neutral (Fixed), and 
negative (Mutable) electrical charges. No quality is necessarily better or 
worse than the others. However, each has its energetic pattern and its 
characteristic imbalances that an individual dominated by it must master. 


^7#it/<rZcra.Zc.a/ t F^.iuth.A. 



110 


The Astrology of the Seers 


Cardinal Types 

Cardinal signs show the positive, active, dynamic, initial, or guiding 
phase of their respective element. Cardinal quality corresponds generally 
to the quality of Rajas: It is the principle of movement, gives impulse, 
direction, and expression; but may cause disturbance, agitation, and too 
forceful or too frequent action. 

Cardinal types (those individuals who have planets predominately in 
Cardinal signs) are people of action. They are positive, expressive, 
outgoing, and have a high sense of achievement and accomplishment. 
They are willful, aggressive, impulsive, dynamic, and often become 
successful as leaders. Most high achievers or executive types are of this 
quality. While they can accomplish a great deal and often get what they 
want, they may be lacking in sensitivity or unable to reflect upon them¬ 
selves or their goals properly. They may impose themselves on others or 
harm others along the way, or at least may not be sensitive to the feelings 
of others. They can overextend themselves or bum themselves out through 
excess activity, movement and stimulation. As souls they may be begin¬ 
ning a new phase of manifestation. Modem culture likes this type. They 
have self-confidence, seek advancement, and direct their energy towards 
their goals in a powerful way. Many of our leaders, bosses and entertainers 
are of this type. 

Cardinal types need to cultivate more sensitivity, flexibility, patience, 
and introversion and develop more consistency and stability. They need 
to make sure that what they are directing their energy towards reflects 
their deepest will and aspiration so as not to get caught in action for its 
own sake. If they can do this, their capacity for inner development in life 
can also be very high. 

Fixed Types 

Fixed signs show static, stable, neutral, formal, or enduring phase of 
their respective element. Fixed quality corresponds generally to Tamas: It 
is the condition of form or substance; gives continuity and consistency; 
but may cause inertia, resistance and stagnation. 

Fixed types are firm, stable, and determined in who they are and what 
they do. They like to continue, preserve, and uphold things. They are quite 
settled in themselves and often unwilling to modify their opinions or to 
question themselves. Their characters are firm, hard, and unyielding. They 
are consistent, have strong faith, and do not waver in their beliefs. They 
can be like a rock, which is not moved by things. They can be obstinate, 
fixated, and incapable of accepting or even acknowledging any other point 
of view than their own. They may be conservative or traditional or at least 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. ( EJU-il£IlA. 



The Signs: How Planets Transmit Influences of the Stars 


111 


may not see the possibility of another way of doing things. They are often 
possessive and may accumulate much in life, finding it difficult to let go. 
When highly evolved, they are souls who hold to the truth and have great 
faith. When less evolved, they may be insensitive, attached, or- resistant. 
They change slowly, but what they alter will endure. They can be 
emotional, sentimental or have a strong feeling nature. Sometimes they 
are thoughtful, but they go more deeply into the ideas they already have 
rather than develop new ones. As souls, they are usually maintaining a 
phase of manifestation. 

Fixed types need to develop more initiative and attempt more new 
things, particularly new ways of looking at things. At the same time, they 
need to be more sensitive, adaptable, and open. They must make certain 
that what they are holding on to is the truth and not just some pattern of 
negativity, emotionality, or selfishness. 

Mutable Types 

Mutable signs show the negative, transitional, unstable, undirected, 
or malleable phase of their respective element. Mutable quality corre¬ 
sponds generally to Sattva: It is the subtle, transformative, or refined state 
of the element which may, however, cause instability, hypersensitivity 
and disintegration. (It should be noted that some Vedic astrologers asso¬ 
ciate fixed quality with Sattva, as it is stable, and mutable quality with 
Tamas as it is disintegrating; but mutable signs are the best for developing 
the mind, which is of the quality of Sattva). 

Mutable types are flexible, adaptable, and capable of many things. 
They often have many talents, interests, curiosities, and skills. They are 
prone to be indecisive and may find it difficult to act. In addition, they 
may be inconsistent and unable to stick to things. They are often mental 
types who like to think, calculate, worry, or reflect, and they can become 
too introverted or overly preoccupied with themselves. They more com¬ 
monly suffer from mental or nervous disorders, immune system derange¬ 
ments, and allergic.-.. They are often agile on a physical level, particularly 
when young, but have poor endurance. They can be very talkative or 
communicative, though they may not have anything specific to say. By 
their ability to exchange things, they can become good businessmen, yet 
they may also get caught in their ideas and calculations about things. They 
may be successful as performers, as they can modify the character that 
they appear to be, but are apt to be unstable. When highly evolved, they 
are capable of great sensitivity and broad comprehension. When less 
evolved, they can bo erratic, unreliable, and neurotic. As souls, they are 
usually completing a phase of manifestation. 


£7 'MxjxrlxrnlcjtLL tf^iuLh.A. 



112 The Astrology of the Seers 

Mutable types need to have more initiative, daring, and willingness 
to act. They need to set aside their thoughts and work through their actions. 
They also need independence, firmness, consistency, and peace. Above 
all, they need to direct their sensitivity in a more conscious direction so 
that they are not so easily disturbed by things, so that they use their 
sensitivity consciously as a tool rather than have it react against them 
unconsciously. 

QUALITIES OF THE PLANETS 

In judging the qualities of the individual in the chart, we must note 
the qualities of the planets themselves. Even if most of our planets are in 
Fixed signs, a strongly malefic Saturn may give much mutability to the 
nature or cause our patterns to be broken, no matter how strongly we try 
to make them endure. 

In terms of the three qualities, the Sun and Mars are more Cardinal 
or active, liking to lead and to dominate. The Moon and Venus are usually 
more Fixed or passive, preferring to yield or to endure, but an afflicted 
Moon becomes very Mutable. Mercury and Jupiter are more Mutable or 
adaptable, liking change and development. Saturn in itself tends to be 
Fixed, tied to inertia; but its effect on other planets is to weaken them or 
render them Mutable. The lunar nodes, Rahu and Ketu, also function as 
disruptive or Mutable forces, unless well-placed, in which case they 
strengthen the qualities of the planets they are associated with and can 
give Cardinal strength. We should also note the qualities of the houses in 
which the planets are located. 

In addition, it is important to note the particular planets in the signs 
of each quality. A Mutable Sun, say in Gemini, will give mutability to the 
will and character, even if the majority of planets are not in Mutable signs. 
A Fixed Mars will give a fixed energy and purpose, even if there are no 
other planets in Fixed signs. Hence, even if there is a relative balance of 
the qualities, the qualities will still have their affect according to the 
planets which they rule. 

SIGNS AND THE ELEMENTS 

Each sign relates to one of the four elements of earth, water, fire or 
air, in one of the three modes of these major qualities. 

As the signs show the field in which the planets operate, their elements 
show their different levels — the layers or densities of our being in which 
we function in life. 


^HjcLctIaJTLL.C-€lL SJ^LUjLh-A. 



The Signs: How Planets Transmit Influences of the Stars H3 

Earth Signs 

Strong planets in Earth signs show a strong sense of form, order, 
utility, and practicality, and they seek material manifestation or expres¬ 
sion. They usually show a strong connection to or much work to do with 
the Earth, the body, or physical matter. For example, we can find them in 
such diverse professions as gardeners, doctors, bankers or farmers, all of 
whom deal with something tangible in the material world. They may show 
work with the hands, a strong sense of form, or work with the practical, 
informational, or earthly side of the mind. They keep us in the realm of 
the senses and require that we use our senses in a clear manner. They 
demand that we develop mastery of the body. They can have a certain 
gravity to them or weigh us down. 

On the higher level, they can give us the capacity to realize our inner 
potentials in the material world, to see things as they are. Here we find 
them in the charts of old souls — those who have much connection with 
traditional cultures (like India or Mexico) and who may be completing 
their cycle of evolution. Those who follow Earth or nature religions, like 
Taoism or the American Indian path, may be of this type. On a lower level, 
they may tie us to the world or the body and place a shadow over us, even 
draw us into the underworld. Many souls just coming into this world, or 
up from the animal kingdom, can be dominated by such coarser earth 
influences. 

Well-placed planets in Earth signs give practical efficiency, physical 
purity, and the capacity for work. Poorly placed planets in Earth signs 
constrict and block us and keep us tied to the harsher side of life. 

Water Signs 

Water signs bring our planetary energies into the realm of feelings 
and emotions and often give love, affection, and attachment. They can be 
instinctual or intuitive, depending on how we use them, and usually cause 
us to seek emotional regard and recognition. They can show much work 
to do on the level of feeling, with our psychology and with human 
relationship. They can give strong vital natures and promote the inter¬ 
change of emotional energy between people. They indicate that our main 
fulfillment will come in relationship, which may be family, friends, social 
recognition, or even spiritual relationships. Those who have many planets 
in Water signs usually have many people around them, and they often 
provide a place in their house for people to come together. They may find 
it hard to create boundaries between themselves and others and thus may 
lack clarity. Their lives may be in the sea, as it were. 


£7 'MxjxrlxrnlcjtLL tf^iuLh.A. 



114 The Astrology of the Seers 

On a higher level, Water signs give wisdom, faith, devotion and 
compassion. They may be connected with astral worlds of art or devotion. 
On a lower level, they give sentimentality, greed and attachment. We may 
get drowned in the emotional issues we are not able to work out or do not 
want to let go of. We should note that while water is creative, it can also 
cause decay. 

Well-placed planets in Water signs give positive feelings, love and 
creativity. Negatively placed planets breed deep-seated emotional turmoil 
or stagnation. 

Fire Signs 

Fire signs show strong will, ambition, determination, discrimination, 
perception, and a critical mind. People with fiery planets often seek power 
and a display of force and drama. Their focus is more on the self and 
character than upon the interchange with others. They like to be popular 
but usually to dominate, not to be on the same level with others, as is the 
case with Water signs. They show that our main field of activity in life is 
in the realm of the will. We need to be certain of our motivation and the 
nature of the self we are projecting. Fire signs give us the need to develop 
real independence, clarity, and understanding, and not just to shine over 
or rule over others. 

On the higher level, they give independence and insight, strong 
judgement and high values. Fire types (those with strong planets in Fire 
signs) are able to penetrate into things and understand the underlying 
energy, motivation, or force behind them. Fire signs give leadership, the 
capacity to make alliances, and the ability to project warmth, light and 
beneficence. On the lower level, they may make us destructive. Our will 
may clash with those of others and bring us into argument and conflict. 
They may cause us to be vain, proud, or self-promoting. 

Well-placed planets in Fire signs give illumination, freedom and 
enlightenment. They show the soul coming forth in its manifestation. 
Wrongly placed planets in Fire signs can be burnt up and show the will in 
turmoil and complication. 

Air Signs 

Air signs show versatility of movement and change, generally more 
on a mental level. People with airy planets are often intellectual or at least 
mental types. They seek communication and realization of ideas and 
ideals; their love is usually of knowledge. They are often speculative and 
not concerned with practical results. They may live in their ideas and 
calculations, plans and projections. They show much work to do in the 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. SJ^LiuLh-A. 



The Signs: How Planets Transmit Influences of the Stars 115 

realm of thought and communication. They seek to ascend but may not 
have the foundation for it. Their energies may get scattered or diffused. 

On a higher level, they increase idealism and aspiration and the 
longing to go beyond this world. They can be philosophical or humani¬ 
tarian in their outlook. On a lower levej, they may keep us confused and 
ungrounded, not willing to face the facts about life or about themselves. 
They may want to change things according to their own notions that may 
not correspond to any reality or truth of things. They may be attached to 
their mental patterns and nervous eu'-gy that may not reflect anything 
real. 

Well-placed planets in Air signs give comprehensiveness, balance and 
sensitivity. Wrongly placed planets in Air signs have heir energy dis¬ 
persed. They show disturbance, uncertainty, and lack of consolidation and 
may cause mental or nervous problems. 

EXAMINING THE ELEMENTS IN THE CHART 

For a complete understanding of the elements in the chart we must 
examine the elements represented by the planets themselves, particularly 
that of the strongest planet. For example, one may have many plane, s in 
Earth signs, but if they are predominately fiery planets and strongly placed 
(especially an exalted Mars in Capricorn) one will have much energy, 
enthusiasm and motivation (fire) to accomplish things in the material or 
practical realm (earth). We would say such a person is “Fire operating in 
the field of the earth.” Their force or the quality of their nature would be 
more fiery, but their realm of manifestation would be more earthly. Even 
their physical constitution would usually be more fiery (Pitta), though they 
would be active through the body, senses, or the concrete side of the mind. 

If the planets are of different elements than the signs in which they 
are located, a certain cancellation or overpowering of elements can occur. 
If, for example, an individual has Mars, Saturn, the Sun and the lunar 
nodes (none of which has a watery nature) in Water signs, these planets 
may serve to negate the energy of water rather than to manifest it. They 
could even create air in the nature by this neutralization of water. If such 
planets are weakly placed, water may serve to overpower the elements 
and qualities the planets normally possess. 

Much of the nature of an individual and their issues in life can be seen 
in how the elements relate in the chart. We could examine these configu¬ 
rations element by element and planet by planet but there is not the space 
for it. For example, if a person has planets primarily in earth and air, there 
will be a battle between the practical and idealistic sides of the nature. If 
they are primarily in water and fire, the emotions and the will may be at 
odds. If they are mainly in earth and water,'their energy will tend to sink 


£7 'MxjxrlxrnlcjtLL 



116 


The Astrology of the Seers 

or contract itself. If they are mainly in fire and air, their energy will expand 
and ascend but perhaps disperse itself. 

The three qualities and the five elements are related. Cardinal quality 
is similar to fire; that is, energizing and expressive. Fixed quality is similar 
to water; gathering and stabilizing. Mutable quality is similar to air; 
fluctuating and communicative. 

The signs share the attributes of their respective elements — 


AIR SIGNS 


FIRE SIGNS 


WATER SIGNS 


EARTH SIGNS 


Light, subtle, mobile, dry and clear. They are 
expansive, expressive, relating, and sensitive, but may 
cause dispersion and disintegration. 

Hot, radiant, light, sharp and clear. They are active, 
guiding, penetrating, and separating, but may cause 
combustion and destruction. 

Wet, cloudy, cold, stable, smooth and soft. They are 
passive, yielding, receptive, and calm, but may cause 
stagnation and decay. 

Heavy, dark, hard, rough, static and slow. They are 
contracting, resistant, unyielding, and unexpressive, 
but also give stability, endurance, perseverance, and 
loyalty. 


USES OF SIGNS IN VEDIC ASTROLOGY 

Western astrology tends to focus on the Sun sign. In Vedic astrology 
the Ascendant is the most important factor, followed second by the Moon 
sign, and third by the Sun sign. This is logical because the Ascendant is 
the most quickly changing of all planetary factors. It changes signs in two 
hours, compared to two and a-half days for the Moon and a month for the 
Sun. Hence, it more directly reflects our individuality. As it is the point 
of orientation of the Earth to the heavens, it also more directly reflects the 
meaning of our particular incarnation on Earth. 

However, whatever sign has the greatest strength by aspect or asso¬ 
ciation of planets, will be the strongest in the chart. It may not be one of 
these three signs, though it usually is. 

The signs are not irreducible factors; it is the planets that are the main 
ones. For this reason, in Vedic astrology we speak of individuals according 
to their most powerful planet or planets, more so than their signs. We judge 
individuals primarily by their planets. 

Sometimes the strongest planet is not the ruler of the Ascendant, the 
Moon, or the Sun. Usually, if a planet aspects these factors and their rulers, 
it will overpower tl)em. For example, Saturn, as the strongest planet in the 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. ( EJU-il£IlA. 



The Signs: How Planets Transmit Influences of the Stars 117 

chart, will give Capricomian traits (the traits of its Cardinal sign) even if 
there are no planets in Capricorn. It is the qualities of the planets that are 
the essence of Vedic astrology. The signs are only one side of that. 

The following delineation of the signs is general, mainly according 
to personality types. It is primarily as Ascendants that their qualities are 
described here; but, to a lesser degree, the same indications apply as Moon 
signs or Sun signs. 

DESCRIPTION OF THE SIGNS 
Aries 

Aries is the positive sign of Mars, Cardinal Fire, the beginning of the 
zodiac, the head of the Cosmic Man (time personified), a ram. As sign 
number 1, Aries gives independence, force, self-expression, and a strong 
personal orientation in life. 

Aries types are dynamic, aggressive, competitive, and possess much 
initiative. They often live in their heads and can have a penetrating power 
of perception. They have scientific and logical abilities and may be good 
at research and invention, the development of new ideas. They are 
independent, adventurous, and skillful in what they do. They possess 
strong emotions and passions but usually remain in control of them. They 
are often willful, impulsive or headstrong and can be critical or opinion¬ 
ated; yet they can make good psychologists once they learn to examine 
themselves. Less evolved Aries types may be angry, impulsive, and 
manipulative, pushing their way through life and imposing their ideas and 
energies on others. They may be driven by their impulses and instincts. 

Though martial, their martial energy is expressed more through the 
mind than the body. They are prone to argument but do not often resort 
to violence. They may be vain, self-indulgent, or just overly preoccupied 
with themselves. While very good at developing strategies, they may 
become victims of their own cunning. They can think about things too 
much and can give themselves ulcers. Aries types can be self-centered 
and are not always sensitive to others. They benefit from relationship to 
balance them out. They are usually initiating a new phase of manifestation. 
Their key to spiritual growth is to use their sharp minds to discover truth, 
not to promote themselves. 

Taurus 

Taurus is the negative sign of Venus, Fixed Earth, the face and neck 
of the Cosmic Man, a bull. As sign number 2, it gives a strong sense of 
relationship, partnership, and communication of feeling. Taurus types 


£ 7 'Mxixrlxrn£cjtLL ( EJu.il£IlA. 



J18 The Astrology of the Seers 

seek balance and harmony in individual relationships and in their organi¬ 
zation of their immediate environment. 

Taurus people are stable, enduring, and fixed in their ways. They have 
a strong sense of form and beauty and may become artists and poets. They 
are often attractive, particularly when young, and like to adorn them¬ 
selves. They can be very possessive and may become businessmen, 
bankers or those who accumulate property. They are apt to be materialistic 
and sensual, and enjoy comfort, beauty, luxury or adornment around them. 
They often develop taste, refinement and grace. They communicate well 
with others and associate readily with foreigners. They tend to become 
obstinate and do not like to move from a position once they have accepted 
it as their own. They are slow to anger but also slow to forgive and can 
even be cruel or insensitive to those outside of their circle of association. 
They possess good memories but may become sentimental or cling to the 
past. They like to live in their body and senses. 

Taureans usually value marriage and a stable and happy home life. 
They can be very romantic and devotional and are often votaries of the 
idea that all is love. They are attached to the earth, often work with their 
hands and leave their mark of form on their practical environment. Their 
mode is to acquire, preserve and refine. Spiritually they are also more 
devotional and incline to tradition and ritual. 

Gemini 

Gemini is the positive sign of Mercury, Mutable Air, the lower neck 
and shoulders of the Cosmic Man, twins or a couple (a man and a woman). 
As sign number 3, it gives an energetic nature with a seeking of change 
and interchange, motion and invention. 

Those in whom the influence of Gemini predominates are often 
nervous, restless, and agitated. They possess quickness and adaptability 
of body and mind but can exhaust themselves through excessive activity. 
They have good intellects, excellent powers of speech and communica¬ 
tion, and a good Command of language. They may be writers, journalists, 
poets, secretaries, or computer programmers. They are good with infor¬ 
mation and statistics and may be scientists. There is a speculative side of 
their minds, however, and they can pursue ideas simply for their own sake, 
or get caught up in their own unrealistic fantasies or worries. They usually 
love knowledge. 

Geminis are as mobile in human relationships as they are in mind. 
They tend to marry more than once or have several partners. They may 
be strongly sexually oriented but must be careful, as their vital energy is 
not always as high as their imaginations. They love stimulation and 
novelty and can get easily addicted to media or computer-influences. They 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. ( EJU-il£IlA. 



The Signs: How Planets Transmit Influences of the Stars 119 

like anything that excites their nervous system or increases their velocity 
in life, but thereby they can become hypersensitive or neurotic. Their 
agility of mind may cause them to become deceptive or unreliable, and 
they can be tricky and hard to pin down. They may be indecisive and never 
bring anything to fruition. They are the most changeable of all types and 
are always on the go until their energy fails them. Once they come to seek 
inner knowledge rather than outer knowledge and sensation, they can 
become quite spiritual, as their energy is the most subtle and volatile of 
all the signs. 

Cancer 

Cancer is the sign of the Moon (an even or negative sign). Cardinal 
Water, the chest of the Cosmic Man, a crab. As sign number 4, it shows 
a need for mental and emotional stability and happiness. 

Cancer people are usually open, friendly, sympathetic, caring and 
nurturing, as they are under the sign of the mother. "They value human 
relationship and the exchange of feelings, particularly on an intimate and 
personal level. They usually have many people in their homes, friends 
coming and going, and enjoy cooking or caring for them. They seek 
popularity and are sensitive to the moods of the masses, through which 
they can gain social or political influence and recognition. Yet they may 
be overly emotional, sensitive, shy, attached, and dependent. They love 
their home and family but sometimes to the point of narrow mindedness. 
In the same way, they can love their community, country or religion in an 
enclosure of feeling. 

Cancerians are devoted, loving, and intuitive, often sensing immedi¬ 
ately the feelings of others. They can have powerful imaginations, yet may 
be bound by subconscious fixations and attachments. They are gentle and 
non-harmful, but may become defensive or cowardly. They are just and 
frugal but sometimes lack in will, initiative, and courage. They are 
receptive and can become contemplative. When they open up to the 
spiritual life, they are usually of a devotional bent of mind. What they 
follow, they will represent and project to the world at large. Once they 
feel connected, they gain confidence, initiative, and power and can shine 
over others like the Moon. Once they learn how to be receptive to truth, 
they can do great service in life and act with great power. 

Leo 

Leo is the sign of the Sun (positive), Fixed Fire, the solar plexus of 
the Cosmic Man, a lion. As sign number 5, it shows a need for order and 
harmony around a central will and character influence. 


£7 'MxjxrlxrnlcjtLL tf^iuLh.A. 



120 The Astrology of the Seers 

Leo individuals possess a strong sense of self, character, and will in 
life. They know who they are and want others to recognize it. They are 
often proud, bold, ambitious, and aristocratic. They respond strongly and 
personally to things and are dramatic, sometimes vain, in their self-ex¬ 
pression. They like to attract attention and may talk a lot about themselves. 
They like to shine in social situations and may dominate others. They 
prefer to be the center of attention and value honor, respect, and prestige. 
They are often strong souls and possessed of fine principles and good 
intelligence. They can be refined in their manners or philosophical in their 
outlook on life. 

Leo types have strong and noble hearts but can suffer from too 
powerful emotions or too much need for attention. They do not always do 
well in partnership and tend to form alliances with inferiors or to subor¬ 
dinate their partners to them. They may suffer from their children since 
they do not always give them enough independence. They like to turn 
others into satellites, who may in turn rebel against them. If they can 
control their pride they can develop much power of character that can take 
them through all the highs and lows of life and grant them a spiritual 
perception. Inwardly, they can develop greatness of soul and character. 

As they have a high standard for themselves, they can become very 
dejected if they fail or do not succeed as much as they wish. Such fallen 
Leo types can be among the most miserable of people. 

Virgo 

Virgo is the negative sign of Mercury, Mutable Earth, the intestines 
of the Cosmic Man, a virgin. As sign number 6 (2x3), it shows the need 
for balancing energy, particularly between body and mind. 

Like their Gemini counterparts under the influence of Mercury, Virgo 
types possess good intellects, command of the language, and nervous 
sensitivity. They make good teachers and have a strong sense of the facts. 
They also can project the healing ray of Mercury, and make good doctors 
and healers, and can be good at Yoga (particularly Hatha Yoga). They are 
more physical than Geminis, like physical exercise and may excel as 
athletes. Their knowledge has a more practical or informational side to it 
and they are often good at trivia. Their knowledge is seldom theoretical; 
it is usually tied to some form or practical manifestation. They make for 
good craftsmen, draftsmen, or artists, as they have a strong sense of form, 
line and detail. Virgos may become actors, as they can easily learn how 
to discipline their expression and project their emotions; they are more 
method actors than charismatic types, however. 

Owing to their sensitive and changeable minds and nervous systems, 
they may become neurotic. They often suffer from a nervous or variable 


^hjcLctIajtll.c-€lL SIhalLIlA- 



The Signs: How Planets Transmit Influences of the Stars 121 

digestion and elimination. They are usually the weakest physically of the 
signs and can more likely come down with difficult to treat disorders or 
chronic diseases, particularly problems involving the nervous system. 
Their body-mind coordination may fail them. Sexually, they tend to be 
shy when young but are prone to excessive sexual activity when older, 
though it is seldom open or freely expressed. 

Virgos are often discriminating and exacting about details, and prefer 
cleanliness and order. Their discrimination sometimes has a spiritual 
orientation and they can be good at philosophies like Vedanta that are built 
on purity and detachment. They possess good and factual memories. 
Being helpful and service oriented, they are good workers but can suffer 
from overwork or lack of recognition in what they do. 

Libra 

Libra is the positive sign of Venus, Cardinal Air, the lower abdomen 
of the Cosmic Man, the scales or balance. As sign number 7, it gives 
leadership, power and command of ideas. 

Libra has a somewhat different meaning in the Vedic than in Western 
astrology. In its stronger manifestation it is the sign of reformers, revolu¬ 
tionaries, prophets, idealists, and fanatics. Libra individuals have a strong 
sense of harmony, justice, and balance, particularly in the realm of ideas. 
They want to see heaven on earth. They are sensitive, humanitarian, 
excitable, and have the power to arouse and influence the masses. Their 
orientation is often political, in which sphere they often become leaders, 
even great generals. They love the truth and are devoted to their ideals but 
may go too far in their zeal and become propagandists. They have a strong 
sense of the world, or history as a whole, moving towards some ideal. 
Their idealism may also express itself through art and drama, which for 
them becomes a vehicle for social change. They like fame and recognition 
and seek an audience for their ideas. 

Librans are usually attractive and have a charisma that may become 
sexual. They are not much concerned with home and family, but under 
the rule of Venus, they do like to have beauty around them. This is often 
expressed as having circles of beautiful or famous friends. They often like 
to live in the clouds and have strong connections with the higher astral 
plane. They can attune themselves to the love of truth and thereby quickly 
leam to transcend the world. 

With their sociable nature, they are often successful and want to make 
a mark upon the world. They like business situations that give them 
administrative power or ability to influence others; yet they can lose 
themselves in their goals and projects. 


£7 'MxjxrlxrnlcjtLL tf^iuLh.A. 



122 The Astrology of the Seers 

Scorpio 

Scorpio is the negative sign of Mars, Fixed Water, the sexual organs 
of the Cosmic Man, a scorpion. As sign number 8 (2x4), it shows a need 
for balance and stability on a deeper or psychic level. 

Scorpio is a very profound and mysterious sign. As the negative or 
physical side of Mars, Scorpio people are often soldiers, policemen, or 
athletes. They like to use their martial force on a physical level and can 
be prone to the use of force. They usually have good muscles and like to 
exercise. When mentally developed, they have a good capacity for re¬ 
search and inquiry and may become chemists or surgeons. More evolved 
Scorpio types like to explore the depths of the mind and may have an 
interest in the occult and Yoga (Tantra). Their Kundalini can often be easily 
aroused for good 6r ill. They may like trying to work with or overcome 
negative forces and thus see life as a battle between light and darkness 
with which they may become obsessed. They are often fascinated with 
techniques or technologies for directing energy, either outwardly or 
inwardly. 

Scorpios can be very intelligent and perceptive but are cautious, 

- hesitant to reveal what they really think, or to expose themselves. They 
can be good orators or debaters and may become good poets, artists, or 
actors with their ability to express powerful emotions and sentiments. 
They are usually passionate and can be very attached sexually. When 
unevolved, they are prone to vice, perversity, or the underworld side of 
life and can become violent emotionally or physically. 

Scorpio types are intense, secretive. introverted, and sometimes trou¬ 
bled. They have an active subconscious and must keep their emotions 
clear and pure, free of envy and attachment, or they can get stuck on an 
emotional level; yet by this sensitivity they may develop a philosophical 
disposition and profound insight that the other types rarely attain. They 
can be caught in their solar plexus and the accumulation of personal 
power. They need to surrender to the heart.,The higher side of Scorpio is 
symbolized by the eagle, the profundity of vision and transcendence 
needed to subdue the serpent. . 

Sagittarius 

Sagittarius is the positive sign of Jupiter, Mutable Fire, the hips of the 
cosmic man, a horse, centaur or archer. As sign number 9 (3x3), it shows 
grace, beneficence, completion, and full harmony, the manifestation of ' 
the will in action. 

Sagittarius individuals project the positive side of Jupiter. They have 
a positive attitude in life, a generous nature, an expansive spirit, and a 


£ 7 'MxlxrlxFTLLGjaJ. SJ^LUjLh-A. 



The Signs: How Planets Transmit Influences of the Stars 123 

» 

moral, religious or philosophical disposition. They have a strong sense of 
principle, law, and justice. They are usually warm and friendly, dramatic, 
and seek to develop their principles in life. They make themselves noticed 
and can easily become active or involved with the expansion of the social 
forces they open up to. On the other hand, they can be too conventional, 
too law-abiding, and overly moralistic, often caught in some dogmatic 
idea. They may become lawyers, religious leaders, or successful business¬ 
men. They like to stay within the convention of the society, group, or 
organization with which they are involved. They possess critical minds 
and strong opinions but are prone to become self-righteous. Their minds 
may be too discriminating and fault-finding, and they may be unable to 
see their own limitations. 

Sagittarians are often athletic, though not always competitive. They 
like the outdoors, enjoy the wilderness, and are lovers of nature. They 
have a sense of play or even partying, which may become self-indulgence 
or group indulgence. They find it hard to settle down. They are lucky in 
life and things often come easy for them. The world often responds 
quickly, and favorably to them; they can inherit much from father or ' 
family. They are a helpful presence in any enterprise, as they bring much 
enthusiasm and make good and devoted friends. Yet, however successful 
they may be in the material world, they usually retain some sense of higher 
aspiration and are attracted to religion or the spiritual life. 

Capricorn 

Capricorn is the negative sign of Saturn, Cardinal Earth, the knees of 
the Cosmic Man, a crocodile. As sign number 10, it shows the state of 
power,'order and complete organization. 

' Capricorn is often the lowest and the highest of the signs in terms of 
achievement in life. It is the sign of practical realization. On the material 
level, this can create much worldliness and obstinacy and make people 
selfish. Less evolved Capricorn types may be sons of the earth, farmers 
who know little beyond their farm. Somewhat more evolved is the 
hard-headed Capricomian businessman who saves everything for some 
eventual great gain. On the spiritual level, Capricorn can give the capacity 
to manifest spiritual principles in daily life and practical work. 

Capricorn types are hardworking, persevering, and'tenacious, and 
have the power for eventual great accomplishments. They usually have 
to work for themselves and leam to value everything that comes through 
their own effort. They start slowly in life, often encounter many obstacles 
along the way, but thereby create the energy for long-term success. They 
are ambitious but often narrow in their goals and rigid or cutting in their 
opinions. They can be shrewd at business and are often good ip science 


£ 7 'MxjxrlxrnlcjtLL SI^lujLIlA. 



124 The Astrology of the Seers 

and technology, with a strong mathematical sense. They tend to be 
traditional and may have much past life karma in traditional and oriental 
cultures. 

They often need to learn more self-surrender, to take themselves less 
seriously, and to be less concerned about the outer form of things. They 
are often detached from their emotions, either by lower sensate or higher 
intellectual and spiritual values, or just by their strong sense of conven¬ 
tionality. 

Aquarius 

Aquarius is the positive sign of Saturn, Fixed Air, the lower legs of 
the Cosmic Man, the pot or the water bearer. As sign number 11, it 
indicates the group and the need to understand what individuality really 
is. 

Aquarius individuals are the most self-negative of all types. On a 
higher level, they 'nave more faith and the capacity to surrender the ego 
to the Divine. On a lower level, they have more belief in others and tend 
to denigrate themselves towards the ego demands of others or peer group 
influences. For this reason, they tend more towards sexual deviations than 
the other signs. They are prone to do what they are told not to do and to 
befriend those whom they are told to avoid. In this way their energy can 
be blocked, dissipated, confused, or darkened. 

On a higher level, they are willing to sacrifice themselves for the good 
of all and may be strongly humanitarian. On a lower level, they may accept 
a subservient, servile, or even degrading role in life and not protest against 
the injustice inflicted upon them. They like to take the side of the 
oppressed, rejected, the outcast, or disapproved elements of society. They 
often have much guilt and like to blame themselves. They act selflessly 
relative to what they repose their faith in. If that is in the Divine, they may 
become saintly. If it is some criminal group, they can even become 
underworld leaders. 

Aquarians may be eccentric and scattered in what they do, unclear as 
to who they are. They lack charisma and often fail as political leaders to 
attract the masses; yet by their faith and devotion, they are often successful 
as religious leaders and teachers. The water they bring is that of truth from 
their intuitive perception. 

Pisces 

Pisces is the negative sign of Jupiter, Mutable Water, the feet of the 
cosmic man, the fishes. As sign number 12, it shows the complete display 
of all possibilities but not necessarily their proper integration. 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. ( EJU-il£IlA. 



The Signs: How Planets Transmit Influences of the Stars 125 

Pisces individuals are emotional, expansive, intuitive, and imagina¬ 
tive. They are enthusiastic but not always wisely so. They like to influence 
others but are easily influenced themselves and may be vulnerable or 
impressionable. They are friendly and communicative and thus can relate 
to a variety of people. They can easily become dependent or make others 
dependent upon them. They are often sentimental and easily moved by 
feelings, including those that are not genuine. They are friendly and 
compassionate but can be moved by sympathy and pity. When frustrated 
in life, they often develop self-pity. They are usually attached to the past 
for good or ill and may accept the values of the culture and religion they 
are bom into. However, they are susceptible to missionary type influences 
and like demonstrations of faith. They like ceremony and ritual of all sorts, 
enjoy music and can be good musicians. 

Pisceans often lack in boundaries and may not have enough clarity 
and practicality. They can be amorphous, hard to pin down, and often 
appear in whatever way is necessary to please or placate others, reflecting 
the influence of the moment. As a Mutable and emotional sign, they tend 
toward emotional disorders and have sensitive digestive and nervous 
systems. They can become dependent on or addicted to sugar or alcohol, 
and often need special emotional acknowledgement or approval. They are 
not often good leaders but can make good followers or promotets. They 
lack in initiative and self-confidence, and like to dissolve themselves or 
merge in others. 

They need to control their imaginations and develop more discrimi¬ 
nation. Once they do this, they can reflect the creative joy of the soul. 

EXALTATION AND DEBILITY 

There is one sign in which a planet functions at its optimum, called 
its “exaltation.” Except for Mercury, which both rules and is exalted in 
Virgo, this sign is different from the signs ruled by the planet. In Vedic 
astrology, there is a specific degree of exaltation, a point in the exaltation 
sign where the exaltation is highest. These points of exaltation are 
different for every planet. Planets occupying their degree of exaltation are 
preeminently strong. 

These positions are — the Sun 10° 00' Aries, the Moon 03° 00' 
Taurus, Mars 28° 00' Capricorn, Mercury 15° 00' Virgo, Jupiter 05° 00' 
Cancer, Venus 27° 00' Pisces, Saturn 20° 00' Libra. Rahu and Ketu are 
sometimes given exaltation points as 20° 00' Taurus and 20° 00' Scorpio 
(hence, when one is exalted, so is the other). By the views of other Vedic 
astrologers, Rahu and Ketu are both said to be exalted in Gemini and 
Virgo, the signs of Mercury. 


^HxixrlxralcjtMJ. tf^iuLh.A. 



126 


The Astrology of the Seers 

Exaltation is an important factor in determining the strength of a 
planet and the favorability of its sign location. By some systems the 
strongest planet in the chart is the one closest to its degree of exaltation. 

The sign opposite that of exaltation is referred to as the sign of a 
planet’s “fall,” also referred to as “debilitation.” The degree opposite its 
degree of exaltation is its degree of its fall. Planets in their degree of fall 
are weak and can cause many difficulties. 

Planetary debility can be cancelled out by special factors. A planet 
with its debility cancelled can give very good results, perhaps even better 
than exaltation. 

The Sun in Libra with its debility cancelled can give a strong, 
self-confident, and expressive character. The Moon in Scorpio with its 
debility cancelled can give a very deep understanding of the psyche and 
is common in spiritual teachers, occultists, and psychologists. Mars in 
Cancer with its debility cancelled can give mastery over the feeling nature 
and the capacity for profound relationships. Mercury in Pisces with its 
debility cancelled can give a very profound, intuitive mind and much 
insight. Jupiter in Capricorn with its debility cancelled can give great 
wealth, political power, or the capacity to influence others. Venus in Virgo 
with its debility cancelled can give good artistic powers and charm. Saturn 
in Aries with its debility cancelled can give strong powers of leadership 
and strength of will. 

The first of such cancellation factors is if the debilitated planet is 
located in an angle from the Ascendant or the Moon. The point of the 
Midheaven is often strongest in this regard. If Mercury is in Pisces but in 
the Tenth house its debility is greatly reduced by its angular location. 

A second factor is if the ruler of the sign in which a planet is debilitated 
is itself exalted. For example, if in a particular chart, the Moon is located 
in its fall in Scorpio, but Mars as ruler of Scorpio is located in its exaltation 
in Capricorn, this can cancel the debility of the Moon. To a lesser extent, 
if the ruler of the debilitated planet is strong or in its own sign, the debility 
can be reduced. For example, if the Moon is in Scorpio but Mars is in 
Aries, the strength of Mars in Aries would help counter the weakness of 
the Moon. 

Another helpful factor can be if the debilitated planet has a planet 
exalted in one of the signs it rules. For example, if the Mars in a chart is 
in its debility in Cancer, but the Sun is in its exaltation in Aries ruled by 
Mars, the strength of the Sun would reduce the weakness of Mars. A less 
important factor is if a debilitated planet is retrograde. Generally, debility 
must be cancelled in at least two ways to be effectively countered. 

On the other hand, the exaltation of a planet can be cancelled similarly 
to the debility. The exaltation can be cancelled if the planet is under 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. ( EJU-il£IlA. 



The Signs: How Planets Transmit Influences of the Stars 127 

malefic aspect, in difficult houses, or is the dispositor of malefic planets. 
Retrograde motion may reduce it as well. A planet in exaltation, but 
neutralized, gives very poor results. 

If in a particular chart Saturn is debilitated in Aries (a sign ruled by 
Mars) but Mars is exalted in Capricorn (a sign ruled by Saturn) their effects 
would tend to neutralize each other, or the planet which is stronger in the 
chart would give more its results. This is because each planet would rule 
the sign of the other. If, however, the Moon is debilitated in Scorpio (a 
sign of Mars) but Mars is exalted in Capricorn (a sign of Saturn) the 
debility of the Moon would not taint Mars because Mars would be its ruler. 
The principle, therefore, is that the ruling planet or dispositor usually has 
more weight. Exaltation and debility are important, but they are not 
absolute and must be looked at with discrimination. 

MULATRIKONA 

Mulatrikona means “root trine.” These are special areas where a 
planet functions very well, almost as well as exaltation. They usually 
consist of some portion of the positive sign ruled by the planet. However, 
with the Moon, it is part of its exaltation sign, as the Moon does not have 
a positive or odd-numbered sign. With Mercury, it is part of its own and 
exaltation sign Virgo, as Mercury has no special sign of exaltation. 

The Mulatrikona positions are — Sun 4°-20° Leo, Moon 4°-20° 
Taurus, Mars 0°-12° Aries, Mercury 16°-20° Virgo, Jupiter 0°-10° 
Sagittarius, Venus 0°-15° Libra, Saturn 0°-20° Aquarius. 

DETRIMENT 

In Western astrology, a planet is considered to be in detriment if 
located in a sign opposite the one it rules, as Mars in Libra. 

Vedic astrology, we should note, does not recognize this. Location in 
a sign opposite a sign ruled by a planet is considered positive, as it allows 
a planet to aspect its own sign by its main or opposition (180 degree) 
aspect. The rule in Vedic astrology is that a planet is strong if it can aspect 
its own sign. This is particularly true of planets which possess no special 
aspects. For example, the Moon in Capricorn can be considered favorable, 
as it is only from there that it can aspect its own sign, Cancer. 

PLANETARY RELATIONSHIPS 

The strength of planets in signs depends upon their relationship with ; 
the ruler of the sign in which they are located. Planets are strong in their • 
exaltation, Mulatrikona, or own signs. For other signs other than these, 
there is a system of planetary relationships for measuring the favorable or 
unfavorable connection between planets. 


£7 'MxjxrlxrnlcjtLL tf^iuLh.A. 



128 The Astrology of the Seers 

Planets are strong in signs of their great friend or friend. Planets are 
neutral in strength in neutral signs. They are weak in the signs of their 
enemy or great enemy, and more so in their fall (opposite exaltation). 
These locations in the harmonic charts (Navamsha, etc.) have to be 
considered and are a factor for determining residency strength (sthana 
bala). 

Planetary relationships are twofold as “permanent” and “temporary.” 
Permanent relationships depend upon the natural status of the planets. 
Temporary relationships are similar to aspects and are another kind of 
relationship by position in a particular chart. 

In terms of permanent planetary relationships, planets tend to fall into 
two major groups — 

The Sun, Moon, Mars and Jupiter are usually friends. 

Mercury, Venus and Saturn are usually friends. 

Planets of these two groups are usually inimical to¬ 
wards each other. 

The main reason for this is that planets tend to be harmoniously 
disposed to those planets ruling signs of the same element. Mercury, 
Venus, and Saturn each rule an Air and an Earth sign; the-Sun, Moon, 
Mars, and Jupiter rule Fire and Water signs. 

The list of permanent planetary relationships shows the more specific 
scheme that evolves from this. The Moon, for example, is a friendly planet 
and is inimical towards none; hence, planets with which it would be 
enemies are mainly neutral. The Sun and Mercury are always close 
together; hence. Mercury is a neutral to the Sun, and the Sun is a friend 
to Mercury, rather than inimical as would be expected. Other exceptions 
exist but usually do not extend beyond a group friend or a group enemy 
becoming a neutral. 

Rahu and Ketu are sometimes given relationships similar to Saturn, 
but many astrologers do not consider their relationships as they are not 
primary planets. Some consider their relationships according to those of 
the planet which rules them (is their dispositor). Along a similar line, one 
may consider relationships for Uranus, Neptune, and Pluto according to 
those of Saturn, Jupiter, and Mars which they resemble in terms of 
proposed sign rulership. 


£7 'MxixrlxralcjaJ. Wh-tuth-A. 



The Signs: How Planets Transmit Influences of the Stars 


129 


PERMANENT PLANETARY RELATIONSHIPS 


PLANET 

FRIENDS 

NEUTRALS 

ENEMIES 

THE SUN 

Moon, Mars, 
Jupiter 

Mercury 

Venus, Saturn 

THE MOON 

Sun, Mercury, 
Venus, Saturn 

Mars, Jupiter, 
None 


MARS 

Sun, Moon, 

Jupiter 

Venus, Saturn, 
Mercury 


MERCURY 

Sun, Venus 

Mars, Jupiter, 
Saturn 

Moon 

JUPITER 

Sun, Moon, Mars 

Saturn 

Mercury, Venus 

VENUS 

Mercury, 

Saturn 

Mars, Jupiter 

Sun, Moon 

SATURN 

Mercury, 

Venus 

Jupiter 

Sun, Moon, 
Mars 

RAHU& 

KETU 

Mercury, Venus, 
Saturn 

Mars 

Sun, Moon, 
Jupiter 


TEMPORARY PLANETARY RELATIONSHIPS 

Planets in signs second, third, and fourth, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth 
from the sign in which a planet is located (counting that sign as the first), 
are regarded as its “temporary friends.” 

Planets in the same sign as a particular planet, or in the signs fifth, 
sixth, seventh, eighth, and ninth from it, are to regarded as its “temporary 
enemies.” 

By this we see that friendship occurs according to location in the 
quarter of the zodiac preceding and the quarter succeeding the particular 
sign in which a planet is located. They are in proximity but not on top of 
each other. Enmity occurs when a planet is distant from a particular planet 
or occupying the same sign. They are either too close or too far away for 
their rays to combine harmoniously. 

PLANETARY RELATIONSHIPS 
Composite 

The factors of both natural and temporal friendship have to be 
combined to get an accurate measure of the relationships between planets 
in any specific chart. 


Ift-dcrlxru. mjcjclL ( EJU-il£IlA. 



130 


The Astrology of the Seers 


Permanent Friend + Temporary Friend “ Best Friend 
Permanent Friend + Temporary Enemy ■ Neutral 
Permanent Neutral + Temporary Friend • Friend 
Permanent Neutral + Temporary Enemy • Enemy 
Permanent Enemy + Temporary Friend ■ Neutral 
Permanent Enemy + Temporary Enemy “ Worst Enemy 

The correct ascertainment of planetary relationships is essential for 
determining the value of planetary location or the effect of aspects. An 
aspect between friendly planets, for example, proves beneficial but one 
between enemies causes difficulty. Moreover, planets in a relationship of 
friendship function well for each other, even if not in any aspectual 
relationship, just as those in a relationship of enmity function adversely. 

Example of Planetary Relationships 


Vr 

Kr 




BIRTH CHART 

Mahatma Gandhi 

f R 

a 

i 

w 



!? 

5 

<? 

9 

Asc 

o 


Ascendant 

10°55' Libra 

Saturn 

21°48' Scorpio 

Sun 

18°23‘Virgo 

Rahu 

13°38' Cancer 

Moon 

29°38' Cancer 

Kctu 

13°38' Capricorn 

Mars 

27°5 r Libra 

Uranus 

01*06' Cancer r 

Mercury 

13°13' Libra 

Neptune 

27°50' Pisces r 

Jupiter 

29°37' Aries r 

Pluto 

27*04' Aries r 

Venus 

25°54' Libra 




The Sun is in Virgo, a sign of Mercury, a natural neutral. Temporally, 
it is in the twelfth, a friendly sign. Permanent neutral plus temporary friend 
equals friend. 

The Moon is in Cancer, its own sign. 

Mars is in Libra, a sign of Venus, a neutral. Temporally, it is in the 
first, an inimical sign. Permanent neutral plus temporary enemy equals 
enemy. 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. ( EJU-il£IlA. 




131 


The Signs: How Planets Transmit Influences of the Stars 

Mercury is in Libra, a sign of Venus, a permanent friend. Temporally, 
it is in tire first, an inimical sign. Permanent friend plus temporary enemy 
equals neutral. 

Jupiter is in the sign of Mars, a permanent friend. Temporally, it is in 
the seventh from Mars, an inimical sign. Permanent friend plus temporary 
enemy equals neutral. 

Venus is in its own sign. 

Saturn is in Scorpio, a sign of Mars, its permanent enemy. Temporally, 
it is in the second, a friendly sign. Permanent enemy plus temporary friend 
equals neutral. 

Rahu, should we wish to calculate its relationships, is in Cancer, a 
sign of the Moon, its permanent enemy. Temporally, it is in the first sign 
from the Moon, an inimical sign. Permanent enemy plus temporal enemy 
equals great enemy. Ketu is in Capricorn, a sign of Saturn, its permanent 
friend. Temporally, it is in the third from Saturn, a friendly sign. Permanent 
friend plus temporary friend equals great friend. 

PLANETARY SIGNIFICATORS 

There is yet another system, also unique to Vedic astrology, by which 
planets become significators of different aspects of our nature and differ¬ 
ent domains in life. This is determined by how many degrees they occupy 
by sign in the chart. To figure these out, we should take the positions of 
the seven major planets in the chart and, not noting the signs, place them 
in order of their degrees and minutes. 

The planet with the highest number of degrees in any sign becomes \ 
the Atmakaraka, “the significator of the self’ or self-indicator. This, like/ 
the lord of the Ascendant or a final dispositor, may become the most! 
powerful planet in the chart. It is often the most important planet to \ 
consider in judging the spiritual nature of the individual, particularly 
relative to its position in the harmonic ninth (Navamsha) chart. It provides 
us a key to the aspirations of the soul. We often regard its position as the 
Ascendant in the ninth and other harmonic charts and read the indications 
of the chart according to it. 

The planet second in its number of degrees in any particular signf 
becomes the Amatyakaraka, the significator of the confidant, symboli-* 
cally the minister to the king, the one to whom we are closest. On an inner 
level it represents the mind, the confidant of the self, and can be called t 
“the significator of the mind.” 

The planet third in the sequence becomes the Bhratrikaraka, “the . 
significator of brothers.” On a psychological level, it represents will, 
energy, and motivation; hence, we can call it “the significator of energy.” ; 


^HxixrlxralcjtMJ. tf^iuLh.A. 



132 The Astrology of the Seers 

The planet fourth in the sequence is the Matriputrakaraka, “the 
significator of the mother and of children.” On a psychological level, it 
represents our creativity, of which children are one expression, and can 
be called “the significator of creativity.” 

The planet fifth in the sequence is the Pitrikaraka, “the significator of 
the father.” On a psychological level, it represents our role or dharma in 
life, the rule or authority we follow, usually transmitted to us through the 
influence of our father. Hence, we can also call it “the significator of 
dharma.” 

The planet sixth in the sequence is the Jnatikaraka, “the significator 
of relatives.” On an inner level, it shows our capacity for interchange with 
society generally. We can call it “the significator of the world.” 

The planet seventh in the sequence becomes Strikaraka, the signific¬ 
ator of the wife or spouse. On a psychological level, it indicates our 
capacity for relationship and partnership, our love and affection in life. 
Hence, we can call it “the significator of relationship.” 

It is good to examine the conditions of these significators for the 
domains they represent. This is particularly true of their positions in the 
harmonic charts, mainly the harmonic ninth, but also the harmonics that 
relate to them (like the significator of brothers and the third harmonic). 
At least we should examine the condition of the significator of the self or 
self-indicator (Atmakaraka). 

As an example, we can take the chart above (that of Gandhi) noting 
the degrees of the seven major planets. The significator of the self or 
self-indicator will be the Moon at 29° 38'. The significator of the mind is 
Jupiter at 29° 37'. The significator of energy (brothers) is Mars at 27° 51'. 
The significator of creativity (mother-children) is Venus at 25° 54'. The 
significator of dharma (father) is Saturn at 21 ° 48'. The significator of the 
world (relatives) is the Sun at 18° 23'. The significator of relationship is 
Mercury at 13° 13'. 


?7#if/<rZcra.Zc.a/ ( EJhju£JlA. 



The Signs: How Planets Transmit Influences of the Stars 133 

THE 27 LUNAR CONSTELLATIONS 
The Nakshatras 


NAME 

EXTENT 

RULER 

1. Ashwini 

00° 00' to 13° 20' Aries 

Ketu 

2. Bharani 

13° 20' to 26° 40' Aries 

Venus 

3. Krittika 

26° 40' Aries to 10° 00' Taurus 

Sun 

4. Rohini 

10° 00' to 23° 20' Taurus 

Moon 

5. Mrigashira 

23° 20' Taurus to 06° 40' Gemini 

Mars 

6. Ardra 

06° 40' to 20° 00' Gemini 

Rahu 

7. Punarvasu 

20° 00' Gemini to 03° 20' Cancer 

Jupiter 

8. Pushya 

03° 20' to 16° 40' Cancer 

Saturn 

9. Ashlesha 

16° 40' to 30° 00' Cancer 

Mercury 

10. Magha 

00° 00' to 13° 20' Leo 

Ketu 

11. Purva Phalguni 

13° 20' to 26° 40' Leo 

Venus 

12. Uttara Phalguni 

26° 40' Leo to 10° 00' Virgo 

Sun 

13. Hasta 

10° 00' to 23° 20' Virgo 

Moon 

14. Chitra 

23° 20' Virgo to 06° 40' Libra 

Mars 

15. Swati 

06° 40' to 20° 00' Libra 

Rahu 

16. Vishakha 

20° 00' Libra to 03° 20' Scorpio 

Jupiter 

17. Anuradha 

03° 20' to 16° 40' Scorpio 

Saturn 

18. Jyeshta 

16° 40' to 30° 00' Scorpio 

Mercury 

19. Mula 

00° 00' to 13° 20' Sagittarius 

Ketu 

20. Purvashadha 

13° 20' to 26° 40' Sagittarius 

Venus 

21. Uttarashadha 

26° 40' Sagittarius to 10° 00' Capricorn 

Sun 

22. Shravana 

10° 00' to 23° 20' Capricorn 

Moon 

23. Dhanishta 

23° 20' Capricorn to 06° 40' Aquarius 

Mars 

24. Shatabhishak 

06° 40' to 20° 00' Aquarius 

Rahu 

25. Purvabhadra 

20° 00' Aquarius to 03° 20' Pisces 

Jupiter 

26. Uttarabhadra 

03° 20' to 16° 40' Pisces 

Saturn 

27. Revati 

16° 40' to 30° 00' Pisces 

Mercury 


This is the cycle of the 27 lunar constellations, which, as we see, is 
quite different than that of the 12 signs. They are used more for marking 
the qualities of the Moon, whereas the signs relate more to the Sun. 
However, both signs and constellations can be used to read the properties 
of all the planets. A planet benefits by being in its own lunar constellation. * 
Each constellation marks an area of the zodiac of 13 degrees and 20 
minutes. They come in three groups of nine: Ashwini to Ashlesha rule the 
first third of the zodiac; Magha to Jycshta, the second third; and Mula to 
Revati, the last. 

Vedic astrologers now consider that the vernal equinox is in 
Uttarabhadra. Previous records in Vedic texts show it to have previously 


£7 'MxjxrlxrnlcjtLL tf^iuLh.A. 



134 The Astrology of the Seers 

been in Ashwini, Bharani, Krittika, Rohini, Mrigashira, Punarvasu and 
perhaps yet further back as it moves backwards through the zodiac in the 
precessional cycle. 

A twenty-eighth lunar constellation is sometimes marked, called 
Abhijit, placed between Shravana and Dhanishta (constellations 22 and 
23). 

The main usage of the lunar constellations is for determining the 
planetary periods. They are also used, like the Sun signs in Western 
astrology, for determining personality types. They are used in marriage 
compatibility readings and in Horary and Electional astrology to deter¬ 
mine favorable times for action. 


?7#if/<rZcra.Zc.a/ ( EJhju£JlA. 



3 

THE HOUSES 


THE DOMAINS OF PLANETARY ACTION 


After planets and signs, the most important factor in all systems of 
astrology is the houses. The signs are a fixed twelvefold division of the 
zodiac and are the same for all charts. The houses are a changing 
> twelvefold division of the zodiac, as the point at which they start varies 
according to each chart. The houses reflect the position of the Earth in its 
daily rotation relative to the heavens. As the Earth rotates during the 
course of the day, the whole zodiac is gradually drawn to rise in the east 
and set in the west. Depending on the time of birth during the day, any 
point in the signs may mark the beginning of the houses. 

The houses are determined by the cardinal points of the Earth’s 
orientation to the heavens at the time of birth. The point of the zodiac 
rising on the eastern horizon at birth becomes the cusp or the determining 
point for the First house. The point of the zodiac directly overhead 
becomes the Midheaven or the cusp of the Tenth house. The other houses 
are usually determined mathematically from these two points. 

The term "house” arose as each of these areas delineates a domain of 
our life on Earth, the fields of our activity. The Sanskrit term is “bhava,” I 
which means a field of action. 

The point of the zodiac rising in the east or First house, is known as ^ 
“the Ascendant.” It is the most variable of the major factors used in ' 
astrology and thus is the one that gives the greatest specificity in predic¬ 
tion. The Sun passes through one sign in a month; the Moon, in two and 
one-half days; but the sign of the Ascendant changes every two hours. 
The Ascendant is the most important factor in prediction in Vedic astrol¬ 
ogy, with the Moon-sign second and the Sun-sign a distant third. This is 
logical since it is the most specific factor in differentiating charts. Two 
people bom the same day but at different times will have different 
Ascendants, though the other planets will change little, if at all. 

A difference in Ascendants makes a major difference in chart inter- ) 
pretations. T\vo people bom on adjacent days in the same year and at the > 
same time of day — for example, 10 A.M. on September 18th and 10 A.M. ) 
on September 19th — will usually have more in common in their chart ( 
interpretation than two people bom on the same day and same year but at i 


^HxixrlxralcjtMJ. tf^iuLh.A. 


136 


The Astrology of the Seers 

different hours. This is because those bom at the same time of day, in days 
not far removed from each other, will also have the same Ascendant. 

J The Ascendant is a spatial factor. It varies according to place on Earth 
and reflects geographical positions. TWo people bom at the same time but 
different places will have different Ascendant points — the more so, the 
' greater the distance between their places of birth. 

The Ascendant shows the orientation of the Earth in the astrological 
I chart. As such, it determines the outer domains of life and our action in 
the material world. We might say that it represents the Earth as a planet 
in our chart. The Ascendant indicates our physical incarnation and how 
we project ourselves into the world at large. The twelve houses delineate 
the different domains of action in life and our potentials within them. The 
| signs reflect more our nature or character; the houses, how we express 
’ and manifest it. The deeper and more cosmic aspects of our mind and soul 
t relate to the signs and the stars. The more personal and outer expression 
\of who we are comes through the houses and the Earth. 

In Vedic astrology we usually judge personality types not by the Sun 
sign but by the Ascendant. As the Ascendant determines the entire field 
of action for the individual, it becomes the lens through which we interpret 
all the different aspects of life. 

THE HOUSES AND THEIR ANALOGY TO THE SIGNS 

The houses in Vedic astrology have the same basic meanings as in the 
Western system, with a few important variations. Generally, the houses 
follow the analogy of the signs. 

The First house has a meaning like the first sign Aries, and shows 
the head, the ego, and the self-sense in life. The Second house corresponds 
to the second sign Taurus, and relates to the gathering and holding of 
personal and material resources. The Third house resembles the third sign 
Gemini, and governs curiosity and research. The Fourth house, like the 
fourth sign Cancer, relates to the mother, home, and emotional happiness. 
The Fifth house, like the fifth sign Leo, relates to our soul nature and 
creative intelligence. The Sixth house, like the sixth sign Virgo, relates to 
health and disease, work and service. 

The Seventh house, like the seventh sign Libra, indicates relationship 
and partnership. The Eighth house, like the eighth sign Scorpio, shows 
sex, death, the occult, vice, and the hidden side of life. The Ninth house, 
like the ninth sign Sagittarius, shows our religious, philosophical or 
ethical principles or opinions. The Tenth house, like the tenth sign Capric¬ 
orn, indicates our public status in life and our achievement in the material 
world. The Eleventh house, like the eleventh sign Aquarius, refers to our 
aspirations and goals as well as intelligence and friendship. The TVvelfth 


£ 7 'MxlxrlxFTLLGjaJ. SJ^LUjLh-A. 



The Houses: The Domains of Planetary Action 137 

house, like the twelfth sign Pisces, shows our subconscious and our hidden 
emotional nature. 

The Vedic system departs more from this analogy than does its 
Western counterpart, though neither follows it rigidly. This is particularly 
true for its interpretation of the Third and Eleventh houses. The meaning 
of the houses cannot simply follow the signs because it divides up a 
different kind of space. The signs show a cosmic division (sidereally) or 
solar (tropically), whereas the houses show one that is earthly. 

DIFFERENT SYSTEMS OF HOUSE DETERMINATION 

There are several different systems of determining the location and 
extent of the houses. Both Western and Vedic astrology have different 
systems of determining the houses and the controversies that go with 
them. Most of these variations of house determination are common to 
both. 

While house location and rulership are very important and central to 
Vedic astrology, they are less important for most Western astrologers. 
Some Western astrologers dispense with the houses altogether and just 
use four quadrants rather than twelve houses. 

The main difference between Western and Vedic astrology is in the 
interpretation of the house cusps. Both agree that the cusp is the most 
important and powerful point in the house, and that planets located at the 
cusp have the strongest effect and most typical meaning in terms of the 
house. However, while Western astrologers make the cusp the beginning 
of th e house, i n the Vedic systemthe'cusp marks the mi ddl e oTtfi eliouse. 
This can cause a difference in many house placements. The Firsthouse 
in Vedic astrology will contain half of the Twelfth house in the Western 
system, and so on. Naturally this gives rise to some different interpreta¬ 
tions. 

However, the distinction between the two systems is not as major as 
it appears. Most Western astrologers ascribe at least a 5° orb to the cusp 
of the house; sometimes this is extended to 10° for the luminaries, the Sun 
and the Moon. Planets located these degrees prior to the cusp, though 
technically in the previous house, are regarded as influencing the house 
through their conjunction with its cusp. In this way the difference in house 
determination is more like 5° to 10°, rather than 15°. Some Western 
astrological studies have found that planets have the strongest effect if j 
placed 8° prior to the Ascendant or Midheaven. This gives credibility to / 
the Vedic view that would place these points in the First and Tenth houses 
rather than the Twelfth and Ninth, which are not considered by anyone to 
be as powerful locations. 


£ 7 1 MjcLo4xjtijjcjclL tf^iuLh.A. 



138 The Astrology of the Seers 

In a Vedic chart, therefore, planets will not only go backwards the 
better part of a sign — they will also go backwards up to half a house. 

The problem both Vedic and Western astrology share is how to 
determine the location of the cusps of the houses. All agree on using the 
Ascendant as the cusp of the First house. Some like to use the Midheaven, 
the point in the zodiac directly overhead, as the cusp of the Tenth house. 
As house orientation is relative to position on the globe, this becomes 
more variable the further from the equator the place of birth may be. It is 
rare that there are exactly 90° between the Ascendant and the Midheaven, 
except near the equator or at the time of the equinoxes. 

In other words, the Earth’s orientation to the zodiac does not divide 
the zodiac equally, except at the equator. As we move away from the 
equator, it divides it in more and more unequal sections. This is just as the 
Sun appears overhead at the equator but appears at points lower in the sky 
the farther we move away from it. Hence, a twelfth of the day will not see 
a twelfth of the zodiac rising, just as the days vary in length the farther 
we go from the equator. In arctic regions, with their long periods of 
darkness or light which last days or months, some signs will not rise at all 
for days on end; others will not set for similarly long periods of time. 

House Systems Using the Midheaven 

If we use the Midheaven, the most simple method is to divide up the 
difference between the Ascendant and Midheaven equally. If, for exam¬ 
ple, the Ascendant is 20° Libra and the Midheaven 2° Leo — a difference 
of 78° — then we divide that by three. In this case, we get an extent of 
26° for each house. The cusp of the Eleventh house, then, is 28° Leo and 
that of the Twelfth is 24° Virgo. This is the method most often used in 
Vedic astrology. 

However, one may ask, if the difference between the Cardinal points 
of the houses is not equal, why should it be divided up equally? For this 
reason, various other houses systems, like the commonly used Placidian, 
have been formulated. This point certainly has its validity. 

We can use whichever of these systems we find most accurate or 
logical, as the difference is not always that great. As India is fairly close 
to the equator where such differences are less, this issue did not require 
as much consideration as in Europe, much of which is not far from the 
Arctic Circle. 

For common and easy usage, we can use a regular Western Table of 
the Houses with the Placidian house cusps (or whatever system we prefer). 
We can subtract the appropriate Ayanamsha from each and take them as 
the center of their respective houses. We can take a Western chart and 
simply subtract the appropriate Ayanamsha from all house positions and 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. ( EJU-il£IlA. 



139 


The Houses: The Domains of Planetary Action 

regard the cusps as the middle of the house. If planets are located between 
house cusps, the difference between the two cusps should be divided so 
that we know what house the planet is in the Vedic chart. 

As in our example above, if Mars is located at 16° Leo, between the 
cusps of the Tenth house at 2° Leo and the Eleventh at 28°, then dividing 
the difference, we find the end of the Tenth and the beginning of the 
Eleventh at 15° Leo, thus placing Mars in the Eleventh house. 

Astrological computer programs calculate these and usually allow 
some choice of systems. In all this it is best not to become too concerned 
about minor differences. There is more than one way to read nature. 


Equal House Systems 

Owing to the variability which arises in house systems that use the 
Midheaven, simpler systems have arisen that do not consider it as the cusp 
of the Tenth house. They regard the Ascendant as the cusp of the First 
house and place all other house cusps an equal thirty degrees from it. 

In such systems, if 5° Gemini is the Ascendant, the cusp of the Cecond 
house will be 5° Cancer; that of the Third 5° Virgo and so on. These are 
called “Equal House” systems. 

The advantage of these systems is that they are easier to calculate. 
They are also easier to read for aspects, as aspects are determined by 
degree position in signs, not by the angles as visible from the Earth. For 
example, a planet in the cusp of the Tenth house in the Equal House system 
will always be in a 90° or square aspect to the Ascendant. In non-equal 
house systems, no such aspect may be formed. A planet conjunct the 
Midheaven may not be at any angle aspect to the Ascendant. Aspects 
cannot be determined by sight in such systems, but require examining the 
exact degrees of planetary locations. 


Equal House systems become more important in extreme latitudes, 
north or south, where several houses may occur in one sign or several 
signs iq one house, which would otherwise make chart interpretation very 
complicated. 

The disadvantage of Equal House systems is that they do not ade¬ 
quately consider the Midheaven, a well-known powerful point in the chart 
in all systems. For this reason, it is wise to still add the Midheaven as a 
special point of power. In Equal House systems, the Midheaven may fall 
in the Ninth, Tenth or Eleventh houses. 


I 


House and Sign Charts in Vedic Astrology 

Vedic astrology usually employs two different systems of house 
determination. First, it has a special chart called the Bhava Chakra or 
House Chart,” which specifically measures the houses. It can be done in 


£7 'MxjxrlxrnlcjtLL tf^iuLh.A. 



140 


The Astrology of the Seers 

two ways. It can consider the houses according to the Midheaven. Or it 
can just consider them from the Ascendant as an Equal House system. It 
most resembles the house systems commonly used in Western astrology 
and has the same general variations. 

Second, it considers the houses in the Rashi Chakra, or “Sign Chart.” 
This we find to be more commonly used. In this chart it is not just an Equal 
House system that is used, it is an “Equal Sign” system. 

In it, for example, if some degree of Taurus is the First house, then 
Gemini will be the Second house; Cancer the Third; and so on. This is 
true even if it is 1° of a sign, or 29°. This is the most simple and general 
method of house determination, wherein primacy is given to the signs 
over the houses. 

Houses are determined generally according to the Rashi Chakra and 
then specifically according to the Bhava Chakra. The Bhava Chakra is 
thus another chart. In it, the position of the houses are given, not the signs, 
though sometimes the exact sign positions of the cusps are placed in or 
by the chart as well as the points in which the house begins and ends. 

Houses in Harmonic Charts 

This house by sign system most commonly used in Vedic astrology 
may appear rather simplistic to practitioners of Western astrology and 
their sometimes detailed approach to calculating the houses. In this regard, 
it resembles the issue of planetary aspects. Again, the additional use of 
harmonic charts gives greater specificity to the house meanings in the 
Vedic system and can take the place of more specific house delineation. 

We note the orientation of the houses, particularly the Ascendant, in 
harmonic charts. Most general is that of the harmonic third or decanate 
position. The most important of these harmonic charts is the harmonic 
ninth or Navamsha, from which all houses and aspects can be read as an 
ft additional chart. ,The Ascendant in the Navamsha is the most variable 
I factor in the chart, as it changes its sign every 13 minutes. As such it is 
the most important factor for fine tuning in the chart. 

In harmonic charts, houses and aspects are always determined by sign. 
V The birth chart, as the first or primary harmonic chart, can be read more 
j simply in this manner also. Houses by sign, like aspects by sign, allow for 
■ an easy harmonic calculation that can be rendered more subtle by har¬ 
monic subdivisions. Thus complex calculations are not needed and spec¬ 
ificity is not lost. 

Houses From the Moon 

Vedic astrology considers the Moon (and sometimes the Sun) as an 
Ascendant. As such, it makes the location of the Moon at birth the First 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. SJ^LiuLh-A. 



The Houses: The Domains of Planetary Action 14 j 

house. It uses the Equal Sign system again, with the Moon-sign as the 
First house, the next sign the Second house and so on. 

If a certain house from both the Ascendant and the Moon is aspected, 
then the results will be more certain. If, for example, the Fifth house from 
both the Ascendant and the Moon are both aspected by Saturn, inability 
to have children would be more likely than if only one of these were so 
afflicted. 

Use of Different Ascendants 

Vedic astrology can consider other houses as the Ascendant for 
different purposes. For example, in judging the affairs of the wife or 
partner, one can count the Seventh house as the Ascendant (for the wife) 
and examine the other houses from that point; that is, the Eighth house 
from the Seventh (the Second house in the usual order) as representing 
her longevity. Similarly, the Fourth house can be considered an Ascendant 
for the mother and the Ninth house for the father. 

So too, planets in malefic houses from a particular house, like Sixth, 
Eighth or Twelfth from it, will tend to adversely affect it. The opposite 
can be said for planets in benefic houses relative to a particular planet or 
house, like the Fifth or Ninth. 

Houses have a greater intricacy and importance in interpretation in 
Vedic than in Western astrology. The houses are treated as a system of 
coordinates that can be applied in various ways. However, the houses from 
the prime Ascendant and from the Moon-sign are the most important — 
the others are more for fine tuning. 

Secondary Usage of the House (Bhava) Chart 

As Vedic astrology considers the houses in the Rashi or Sign Chart 
from the Ascendant and the Moon and harmonic charts, often the more 
specific Bhava or House Chart is not used. Some practitioners use only '• 
the Rashi and Navamsha charts and do not do the Bhava at all. Most books 
seldom list the Bhava Chart. Nevertheless, very accurate readings can still 
be given. 

It is my view that the Midheaven should at least be considered as a 
point of power, even in the Rashi Chart, and that the Bhava Chart, though 
the least important of the three, is still helpful to do. One should know 
what it is and how to construct it, if necessary. 

To approach Vedic astrology, we must first of all leam to apply the 
houses in terms of the Rashi Chakra or Sign Chart, considering them both 
from the Ascendant and the Moon, in the Equal Sign system. Once these 
are understood, then we can consult the Bhava Chakra or House Chart 
(equal or otherwise) for more specific indications. 


£ 7 1 MjcLo4xjtijjcjclL tf^iuLh.A. 



142 The Astrology of the Seers 

As the house chart is oriented towards the outer affairs of life and the 
signs represent more the inner nature or soul, the more specific systems 
of house determination should afford us better detail in judging our actions 
in the outer world, while the sign-oriented systems should provide better 
knowledge of our inner nature. 

Let us take an example chart. The Ascendant is 25° Libra and the Sun 
is in 2° Virgo, in the Eleventh house in the House Chart (Bhava Chakra), 
but in the Twelfth house in the Sign Chart (Rashi Chakra). This would 
mean that in terms of outer actions the individual would have great goals 
in life and accomplish a great deal — an Eleventh house meaning. Yet in 
terms of their inner nature — they would be solitary or self-effacing, a 
Twelfth house meaning. 

Hence, once we have understood the basics, we can blend the meaning 
of different ways of looking at houses to afford us deeper insight into 
things. 

The house systems that do not consider the Midheaven, in effect 
regard the Ascendant as a planet — the most important of the planets — 
marking the pl anet Earth in t he chart. If we regard the Ascendant as a 
planetary point, then we can see how the scheme of the houses can be used 
relative to any planet as a system for showing how their energy is 
distributed. The twelve house system, thereby, can be used independently 
of its connection to the Ascendant. It becomes another system of deter¬ 
mining planetary influences that can be applied to each planet. It is this 
freer use of the houses as a system of coordinates that we find in Vedic 
astrology. 

HOUSES BY QUALITY AND ELEMENT 

Just as the signs are related by quality and element, so too are the 
houses. These qualities, to a lesser degree, can be applied to the houses 
ps counted from the Moon. 

“Angular” (Kendra in Sanskrit) houses are houses 1,4,7 & 10. These 
mark the angles or quadrants from the Ascendant. Planets situate d in 
an gles tend to be strong and activ e. Angular houses are similar in character 
to Cardinal signs. They are sharp, energetic, decisive, and penetrating. 
They give power for accomplishment and achievement as well as a 
generally outgoing or creative will in life. 

Of these, the Tenth is regarded as the strongest position, then the 
Seventh, Fourth and First, in that order. Planets in the Ten th dominate the 
c hart and overpower even the Ascen danf 

Malefics in angles can cause a difficult or darknature and inflict much 
damage in life, either on the person or through them. Benefics in angles 
afford luck, grace, and protection. * 


'MxlxrlxFTLLGjaJ. SJ^LUjLh-A. 



The Houses: The Domains of Planetary Action , 143 

“Succedent” houses (Panapara) are houses 2, 5, 8 & 11. Planets here 
are only moderate in strength. Succedent house s are similar in meaning ' 
to Fixed sign s. They show th e accumulation of resources a nd the devel¬ 
opment of stability and reserve. They help us preserve and maintain things 
but are not good for new developments or bringing things to conclusion. 
Of these, the Fifth is the strongest, then the Eleventh, Second, and Eighth. 

“Cadent” fiouses (Apoklima) are houses 3,6,9 & 12. Planets here are 
weak, uncertain, or hidden in their action. Cadent houses are similar to 
Mutable signs. They give mental sensitivity and general adaptability, 
which can give a high intelligence. They also tend towards instability and 
insecurity and can cause mental and nervous problems. They are usually 
better than angular ho uses for spiritual deve lo pme nt. Of these, the Nint h 
is the strongest, then the Third. Sixth, and T>yelfth. 

Usually, it is better to have some Angular planets in a chart to give 
any success in life. In fact, Quadrant planets are more important than 
Cardinal ones in this respect. If we examine the charts of famous, 
successful or powerful people, they usually will have strong Angular 
planets, though their signs may be Cardinal, Fixed or Mutable. For this 
reason the chart design used in North India is based upon the Angular 
houses as the most important factor. A chart without planets in angles is 
regarded as without distinction or power. Yet malefics in angles, though , 
they often give outward success, show a destructive character. I 

Planets in angles allow us to accomplish things, but too many planets j 
in angles can cause us to lack in sensitivity or introspection. Spiritual 
astrology gives them less importance than does Mundane astrology. In 
fact, without some major Cadent or Mutable planets, the spiritual life is 
usually not possible. Yet without some Angular or Cardinal planets, no 
decisive course of action, spiritual or worldly, is possible. Too many 
planets in any of these three groups can cause imbalance. Generally, a 
good balance of planets in all three is better than too many in any one and< 
serves to give more harmony (Sattva) to the nature. 

When people have planets in both Cardinal signs and Angular houses,} 
they may acquire a very decisive and aggressive nature, which can be 
highly Rajasic. When people have planets in both Mutable signs and 
Cadent houses, their nature is rendered sensitive, weak, or neurotic. When 
people have planets in both Fixed signs and Succedent houses, they are 
apt to be possessive and conservative. In all these cases, both sign and 
house qualities mutually reinforce each other. 

Different combinations of house and sign qualities are possible and \ 
should be studied carefully. Both should be listed and examined relative 
to each other. Generally, the sign qualities will more reflect character traits 


£7 'MxjxrlxrnlcjtLL tf^iuLh.A. 



144 The Astrology of the Seers 

and the house qualities capacity for success in the domains of life. Taking 
these factors independently of each other can lead to some mistakes. 

For example, people have predominately Angular planets but in Fixed 
signs. This will give them an underlying Fixed, stable and determined 
nature, but a capacity for much action and achievement in the world. It 
may help balance out the danger, inertia, and possible stagnation of too 
fixed a character. On the other hand, it may make people firm as a rock 
in their character but aggressive in action; a hard person to deal with, who 
imposes himself upon others. Planets in Mutable signs but Angular 
houses, on the other hand, will give outer success and communication 
abilities, but a basically changeable or possibly unstable character in¬ 
wardly. Apart from this basic system, other significant ways of correlating 
the houses exist — 

“Wne” houses (Trikona) are houses 1, 5 & 9. They form a triangle 
relative to the Ascendant. Residency in a Trine 7s a source of strength, like 
residency in a Quadrant, though a ngles are stronger than THnes. Jupiter 
likesjtines, as its trine aspect comes into play’’n them. The Moonalio 
does well in them. 

In this regard the Ninth house, though Cadent, is still very good, it 
being the best Trine. The Fifth also gets boosted by this factor and becomes 
the best Succedent house. Planets here, though hot as strong for outer 
'action as angular ones, are more important for the spiritual and inner 
I nature. The lords of these houses also become very auspicious for the 
chart. 

There is another special grouping of houses unique to Vedic astrology. 
Houses 3j 6, 10 & 11 are called U pachaya or increasing h ouses. Planets 
located in them increa se in stre ngth through time and give progressi vely 
beUerjesults as one gets pIderTTvIaleFics, like the Sun, Saturn, Mare, and 
the Lunar Nodes, are good in these houses, whereas they are not good in 
Trines (as they can indicate a malefic nature). However, the lords of these 
houses (except the Tenth) are usually inauspicious and can cause harm, as 
they are too impulsive in nature. 

Of these houses, the Tenth and Eleventh are the best locations, though 
the Tenth is more specifically an Angular house. The Eleventh is a good 
place for planets to be located in the chart as malefics do very well here 
and benefics do not do badly either (though not necessarily when located 
here with malefics). 

We notice by these different house factors that planets do well when 
they are located above the horizon in the chart, by the Midheaven, in 
houses 9, 10 & 11. They represent how we affect the world in terms of 
our values (Ninth house), actions (Tenth house), and goals (Eleventh 
house). Opposite them, houses 3,4 & 5 represent our self in terms of our 


£ 7 ^MxlxrlxralcjqJ. SJ^LiuLh-A. 



145 


The Houses: The Domains of Planetary Action 

vital energy (Third house), emotional state (Fourth house), and intelli¬ 
gence (Fifth house). 

The group of houses, 1,2 ,4,7 & 8 are said to be Apachaya or ho uses 
o f decrease . Planets located in these houses lose th eir strength thro ugh, 
ti me and malefics do not do well h ere. Of these, the Eighth is the worst, 
probably the most unfortunate house in which to have planets located 
(though it can still give high intelligence and some other good attributes). 

Houses 6,8 & 12 are said to be difficult or malefic houses, Dushthana. 
Planets located in them are weakened and can cause problems. In the Sixth < 
they can cause disease or enmity. In the Eighth they can cause disease, 
injury, loss, or death. In the Twelfth they can cause loss and sorrow. This 
is particularly true if they are under malefic aspects. 

Malefic planets in the Sixth house may be good for power but still j 
cause disease. Benefics in the Sixth can be good for intelligence but caiy 
also cause disease. Mars in the Eighth can cause violent death or losses] 
Saturn in the Eighth, however, can aid in longevity, though not give 
prosperity. Benefics in the Twelfth can give a spiritual nature or good 
rebirth. V enus is exception al in that it is usually g ood in the Twelfth house 
and can give comfort and prosperity. Ketu does well in the Tw elfth and 
can give spiritual insight and the ability to ward off negative psychic 
influences. Rahu similarly is good in the Sixth . It can give freedom from 
enmity and success through foreigners, though it can still contribute to 
nervous system disorders. 

Dushthanas are difficult points because they are places of transition, 
located on either sides of the Seventh house (houses 6 & 8) and just above 
the Ascendant (house 12). 

The houses are also related to the four goals of life. Houses 1,5 & 9 I 
relate to our basic nature, vocation, or career (dharma). The First shows j 
our basic nature in life; the Fifth, our creative expression; and the Ninth, 
the higher aspiration we are seeking. 

Houses 2, 6 & 10 relate to our wealth and possessions (artha). The 
Second shows our basic possessions in life; the Sixth, the work and 
difficulties they cause; and the Tenth, what we can achieve through them. 

Houses 3,7 & 11 relate to our desires (kama). The Third house shows >. 
our basic vital energy; the Seventh, the ways we wish to enjoy it; and the j 
Eleventh, the goals we wish to achieve through it. 

Houses 4, 8 & 12 relate to liberation (moksha), our seeking of < 
transcendence. The Fourth shows our basic seeking of peace and happi- f 
ness; the Eighth, the struggle we have to go through to find it; and the 1 
Twelfth, how wq have to negate ourselves to arrive at it. 

In addition, houses can be correlated to the elements, just as the signs. 
Houses 1,5 & 9, like signs of the same number (Aries, Leo and Sagittarius) 


£7 'MxjxrlxrnlcjtLL tf^iuLh.A. 



146 


The Astrology of the Seers 

represent the element of fire. Houses 2, 6 & 10 similarly represent earth. 
Houses 3, 7 & 11 represent air. Houses 4, 8 & 12 represent water. This, 
however, is a secondary factor and seldom deserves much weight. Yet, 
for example, we do note that many planets in the Twelfth, a watery house, 

, are often found in the charts of those who drown. We must also consider 
all these house qualities relative to the Moon-sign as another Ascendant. 

DESCRIPTION OF THE HOUSES 
The First House 

The First house relates to the self and indicates our basic self-expres¬ 
sion in life and in the material world. In Sanskrit it is called Tanur Bhava, 
whidh means literally “the house of the body.” It is the main factor for 
determining physical constitution but more generally shows our orienta¬ 
tion to life as a whole. 

It is the house of birth and shows our origin. Strongly afflicted, it 
produces difficult birth or even infant mortality. It indicates our congenital 
physical vitality, so that when weak, is a primary factor in ill-health. 

The Sun shows who we are in ourselves, in our basic character or 
individuality. The Moon shows how we relate to others, how we appear 
on a social level to friends and family. The Ascendant, or First house, 
indicates how we project ourselves on a public level — our initial and 
general appearance to the world at large. As such, it determines the whole 
structure of our outer manifestation; our personality as well as our body. 
Thus afflictions to it can cause mental disorders. 

For any significant accomplishment in life, a strong First house and 
I its ruler are necessary. It aids us in our career, as it helps establish 
self-identity and, therefore, is important for honor, integrity, fame, or 
recognition. Whatever it is associated with becomes intimate to our 
manifestation in life: aligned with factors of the Ninth house, it gives an 
ethical nature or spirituality; with those of the Sixth or Eighth house it 
gives disease; with those of the Second or Eleventh house it gives wealth; 
and so on. Through it the influences of the other planets are able to enter 
into us and become an integral part of our lives. The Ascendant is our 
significator in the chart, our vehicle in manifestation. It is the most 
1 important factor in the chart, and its strength or weakness can override 
i anything else. 

The Second House 

The Second is the house of livelihood. It relates to earning capacity 
and our ability to provide for ourselves in life. It does not indicate career 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. ( EJU-il£IlA. 



The Houses: The Domains of Planetary Action 147 

but helps indicate the financial success in it, particularly what accrues 
through our own labor. 

Relating to the face, it can show beauty or how we appear in life./ 
Relative to the mouth, it shows our appetite and may indicate taste, not' 
only in food; it can also show our sense of taste in art. As the house of' 
speech, it shows intellect and the capacity for communication. It repre¬ 
sents education, and as immediately following the First house, it shows 
the period of childhood. Afflictions to it can show unhappiness as a child 
or separation from the parents. 

Basically, it shows how we operate and express ourselves in life and 
our capacity for communication and commerce, whether in the material, 
social, or mental realms. According to its strength, it may give wealth, 
social prestige, or powers of speech and writing. Afflicted, it may show 
excessive spending, harsh speech, or excessive self-expression. 

Most of its indications relative to the ability to acquire material 
resources are the same as in Western astrology; yet most of its indications 
of intellect fall under the Third house in the Western system. 

The Third House 

The Third is the house of brothers, friends, and companions, of how 
we act as a member of a defined group of equals. It shows the people we 
like to do things with, how we act in cooperation, and our capacity for 
leadership. It shows the alliances we make to achieve particular goals. 

It is a martial house, a house of prowess, and is symbolized by the 
arms. It shows our basic energy in life — the impulse and intention that 
drive us. It reveals our passion or zeal in life, our courage and boldness 
in action, which may become rashness and impulsiveness. It indicates will 
and ambition, the force we project in life. 

The Third house shows our motivation and indicates our main inter¬ 
ests, whether physical or mental — what we really like to do. It shows 
whims and interests, sports and hobbies. Well-placed planets here can give 
a capacity for profound interest, deep research and scientific thinking. 

These meanings are different than that of the Third house in the 
Western system, which relates it more to the informational mind, rational 
thought, and logic. These appear under its curiosity aspect in the Eastern 
system. Combining both meanings, we would say that the Third house 
represents the acquisitive or motivated mind and can lead us into danger¬ 
ous actions. 

The Fourth House 

The Fourth is the house of home and happiness. It shows our house , 
and environment both outwardly and inwardly (the mind). It relates to the 


£7 'MxjxrlxrnlcjtLL tf^iuLh.A. 



148 


The Astrology of the Seers 


mother and to the domestic situation. As such, it shows our basic emo¬ 
tional nature, our heart or feelings, and is thereby important for determin¬ 
ing our joy or aesthetic sense in life, our appreciation of love and beauty, 
and our capacity for art. Upbringing, education, and refinement in life are 
sometimes seen through it. 

The Fourth house shows land and property, and our ability to acquire 
them. As the house of property in general, it shows the vehicles we may 
possess, like automobiles. It indicates the masses and thereby our popu¬ 
larity, particularly on a public level. 

On the psychological level, it shows how happy we are at home or in 
our emotional nature, and may indicate deep subconscious drives. It also 
relates to our capacity for rest and relaxation. It is the psychological house, 
per se, and afflictions to it show emotional and mental disorders and lack 
of peace. It is probably the most sensitive house, and afflictions to it can 
be hard to overcome. 

Spiritually, it is indicative of our faith and, often, of our family's 
religious background, and thereby shows our capacity for devotion and, 
contemplation. It indicates the nadir, the lowest point in the chart, and 
hence what is internal, hidden, and personal. Benefic planets here can be^ 
good for meditation. 

The Fifth House 

The Fifth' is traditionally the house of children. It represents our 
capacity to have children and shows the kind of relationship we will have 
with them. Afflicted, it either denies children or limits happiness with 
them. (Though, for the woman, the Fifth from the Moon is often more 
I important for children than the Fifth from the Ascendant). 

It is the house of creativity in general . On a higher level, it shows 
creative intelligence, our capacity for original thinking. Along similar 
lines, it indicates our capacity to give good advice and to counsel others. 
In this regard it is important for lawyers and politicians. Generally, it is 
the most important house forjudging o ur level of intelligen ce, as opposed 
to mere intellect, a factor which is not considered relative to this house in 
Western astrology. 

On the spiritual level, it is the house of the Ishta De vata (the chosen 
deity we worship in life) and indicates our aspirations. It shows our 
devotion, the truth which our guiding star. Like the Ninth house, it is a 
h ouse of grace a nd, even more so than the Ninth, it is a house of good 
karma and s hows the resources and merits (or lack of them) we bringjnto 
life, our ble ssing and curses. It is the house of mantra and shows our 
proficiency in using our words and thoughts with spiritual power v 


£ 7 'MxlxrlxFTLLGjaJ. SJ^LUjLh-A. 



The Houses: The Domains of Planetary Action 


149 


It is ajiouse of love, higher or lower. In this way it indica tes roman ce 
and Is the house of the 'Beloved (not necessarily the marriage partner). It 
is thereby a house of pleasure, enjoyment, sport, and recreation, and shows 
what we love to do. It is another house of wealth and fortune. As such, it 
shows our capacity to gain through speculation (like the stock market), 
how we can gain through our productions, creations, recreation, and 
imagination. 

The Sixth House 

The Sixth is the house of di sease and enm ity. It indicates op posit ion, 
difficulties, and obst acles in life, and can give many problems. 

As a house of disease, planets here tend to cause physical disorders 
according to their nature, particularly relativ e to the, diges tive system, 
which the house rules. Hence, influences here, like those to the Ascendant, 
are important for showing our physical constitution in life. 

It is a house of injury and shows wounds and accidents. It is a house 
of power and impulse and shows the negative effects of .abuse of power, 
which may be directed against us or come through us. It may show our 
own martial prowess or that of our enemies as well as the dangers and 
inevitability of self-harm, which come from any use of violent force. 

Malefics here (like the Sun, Saturn or Mars) are strong and can show 
our a bility to defeat our enemies : but they still tend to give health problems 
and much strug gle in life . As indicating our enemies in life,Hie Sixth may 
indicate theft or litigation and thus cause poverty. Consequently, it is 
indicative of where we should place our caution in life. 

The Sixth house relates to work and service, to our capacity for Ioanna 
Yoga and for discipline and austerity; thereby well-plac ed p lanets here 
cari aid in our spiritual evol ution . Yet it may also indicate overwork or 
cause us to become subservient. Benefics here tend to make us more 
s ervice orient ed, gentle, self-negating, and without enmity. The Sixth 
often gives skill and intelligence but seldom gives recognition for them. 
It is a house of effor t and shows o ur capacity t o do great labors. It also 
shows our relationship with foreigners or distant relatives. 

The Seventh House 

The Seventh is well known as the house of the partner — the wife in 
a man’s chart, the husband in that of the woman. It is the main house for 
judging marriage and male/female relationships. As the house opposite 
the Ascendant representing the Self, the Seventh house, or Descendant, 
represents one ’s oppos i te or co m plement , th e othe r. 

The Seventh is thereby a house of love and passion, and planets here 
give ^strong sexual nature. It represents more long-term, committed 


£7 'MxjxrlxrnlcjtLL tf^iuLh.A. 





150 


The Astrology of the Seers 

relationship rather than romantic infatuations, which are better repre¬ 
sented by the Fifth house. It indi cates partn ership in general, even on an 
impersonal level. 

As reflecting our relationship with “the other,” it shows aspects of our 
social nature and our capacity to affect others in general. Thus it may 
sometimes give p olitical p ower or po wer over others, particularly if 
malefics like S aturn or Mars are located here. Such malefics also may 
render us disturbed in our sexual function. 

Pla nets usually do n ot do well here for personal relationship, except 
J upiter o r a well-placed Mo on. Mercury causes quick or superficial 
relationships. Venus makes the nature sensual. Mars causes conflict but 
gives power. Saturn causes separation, detachment, and selfishness but 
also gives power. The Sun causes domination or control. Rahu and Ktftu 
give psychic or psychological sensitivities or derangements in relation¬ 
ship. 

The Eighth House 

The Eighth is the infamous hous e of dea th. It indicates d estruct ion, 
and dishono r and can show the negative, criminal or violent aspects of the 
mind. It can represent seve re chronic di seases o r injury lead ing to d eath. 
It can indicate those in life whom we are likely to lose to death. Planets 
here tend to cause us to suffer over the affairs they represent and give 
opposition and limitation. 

On a positive side, it can i ndicate wealth w hich can be gained through 
inheritance or legacy, as also those who work for an insurance company 
or who administer an estate. 

The Eighth house is a very deep and mysterious house. It indicates 
o ccult studies as well as profound thinking, research or invention, math¬ 
ematics, and philosophy. It can give proficiency in Tantric type Yoga 
practices. It gives a strong and piercing but not always beneficent intelli¬ 
gence and can s how geniu s. It can show distant travels or strange adven¬ 
tures, both in body and mind. It is the house of transformation. \\ 

On the negative side, it shows our connection with the dark or 
underworld side of life and can show evil in our nature. Drugs, prostitu¬ 
tion, and the power to manipulate others are shown here. It gives a strong 
sexual passjon as well, and often a good deal of sexu al attractive ness, but 
not usually the concern for partnership as in the Seventh house. 

It is the housecif longevity, indicating our span of life. S howing the 
na ture of our death, it also indicates the factors that tend to keep us alive. 
The negative and positive implications of this house are major factors for 
determining the ultimate meaning of our lives. 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. ( EJU-il£IlA. 




The Houses: The Domains of Planetary Action 151 

The Ninth House 

The Ninth is the house of dharma, “the law of one’s nature,” or “the 
principle of one’s being.” The Ninth house shows our j>rime values, 
principles, and ideals in life. It is the house of the father, and hisTate can 
be read from it. It shows the influences or authorities which guide and 
inspire us. 

It is the house of religio n, philosophy, and law, and indicates our 
spiritual and ethical disposition. As such, it relates to the deeper and more ' 
philosophical side of the mind and our capacity for abstract thinking. As 
showing our values, it can be useful in revealing our profession, particu¬ 
larly if we are teachers or religious figures, whose roles it rules over. 

It is the prime house of gra<je, fortune, and luck, and gives sudden and 
unexpected gains. in_life. Those who win lotteries or races usually have 
good influences from this house. Good planets here can go very far to 
counteract any negative influences in the chart. 

The Ninth house gives hono r, pr estige, and powe r in lif e, usually of 
a beneficent nature. It gives easy recognition and acceptance, and through ’ 
its strength, our principles are able to operate in the world and shape the 
course of events. It gives us a responsibility to use this grace in a 
beneficent way and we should not indulge in the good fortune it brings, 
or it can be wasted more easily than we would think. 

The Tenth House 0 CCo t Pn 

The Tenth is the house of karma, which means action. It is the main 
house for showing our effect upon the world generally. As such, it is often , 
related to career or vocation. The Tenth house does not in itself determine 
the career; for this, the First house and other factors are very important. 
What it does show is the success in career and the effect of our actions 
upon the world, t he status we are able to achiev e in life. 1 

In this manner, the Tenth house is a house of skill, achievement, honor, 
recognition, and prestige. It shows the position we are able to attain in life VV 
and the power that goes with it. It is an important house for determining 
political, social, or worldly power. The Tenth house measures our mark 
upon the world. It shows whether we bring good or bad karma to it. It can 
indicate pilgrimages and religious charities through its good karma side. 

As the highest point in the chart, planets here are generally very strong 
and can serve to raise us up in life. It can give us the favor of the 
government or established authorities. It causes us to want to be visible, 
to gain positions, titles, respect, and acknowledgement; hence, it can make 
us worldly or politically minded. Whatever we do will be noticed. The 
danger is that it will make us too outgoing and achievement oriented. 


£7 'MxjxrlxrnlcjtLL tf^iuLh.A. 




152 


The Astrology of the Seers 


The Eleventh House 

The Eleventh is the house of gains. It shows income or what brings 
us in crease. It indicates anything we may possess much of or find increase 
through. It relates to goals, aspirations, wishes, will, and ambition and the 
results we are able to acquire through them. It measures our individualistic 
motivation that can lead to impulsiveness and egoism. On the other hand, 
it indicates the possible realisation of our ideals and desires. In terms of 
family relationships, it represents elder brothers and sisters, and their fate 
is read through it. 

It is a house of abundance in which planets are usually vefy strong 
and favorable (even though the lord of this house usually has a negative 
power). Whatever planet is located here we will bestow its qualities upon 
us in great measure. Venus here, for example, can indicate having several 
wixes; Jupiter here can give wealth. On a higher level, the Eleventh can 
give great spiritual gains and show the development of an expansive and 
articulate intelligence (in this respect it resembles the Fifth house, whose 
opposite it is on the chart). 

The Eleventh gives great material gains, but there is often the ten¬ 
dency to be overly presumptuous about them and to over extend ourselves 
through them. It is not only the place of abundance but also of excess. 

This is somewhat different from the indications of the Eleventh in the 
Western system. Both systems see it as a house of goals and aspirations, 
but the Western view relates it more to group work, group expression and 
friendship. In the Indian system it is an individualistic and sometimes 
anarchic or egoistic house. It gives many resources, perhaps people, to 
manifest through, yet from a position not of equality but of power. 

The Twelfth House > 

The Twelfth is the house of loss, as the Eleventh is that of gain. It is\ 
a house of expense, as the Eleventh is that of income. It shows decrease, 
wastage, and decay. We tend to lose or waste away the traits of the planets 
located in this house. The Sun here shows a loss of self-confidence or a 
poor reputation; the Moon here shows emotional drain and moodiness; 
Saturn here causes worry or weakness of the nerves; Mercury causes too 
much thinking; Mars causings a wasting of our vital energy; and so on. 

The Twelfth is the house of s orrow, disapp ointment , and re signat ion. 

It indicates limitation, confinement, or adversity, sometimes imprison¬ 
ment. It is a secretive house and shows work behind the scenes, as work 
in a hospital, asylum, or monastery. On the other hand, it is also a house 
of passion, luxury and dissipation, the secret pleasures that keep us hidden. 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. SJ^LiuLh-A. 




The Houses: The Domains of Planetary Action 153 

The TWelfth represent s the past (as the Ninth house does theJ uturel 
and shows past karma we are bound to or past influences we are under. It 
can indicate guilt, regret, sorrow, and grief. It shows the subconscious, 
where our rational mind and ego are dissolved, and can indicate fantasy, 
illusion, mental disorders, or trance. It is an astral house and shows how 
we connect with the subtle planes. It indicates ou r after death-state, where 
our latent impressions and unresolved attachments will lead us. 

The TWelfth house represents the end of the life-cycle and shows 
exhaustion. However, as the negation of life, it also in dicates liberatio n, 
the denial of ego through renunciation and surrender. It is thereby a house 
of Yoga and meditation. It causes isolation or separation. It shows one 
alone, negated by external adversity into a state of sorrow, or negated by 
inner peace into enlightenment 

HOUSE CORRELATION 

A unique principle of Vedic astrology is the correlation of houses 
(what is called in Sanskrit Bhavat Bhavam, meaning literally “from house 
to house”). By this principle, houses which are the same number of houses 
away from a particular house as that house is from the Ascendant, will 
possess similar effects. 

For example, the Tenth house is a house of power, prestige, social and 
political influence. The tenth house from the Tenth house (counting the 
Tenth itself as the first house) is the Seventh house. Thus the Seventh will 
also be a house of power, prestige, and so on. 

The Ninth is a house of grace, luck, and fortune. Thus the ninth house 
from the Ninth, namely the Fifth house, will also share these traits. 

The Eighth house is a house of death, destruction, and longevity. The 
eighth from the Eighth, which is the Third house, will also indicate these. 
For longevity, then, we would examine not only the Eighth house but also 
the Third. If both are afflicted, it would much more likely indicate short 
life than if only one were afflicted. 

The Sixth is a house of disease, injury, and enmity. The sixth from 
the Sixth, or the Eleventh house, will also relate to these factors. Hence, 
if a planet is the ruler of both the Sixth and the Eleventh houses, it is doubly 
a significator of violence. 

The Fifth is a house of children, creativity, and intelligence. The fifth 
from the Fifth, or the Ninth house, can similarly be examined for deter¬ 
mination of the state of children, etc. 

The Fourth house relates to the emotional state of the person, home 
' and happiness. The fourth from the Fourth, or the Seventh house, can also 
be considered conjointly with the Fourth for determining these affairs. 


£7 'MxjxrlxrnlcjtLL tf^iuLh.A. 




154 The Astrology of the Seers 

Other applications of the principle of house correlation exist. For 
example, the TWelfth house is the house of negation, representing the end 
\ of life. Applying this principle generally, the twelfth house from any house 
will be its negation. The Ninth house is the house of fortune, grace, honor, 
and luck. The house twelfth to it, the Eighth house, will be the negation 
I of these traits; it will represent misfortune, disfavor, dishonor, and bad 
luck. The Seventh house represents relationship. TWelfth from it is the 
Sixth house, which will thereby represent enmity, conflict, or the denial 
of relationship. The Second and Seventh houses, being the negation 
(twelfth) from the Third and Eighth houses of longevity, can also represent 
death and the lords of these houses can cause death. 

This principle can also be used to show the negation of the meaning 
of negative houses. The Sixth house is a house of disease. Twelfth from 
it is the Fifth house, which thus indicates the negation of disease or the 
positive condition of health. Hence, increasing the influence of the Fifth 
house and its ruler can neutralize the effects of the Sixth house and help 
prevent disease. 


HOUSE SIGNIFICATORS 

Both Vedic and Western astrology judge the affairs of a house by 
noting the influences on the house and its ruler (the planet that rules the 
sign occupying the house cusp). To this, the Vedic system adds another 
planet as the general “house significator.” These planets are the same for 
all charts. Their position in the chart should be considered in regard to the 
affairs of the particular house. 

Some houses have more than one planetary significator, relative to 
different affairs under the sphere of the house. This helps us differentiate 
the meanings of a particular house (see examples below). 


FIRST HOUSE 
SECOND HOUSE 


THIRD HOUSE 
FOURTH HOUSE 
FIFTH HOUSE 

SECTH HOUSE 

SEVENTH HOUSB 


The Sun (significator of the self) 

Jupiter (as significator of earning capacity) 

Mercury (as significator of childhood, speech, edu¬ 
cation) 

Mars (as significator of energy and prowess) 

The Moon (significator of mind, emotions, mother) 

Jupiter (as significator of children, creativity, and in¬ 
telligence) 

Mars (as significator of enmity, injury and theft) 
Saturn (as significator of disease) 

Venus (significator of wife in male chart) 

Jupiter (as significator of husband for female) 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. SJ^LiuLh-A. 



155 


The Houses: The Domains of Planetary Action 


EIGHTH HOUSB 
NINTH HOUSE 

TENTH HOUSE 

ELEVENTH HOUSE 
TWELFTH HOUSE 


Saturn (as significator of death and longevity) 

Jupiter (as significator of dharma) 

Sun (as significator of the father) 

Mercury and Jupiter (as significators for profession) 
Sun (significator for fame and prestige) 

Jupiter (as significator of gain) 

Saturn (as significator of loss) 


We see that the significators of the houses are different than the rulers 
of the respective signs (following the house/sign analogy). Mars, as the 
significator of the Third house, is not the same as Mercury, the ruler the 
third sign Gemini. 

We also see that some planets are significators of more than one 
house: Jupiter relates to houses 2, 5, 7, 9 & 11; Saturn to houses 6, 8 & 
12. This can help us discriminate the different effects of a planet. 

For the indications of children in the chart, we can examine Jupiter 
and the Fifth house; for dharma (religion or spirituality), we can examine 
Jupiter and the Ninth; for income, Jupiter and the Eleventh; and for 
livelihood, Jupiter and the Second. For disease, we can examine Saturn 
and the Sixth house; for longevity, Saturn and the Eighth; and for sorrow 
and liberation, Saturn and the TVelfth. 

Rahu and Ketu, the Lunar Nodes, can be treated as joint significators 
with their planetary counterparts — Rahu with Saturn, Ketu with Mars. 
However, Rahu is a special significator of foreigners, judged relative to 
the Sixth house, while Ketu is the special significator of liberation, judged 
relative to the Twelfth house. 

Some may wish to use Uranus, Neptune, and Pluto in this regard. 
Pluto appears to correspond most to the Eighth house, death and the 
hidden will. Neptune may be useful relative to the Twelfth, as imagination 
and the subconscious. Uranus appears, like Saturn and the Sixth house, 
as a disrupting influence. 

The planets are significators of different things. Some of these we 
may not be able to define in terms of only one house. Venus, in this way, 
is the significator of art. Art can be judged by the Second house as poetry; 
the Fourth as the capacity for emotion, pathos or drama; and the Fifth as 
a measure of general creativity. 

^ i s usually good if the significator of a particular house aspects that 
ho use; iGjjQQtcgnsidered good if it is located in that house . For example. 
Jupiter in the Fifth house is not considered good for children. When a 
planet is located in a sign or house it owns or significates, any negative 
aspect Will be double, since it affects both the house and its indicator. 


£7 'MxjxrlxrnlcjtLL tf^iuLh.A. 


156 The Astrology of the Seers 

PLANETARY LORDS 

Astrology presents us with the play of the archetypal forces at work 
in life, the great powers of the cosmic mind. On one hand, these extend 
down into the cosmic unconscious — the teeming inconscient ocean of 
the ignorance wherein great elemental forces struggle. It is here, in the 
dark sea at the beginning of the world, that the inertia of the lower forms 
of life persist tenaciously with their primeval fears, desires, aggression, 
and attachment. On the other hand, these same forces extend upwards into 
the cosmic consciousness — the infinite ocean above the world, which 
contains in its great creative matrix the potencies of all redemption and 
transformation. As the latter is, mythologically speaking, the domain of 
the demons or titans (Asuras), the former is the domain of the Gods or 
Devas. These two domains are ever in conflict or opposition: the Gods 
with their ascending or evolutionary force and the demons with their 
descending or devolutionary force. 

It is through the elements of earth, water, fire, air and ether that these 
two forces clash: the Gods aspiring to bring the flux of the elements into 
a vision of cosmos, the demons straining to return them to the dull sleep 
of chaos. From this came the Greek vision of the world as a conflict 
between the elements and a conflict between the Gods and the demons — 
a view the ancient Hindus also shared. In the Hindu view, the Gods and 
the demons are the powers of light and darkness working through the 
senses, which is where our consciousness struggles between the inner and 
the outer worlds. 

However, these two warring forces are also related and in some ways 
complementary. The planets project both forces, the powers of both 
evolution and devolution, ascent and descent. These two powers are one: 
the undivine is the inversion or reflection of the Divine. The planets, in 
their higher or harmonized nature, function as deities to carry us up into 
the light. In their lower or conflicting nature, they become the demons 
that drive us into darkness and despair. It also depends upon how we use 
this energy. Using it consciously through self-knowledge, meditation, 
mantras, and gems, it moves us upwards. Using it unconsciously, not 
regarding the cosmic powers in our life, it drives us downward and puts 
us under a negative spell of illusion. 

The planets, as great Gods and great demons, are the lords of great 
power we must respect. They may create or destroy, further or restrain, 
either the ascending or descending force. As each planet is the natural lord 
of certain forces according to basic nature and sign rulership, so each 
planet is also a “temporal lord” or temporary ruler of certain forces 
through time according to the principles of house rulership. It is according 


^hjcLctIajtllc-€lL ( EJU-il£IlA. 



The Houses: The Domains of Planetary Action 157 

to this principle of house rulership that much of the great power of the 
planets comes out, for good or ill. 

One of the unique and most important principles of Vedic astrology 
is this principle of house rulership — that the nature of planets changes 
according to what houses each planet rules relative to the Ascendant. What) 
is a good planet for one Ascendant may be a malefic for another. Vedic 
astrology does not ascribe to planets a simple, fixed nature but modifies 
planetary nature according to each Ascendant. This principle is of partic¬ 
ular importance for understanding how planets project their effects 
through time. 

LORDS OF HOUSES 

Planets possess certain qualities relative to the houses they rule. The 
lord of the Fifth house mles over children. When Saturn, a sterile planet, i 
rules the Fifth, it becomes a creative force and loses much of its natural f 
sterility. When Mars, an unspiritual planet, becomes ruler of the Ninth 
house of spirituality, he gains in spiritual force. The disposition of planets 
as house lords is as important as their natural disposition. For the predic¬ 
tion of events, in planetary periods, it can be more important. 

The art of Vedic astrology revolves largely around the ability to 
combine natural and temporal status of planets for an integral interpre¬ 
tation. 

Many planetary combinations (called “Yogas” in Vedic astrology) are 
stated purely in terms of house lordship. For example, when the lords of 
the Second and Eleventh houses combine, it is very auspicious for wealth 
since both rul e houses of incom e. It is only of secondary import whether 
thfc planet lnvolvedls Jupiter, a natural significator of wealth, or Saturn, 
a natural significator of poverty. Jupiter would enhance the Yoga by its 
natural status. Saturn would cause the Yoga to manifest more slowly, with 
difficulty, or through such Saturnian domains as property. Nevertheless, 
the house lordship is the overriding factor. 

In this way, the meaning of the planets varies for each Ascendant. 
Each Ascendant has its own rules and the planets function uniquely 
relative to each. This is why the Ascendant is so important — it deter¬ 
mines not only the basic nature of the person, by its orientation it 
determines the general meaning of all the planets. Saturn for a Libra [ 
Ascendant, where it is a strongly benefic house ruler, has a radically 
different value than Saturn for a Leo Ascendant, where its house rulership 
is highly malefic. 

In Vedic astrology, therefore, we must learn not only the meaning of 
each Ascendant but also how planets function relative to each. The 
Ascendant colors the meaning of all the planets. The meaning of planets 


£ 7 1 MjcLo4xjtijjcjclL 



158 


The Astrology of the Seers 

depends as much upon the Ascendant as upon their own nature. Each 
Ascendant is a different astrological game and requires a unique shifting 
of astrological rules. 

LAWS OF HOUSE RULERSHIP 

Planets are classified as “temporal” or temporary benefics or malefics 
according to the houses they rule relative to the Ascendant. Generally 
speaking, those which rule benefic houses become benefics; those which 
rule malefic houses, become malefics. In this way, a naturally benefic 
planet like Jupiter may become functionally malefic in a chart should it 
not rule any benefic houses. 

Lords of TKne houses, 1,5 & 9 are always considered to be auspicious. 
Lords of Quadrant houses, 4, 7 & 10 are regarded auspicious if they are 
natural malefics, like Mars and Saturn (and by some accounts the Sun). 
Yet they are deemed inauspicious if natural benefics, like Jupiter, Mer¬ 
cury, Venus (and by some accounts the Moon). In other words, rulership 
of Quadrant houses reverses the normal benefic or malefic status of 
planets. Rulership of THnes, on the other hand, only enhances the nature 
of planets, makes them more benefic. 

Lords of malefic houses 3,6 & 11 are generally inauspicious, as these 
are houses of egoism, power, impulse, violence, and disease. Lords of 
malefic houses 2, 8 & 12 are generally malefic but functionally neutral. 
Their nature depends upon what other houses their planet rules. Of these, 
the stain of rulership of house 8 is greater than that of house 12 or 2. 
Therefore, while it is more problematical for planets to be in difficult 
houses like 6,8 & 12, the lords of houses 3,6 & 11 project a more negative 
force in the chart than the lords of these more difficult houses. 

The reasons for this system are complicated, but it is based upon 
principles of sign rulership. 

Dual House Rulership 

Planets rule two houses, except for the Sun and the Moon^ which rule 
one house each (they are sometimes regarded as a single planet in terms 
of house rulership). For this reason, the temporal status of planets has to 
be interpreted according to the meaning of both of the houses the planet 
rules. 

Planets often rule both a benefic and a malefic house. In this way their 
influence becomes mixed. It will be good for the effects of the positive 
house it rules, but bad for the effects of its negative house. The planets in 
this way reflect the ambiguity inherent within the Ascendant and within 
life itself. 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. SJ^LiuLh-A. 



The Houses: The Domains of Planetary Action 159 

Saturn for Virgo Ascendant rules houses 5 & 6. As the ruler of the 
Fifth house, it will be good for children, creativity, intelligence, and gains 
through speculation. As ruler of the Sixth, it may give bad effects in terms 
of health or enmity. This reflects the nature of Virgo — disciplined in 
action but tending towards disease through excess sensitivity. 

When a planet rules two houses, one benefic and one malefic, the 
house that is stronger or more important determines whether the overall 
effects of the planet are primarily helpful or harmful. Rulership of certain 
houses outweighs rulership of others. 

The ruler of the Ascendant is always generally auspicious, even if the ^ 
other house the planet rules is the Sixth, Eighth or other malefic houses; 
yet this malefic rulership does taint its status. 

The ruler of the TVelfth house generally gives the effect of the other 
house the planet rules. Venus, as the ruler of houses 5 & 12 for Gemini 
Ascendant, is very auspicious and gives mainly the results of the Fifth 
house. The negative effect of TVelfth house rulership is most evident if 
the other house a planet rules is malefic. Saturn, as ruler of houses 11 & 
12 for Pisces Ascendant, is very inauspicious because the Eleventh is a 
difficult house. 

In this regard, we must consider the Mulatrikona sign of the particular 
planet. Planets give predominantly the effect of the house ruled by their 
Mulatrikona sign. Saturn rules houses 8 & 9, the worst and best houses, 
for Gemini Ascendant Yet as Saturn’s Mulatrikona sign (Aquarius) rules 
the Ninth house, its effects will be on the whole more positive than 
negative. For Virgo Ascendant, Saturn is less auspicious, as its Mul¬ 
atrikona sign governs the malefic Sixth house. 

Another important factor is the natural friendship or enmity of a 
particular planet with the lord of the Ascendant. Though it rules malefic 
houses from Mercury Ascendants (Gemini and Virgo), Saturn as a natural 
friend of Mercury, tends to give better results than might otherwise be 
expected. If such a house lord is a temporal as well as natural friend of 
the planet, the effects of malefic lordship will be further reduced. 

Also important is which sign is stronger in terms of aspect or occu¬ 
pancy. If Saturn is in the Fifth house in Capricorn for a Virgo Ascendant, 
its Fifth house influence will become more important than his Sixth house 
affect. 

The Sun and the Moon 

The Sun and the Moon rule only one house each. TVo systems have 
come into being to deal with this. The first treats them as one planet. They 
rule the same houses as Saturn, relative to opposite Ascendants. Hence, 
by the laws of house rulership, they are auspicious planets for Aries, 


£7 'MxjxrlxrnlcjtLL tf^iuLh.A. 



160 The Astrology of the Seers 

Cancer, Leo, Scorpio, Sagittarius, and Pisces Ascendants, and malefics 
for the rest. 

By a second system, they are treated as separate planets: the Sun as a 
malefic and the Moon as a benefic. In this, the Sun is auspicious ruling 
Quadrants and Hines; the Moon is auspicious ruling Hines. The problem 
with this system is that the Moon as a benefic becomes malefic as lord of 
Quadrants. In fact, the generally benefic Moon, the friend of all the 
planets, becomes more often malefic than benefic as house lord. For this 
reason, we may not want to count the Moon as a negative house lord for 
ruling Quadrants. We do see, however, a number of instances of the moon 
giving bad results as the lord of the Sixth, Eighth or TVelfth houses. This 
is particularly when it is under malefic influence or is the dispositor of 
malefic planets. 

However, the Moon as an Ascendant in itself is thereby generally 
auspicious for all charts. When houses are counted from the Moon, the 
lord of the Moon-sign becomes auspicious from that perspective, just as 
the lord of the Ascendant in the usual order. When houses are counted 
from the Sim (a secondary procedure), the lord of the Sun-sign gains a 
similar auspicious status. 

House Lords as Specific Significators 

Planets as house lords have more specific meanings relative to the 
houses they rule. For example, the lord of the Eleventh house, though 
generally malefic in terms of health and prone to make the character 
egoistic or impulsive, is still the lord of the house of gains. As such, it is 
good for material acquisitions and often gives good intelligence and 
capacity to work with groups of peoples (these being the indications of 
the Eleventh house). 

When Mercury is the lord of the Second and Eleventh houses for a 
Leo Ascendant, it is a ruler of two houses of gain and income and as such 
becomes a double significator of wealth and income. Hence, apart from 
its generally somewhat malefic nature for this Ascendant in terms of 
health, it is particularly good for wealth. 

The rule is that a planet is good for the affairs of the houses it rules, 
though it may not be so for the Ascendant or the chart as 3 whole. This is 
because houses only represent one aspect of life and some rule over 
negative things in life. The lord of the TVelfth house in this way is good 
for giving losses, that being the power of the house that it boosts up, but 
it is not thereby good for the Ascendant as a whole. The lord of the Sixth 
house is good for promoting disease or giving power to our enemies, as 
that is what it rules. The lord of the Eighth can give death, negativity, or 
devitalization and so on. 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. SJ^LiuLh-A. 



The Houses: The Domains of Planetary Action 161 

Raja Yoga 

When a planet rules bot h a TKne and a Quadrant signj apart from the 
Ascendant), it gai ns a special power. It be comes a Raja Yoga Karak a or 
“significator of great power.” It can confer status, power,Imdprestige. In 
the most literal sense, it has the power to make one a king, and put one in 
a position of political or social power. This idea includes any great position 
of fame and power, like that of a judge, mayor, or administrator. However, 
it does not necessarily give wealth, knowledge, or spirituality, though it 
may give material gains through the power it yields. Most political leaders , 
have such strong planets; yet they are not rare in charts and should be 
reinforced by several factors to be really effecitive. 

For some Ascendants, one planet by itself can produce Raja Yoga. 
Such a planet is a doubly powerful temporal benefic. Saturn for Gemini 
and Libra, Venus for Capricorn and Aquarius, and Mars fo r Cancer and 
Leo, have such power. 

For Aries and Scorpio, Raja Yoga is produced by the combination of 
the Sun and the Moon. Other combinations of rulers of Trine and Quadrant 
lords (particularly the lord of the Ninth with the lord of the Tenth) can 
create Raja Yoga when well placed, and usually when the planet does not 
rule other bad houses. 

House rulership is one of the primary methods of ascertaining the 
power and effect of planets. It is as important as the basic meaning of 
planets and signs and helps fine tune those indications. The meaning of 
both natural and temporal statuses of planets must be blended properly. 

A good rule to remember is: Natural benefics, even when temporal 
malefics, will do some good, while natural malefics, even when temporal 
benefics, will cause some harm. 

When a planet has the same significance both naturally and tempo¬ 
rally, the effects will be clear, unmixed, and relatively easy to predict. 

Power of Ascendants 

According to this principle of house rulership, we can see that some 
Ascendants tend to be better than others, and for different things — 

Libra is sometimes regarded as the best Ascendant to have, because I 
for it, Saturn, ruling houses 4 & 5, becomes a Raja Yoga planet, a great I 
benefic; while the main malefic becomes Jupiter (otherwise the most 
benefic of planets), who therefore cannot usually do much damage. Some 
even consider that Jupiter can give good results for Libra Ascendant. 
Moreover, Libra is a Cardinal sign, which gives strength. Though Libra 
may be the best Ascendant for our capacity to affect the world, it is not 
necessarily the best for all other things. 


Ift-dcrlxru. mjcjclL ( EJU-il£IlA. 




162 The Astrology of the Seers 

On the other hand, Aquarius is sometimes regarded as the worst of 
Ascendants because the ruler of the Ascendant (which as Saturn is already 
a difficult planet) also rules the Twelfth House, the house of loss. Aquarius 
types seldom develop much fame, prestige, or charisma and often end up 
losers (Mondale was a typical example in the political world). At the same 
time, Aquarius is often regarded as the best of signs for spiritual growth 
( for this same reason, the Twelfth house also indicating liberation (for 
example, Ramakrishna). 

By a similar principle of house-sign correlation, we see that some 
Ascendants are difficult. For example, Virgo, as the sixth sign, has some 
of the negative indications of the Sixth house, the tendency towards 
disease. Scorpio as the eighth sign, has some Eighth house propensities 
relating to death, vice, or negativity. As the twelfth sign, like the Twelfth 
house, Pisces sometimes suffers from emotional confusion. 

Cardinal signs, particularly Libra and Cancer, often do better as 
Ascendants, particularly for political and social influence. Mutable signs 
do not always make for strong Ascendants for health or outer success, 
particularly Virgo and Gemini, yet do give much intelligence. Tine signs 
> like Leo and Sagittarius are usually auspicious as Ascendants. 

However, it is better to have a generally weaker Ascendant with 
strongly placed planets than a stronger natured Ascendant with weakly 
\ placed planets. Stronger Ascendants often give high potentials or expec- 
I tations in life, which if not met can give us a greater sense of failure. 

Planets by Ascendant 

The laws of house rulership allow us to differentiate Ascendants and 
adjust the meaning of planets relative to each. Each house represents a 
particular “field” of activity, the ruler of a particular house represents the 
“lord” of that field. Below is a list of the prime house significations: 

1. Self, body, general prosperity, well-being 

2. Livelihood, speech, youth 

3. Power, brothers, friends, motivation,*interest 

4. Happiness, home, property, mother 

5. Creativity, intelligence, romance, children 

6. Disease, enmity, foreigners 

7. Partnership, marriage 

8. Death, destruction, longevity, research 

9. Dharma, grace, fortune, father 

10. Skill, achievement, success 

11. Gain, aspiration, impulse 

12. Loss, sorrow, limitation, liberation 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. SJ^LiuLh-A. 



The Houses: The Domains of Planetary Action 163 

For example, if the lord of the self is in the field of destruction and 
the lord of destruction is in the field of the Self (that is, if there is an 
exchange between the First and Eighth house lords), then the individual 
is apt to have a short or difficult life. In this way, the system allows us to 
translate house nomenclature into meaningful terms. 

By rulership of certain houses, each planet becomes a temporal 
indicator of certain affairs in life, the most important of which are 
mentioned below. 

INDICATORS OF POWER — Raja Yoga Karakas 

This status has been discussed already. By ruling over two houses of 
power, a planet gains this strength. 

INDICATORS OF WEALTH — Dhana Yoga Karakas 

When a planet rules over two houses of wealth (dhana), it gets this 
status. Strongest is when a planet rules over houses 2 & 11 (the houses of 
livelihood and gain). Mercury for Leo Ascendants and Jupiter for 
Aquarius gain this status. 

Planets which rule houses 2 & 5, or 2 & 9 gain this power to a lesser 
extent. These are Mercury for Taurus Ascendant, Jupiter for Scorpio, 
Venus for Virgo, and Mars for Pisces. 

Dhana Yogas depend upon the ruler of the Second house, as the 
Second mainly determines wealth. The Eleventh as the house of income, 
the Fifth as giving gains through speculation, and the Ninth as giving luck 
and unexpected windfalls are also to be considered. 

INDICATORS OF KNOWLEDGE —Jnana Yoga Karakas ' 

Jnana is spiritual knowledge. Jnana Yoga Karakas give spiritual and 
other profound knowledge. Planets which rule both houses 9 & 12, (the 
houses of religion and liberation) acquire this status. These are Jupiter for 
Aries Ascendant and Mars for Libra. 

Planets ruling houses 2 & 9 gain this status secondarily, like Venus 
for Virgo Ascendant and Mars for Pisces. These give Divine grace or favor 
in life. 

Planets ruling both houses 5 & 8 (intelligence and research) also can 
give extraordinary mental powers if strong. Such planets are Mercury for 
Aquarius Ascendant and Jupiter for Leo. 

INDICATORS OF DISEASE AND INJURY 

The Sixth house represents disease, as does the Eleventh as the sixth 
from the Sixth. Planets ruling both houses 6 & 11 become powerful 


£7 'MxjxrlxrnlcjtLL tf^iuLh.A. 



164 The Astrology of the Seers 

disease significators. These are Mars for Gemini Ascendant and Venus 
for Sagittarius. Mars is the worst since it is a naturally harmful planet. 

The Eighth house represents death and chronic diseases. The eighth 
from the Eighth is the Third. Planets ruling houses 3 & 8 become strong 
significators of death and disease. These are Mars for Virgo Ascendant 
and Venus for Pisces. Such planets are also significators of longevity as 
both of these are houses of longevity. 

Planets which rule houses 6 or 8 along with other malefic houses (3, 
6, 11 & 12) become strong significators of disease. Such are Mercury for 
Aries Ascendant, Jupiter for Taurus, Saturn for Cancer and Leo . Jupiter 
for Libra, Mercury for Scorpio, Saturn for Sagittarius, Jupiter and the Sun 
for Capricorn, Mars and the Moon for Aquarius, and Saturn for Pisces. 

INDICATORS OF LIFE AND LONGEVITY 

Houses of longevity are 1, 3 & 8. Planets which rule two of these 
houses have special power in this area. Mars for Aries Ascendant and 
Venus for Libra ruling houses 1 & 8 have this status to the highest degree. 
Mars for Virgo and Venus for Pisces have this to a secondary degree as 
already mentioned. 

SIGNIFICATORS OF PASSION 

Houses of passion and sexuality are houses 5 (romance), 7 (marriage) 
& 12 (secret pleasures). A planet ruling over two of these houses can give 
a very strong passionate or sexual nature. Such planets are Mars for Taurus 
and Sagittarius Ascendants, and Venus for Gemini and Scorpio. 

SIGNIFICATORS OF EGOISM 

Houses 3, 6 & 11 indicate egoism, excess use of force, tendency 
towards a manipulative, aggressive nature, and ulterior motives. When a 
planet rules two of these houses (sometimes house 10 is also considered 
in this regard), if strong, it can make an individual overly impulsive and 
self-promoting to the point of blindness or violence. 

Such significators of impulsiveness include Mercury for Aries As¬ 
cendant, Mars for Gemini, Jupiter for Libra, and Venus for Sagittarius. 

Considering also the Tenth house also, we have Saturn for Aries 
Ascendant. Satur n for Leo can function this way as well, ruling houses 6 
& 7 (as the Seventh is the tenth from the Tenth). 

Mars for Aquarius and Venus for Leo are also very impulsive and 
power-seeking, ruling houses 3 & 10. 

Additional, more complicated indications can be derived through 
understanding the meaning of the two houses a planet rules. Mars for • 
Capricorn and Venus for Cancer rule houses 4 & 11. Hence, they can 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. ( EJU-il£IlA. 



165 


The Houses: The Domains of Planetary Action 

indicate gain (Eleventh house influence) through property (Fourth house), 
or they can indicate violence or inclination to injure (Eleventh house 
influence) in the mind (Fourth house). 

Such meanings should be blended with other indications, like the 
natural status of the planet or the attributes of other planets that it may 
combine with. In this way much depth of meaning can be discovered in 
planetary placements that may not appear very indicative. A planet must 
always be viewed according to the houses it rules and their meaning on 
all levels. The Sun and Moon can be more easily interpreted as they rule 
only one house at a time and will give their influence more unmixed. 

The following is a table of house rulership. Ascendant by Ascendant. 
One should leam this system of calculation based upon house rulership 
and observe the insights it can afford. A whole book could be written on 
this subject alone, as it is one of the core insights of Vedic astrology. Please 
note that this classification is general, relative to the variations already 
discussed. 


HOUSE RULERSHIP TABLE 
Temporal Disposition of Planets 


SIGN 

SUN 

MOON 

MARS 

MERCURY 

JUPITER 

VENUS 

SATURN 

Aries 

5 A 

4 A 

1,8 A 

3,61 

9, 12 A 

2,71 

10,111 

Taurus 

4 N 

31 

7, 4 121 

2,5 A 

8, 111 

1, 6 A 

9,10 A* 

Gemini 

31 

2 N 

6,111* 

1,4 A 

7,101 

5, 12 A 

8,9 N 

Cancer 

2N 

1 A 

5,10 A* 

3,121 

6,9 A 

4, 111 

7,81* 

Leo 

1 A 

12 N 

4,9 A* 

2,111 

5,8 A 

3, 101 

6,71* 

Virgo 

12 N 

111 

3,81* 

1,10 A 

4,71 

2,9 A 

5,6 N 

Libra 

111 

ION 

2,71 

9,12 A 

3,61 

1,8 A 

4,5 A* 

Scorpio 

10 A 

9 A* 

1,6 A 

8,111 

2,5 A 

7, 121 

3,41 

Sagittarius 

9 A 

8 N 

5,12 A 

7,101 

1,4 A 

6,111 

2,31 

Capricorn 

81 

7 N 

4,111 

6,9 A 

3,121 

5, 10 A* 

1,2 A 

Aquarius 

71 

61 

3,101 

5,8 A 

2,111 

4, 9 A* 

1,12 A 

Pisces 

6 N 

5 A* 

2,9 A 

4,71 

1,10 A 

3,81 

11,121 


A ~ Auspicious, I ■ Inauspicious, N ■ Neutral or Mixed 

A* - Very Auspicious, Raja Yoga Karaka, I* - Very Inauspicious 


^7#it/<rZtra.Zc.a/ WfLUjthS. 



Mercury 



“Dressed in green, with a green body, 
who has four arms, the incarnation of 
Vishnu, who is a yogi, whose vehicle is a 
lion with an elephant’s trunk, who carries 
a sword, shield and book in his hands, the 
son of the Moon, with an emerald crest 
jewel on his head, making the gesture that 
gives boons, may Divine Mercury ever 
grant us His grace. 57^,., g W/uL 



4 

PLANETARY ASPECTS 


AND COMBINATIONS 


All systems of astrology, East and West, base their predictions on the 
aspects which exist between the planets in the chart. By the theory of 
aspects, planets project their influence to certain points from their given 
position in the zodiac. These are determined by the angle of arc of the 
zodiacal circle relative to the planet’s position. 

Imagine the zodiac as a circle and the locations of the planets as points 
along that circle. Draw a line from the points of the planets to the center 
of the circle. If we then compare the positions of any two planets, a certain 
angle or arc of that circle will be created. This can be measured in terms 
of degrees. Some of these degrees (like 90°, 120°, or 180°) create various 
aspects according to the different systems of astrology. 

ASPECTS IN WESTERN ASTROLOGY 

Western astrology carefully considers the exact degrees between 
planets in its calculation of aspects. It has major aspects like the square or 
trine, 90° or 120° aspects, and minor aspects, like the semi-sextile, 30°. 
These aspects are counted as effective if the planets are within a certain 
number of degrees or orb of each aspect (for major aspects, orbs are around 
8 °; for minor aspects, l°-3°). Aspects are considered to exist equally, 
whether a planet is before or behind another planet in the zodiac. Both 
planets are considered to be affecting each other. Many Western astrolo¬ 
gers have gone into great detail and minute accuracy with these different 
aspects, and it is a major consideration in the system, if not the most 
important. 

Western astrology ascribes a different nature to the different aspects. 
Some aspects tend to be malefic or difficult (like the square); others tend 
to be benefic or easy (like the trine), whatever the planets involved. 

ASPECTS BY SIGN 

While Vedic astrology uses aspects, it is in a different way, which 
may at first be difficult to comprehend for those familiar with Western 
astrology. First of all, it judges aspects not according to the exact degree 
of angle between the planets involved, but relative to sign. In the opposi- 


^HxixrlxralcjtMJ. tf^iuLh.A. 




168 


The Astrology of the Seers 

tion or 180° aspect (the main one used in Vedic astrology) a planet aspects 
the sign opposite it not just the degree. The aspects are not between 
planets, but from planets via the signs they are in, to other signs in the 
zodiac and whatever may be contained in them. 

In this way, for example, Jupiter in Aries, by its opposition aspect, 
would aspect the sign Libra, the house ruled by the sign Libra, and any 
planets located in that sign. If Jupiter is in 5° Aries and Saturn in 25° Libra, 
the aspect would still count (though it would be too wide an aspect by 
standards of Western astrology, being 20° from a direct opposition). 

Some Vedic astrologers do consider aspects to be stronger the more 
they approach the exact distance of arc. They may regard such aspects to 
exist independently of signs, at least to a limited degree. If Jupiter is at 1° 
of Aries and Saturn is at 29° of Virgo, the planets are not in opposite signs 
but the angle of their aspect is 178°, very close to an exact opposition. In 
this instance, Vedic astrology may still count this as an aspect, though the 
orbs of such non-sign aspects would be considered small, perhaps less 
than 5°. 

Imagine the twelve signs as keys on a piano keyboard: Each planet is 
like a finger striking that key. As long as a planet is in a particular sign, 
it will be affecting the whole of it. By another analogy, imagine each sign 
to be like a separate room and the planets to be like lights. Wherever the 
light is in the room, it will light up the whole of it. The first and last degrees 
of signs are like doorways. At these juncture points, the planets can 
influence both signs; but once out of these small doorways, they have little 
influence on adjacent signs. 

In addition, planets affect signs differently according to their nature, 
just as different pressures of the finger affect the keys on a key board 
differently. The basis of Vedic astrology is thus harmonic like music. 
Aspects are counted relative to the twelve signs as the main harmonic 
division. 

Aspects by sign are easy to figure and do not require knowing the 
exact degrees of planets. They do not have to be calculated in addition to 
the chart. For this reason, Vedic charts do not have the list of aspects most 
Western charts require. 

With aspects counted by sign, Vedic astrology uses fewer aspects than 
Western astrology; it usually only considers a few major or full aspects. 
In addition to this, it does have a complex way of showing the aspectual 
strength of planets that considers the exact degree distance between 
planets, but this is a special factor for subtle calculations, not the com¬ 
monly used way of viewing aspects. A lot of the special and minor aspects 
now being commonly used in Western astrology, like quintiles, semisex- 


£ 7 'MxlxrlxFTLLGjaJ. SJ^LUjLh-A. 



Planetary Aspects and Combinations 169 

tiles or quincunxes, are not used at all or are used only in special instances 
in the Vedic system. 

Aspects as Reflecting Planetary Nature 

Vedic astrology does not ascribe any particular quality to different 
aspects. Aspects are distinguished only by their strength as major or 
minor. All aspects represent a relationship between planets. The nature of 
that relationship depends primarily upon the nature of the planets, not 
upon the type of the aspect. It does not regard oppositions or squares as 
being bad or difficult, or trines as being good or easy. It depends upon the 
planets involved. An opposition of a badly disposed Sun, say in its fall in 
Libra, may prove very difficult, but when well disposed, exalted in Aries, 
it may prove very beneficial. A square from Mars in Aries (its own sign) 
to Jupiter in Cancer (its sign of exaltation) can be good, as both planets 
are well placed. Major or minor aspects change the strength of the 
relationship between planets, but different aspects are not regarded as 
altering the quality of that relationship. 

In the Vedic system, all the information given on judging planetary 
nature is useful for determining the effects of aspects. An aspect from a 
great malefic like Saturn will tend be difficult, whatever it is. An aspect 
from a great benefic like Jupiter will tend to be helpful, whatever it may 
be. The detailed way of determining the status of planets by nature and 
house rulership provides a similarly detailed way of judging the qualities 
of aspects. Once we have ascertained the nature of a planet and its action 
in the different domains of life, its aspects will reflect that. 

SPECIAL ASPECTS 

Vedic astrology ascribes certain aspects only to certain planets. While 
all planets share a general scheme of aspectual influence, some planets 
possess special aspects which other planets do not have, except as minor 
aspects. 

Hines, 120° aspects, are regarded as a special full aspect for Jupiter, 
which other planets possess only as a minor aspect. Squares, 90° aspects, 
are given as full aspects only for Mars (forward in the zodiac) and Saturn 
(backward in the zodiac). This may be the basis of the Western astrological 
consideration of trines as good and squares as difficult, as trines are related 
to benefic Jupiter and squares to malefic Mars and Saturn. 

According to Vedic astrology, aspects do not change the qualities of 
planets, but some planets change the power of aspects. 


£7 1 HjdxrUrmXcjaJ- ( EJiiai£JlA. 



170 The Astrology of the Seers 

Aspects Only Thrown Forward in the Zodiac 

Vedic astrology regards the influence of planets in aspects as only 
thrown forwards in the zodiac, whereas Western astrology usually sees an 
aspect as coming from both planets. Whereas Western astrology considers 
a square to exist between one planet and another in an angle of 90°, 
whether in front or behind it in the zodiac, the Vedic system would only, 
for example, consider the square of Mars to be thrown on planets 90° in 
front of it in the zodiac, and not to those planets a similar number of 
degrees behind it 

The Vedic system calculates aspects by degrees from a planet forward 
in its zodiacal position. If Saturn is at 3° Gemini and Mars at 3° Pisces, 
Saturn would have an aspect of 270° to Mars, and Mars 90° to Saturn. 
Hence, in calculating aspects in the Vedic chart it must be done forwards 
in the zodiac. 

Aspects to Signs and Houses 

In Western astrology, aspects are considered only between planets, or 
from planets to special points like the Ascendant or Midheaven, some¬ 
times the Descendant and Nadir. In the Vedic system, planets aspect 
houses as well, even if there are no planets located in them. They do this 
if they aspect the sign on the cusp of the particular house. Their aspect on 
houses can improve or detract from the affairs of that house, depending 
upon the nature of the planet. 

The main rule in chart judgement is to examine an issue according to 
the house that relates to it, the ruler of the house, and the house significator, 
not only from the Ascendant but also from the Moon. Aspects to all these 
factors are considered. 

For spirituality or religion, for example, we consider the influences 
on the Ninth hous e, its lord, and Jupiter , and also the ninth from the Moon. 
In this regard we do not just consider the aspects betweenplanets but the 
entire network of aspectual affects on all the factors in the chart that relate 
to a particular issue in life. Hence, Vedic astrology may consider these 
aspects upon houses as more significant for judgement than the aspects 
between the planets themselves. Afflictions to the fifth sign and Fifth 
house, for example, may stand out more in a chart than afflictions to their 
rulers, the Sun, or ruler of the Fifth house (which, however, are also 
considered). 

ASPECTS EAST AND WEST, A COMPARATIVE VIEW 

From the standpoint of Western astrology, the aspects of Vedic 
astrology appear general and non-specific. A few major aspects by sign 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. SJ^LiuLh-A. 




Planetary Aspects and Combinations 171 

appear as very limited, compared to a diversity of aspects by degree and 
with different qualities. Such a Western astrologer may wonder how Vedic 
astrology can be accurate with such limited use of aspects. 

It must be recognized that the Vedic system does not use aspects in 
the birth chart in such a primary way like Western astrology. In this regard 
Western astrology may be more developed and precise, and it may be 
helpful to consider the western view of aspects in the Vedic chart. In fact, 
it may be this specialization on aspects that is the most important factor 
in the accuracy of Western astrology. Western Sidereal astrology follows 
the same aspects as Western Topical astrology and may be used as a model 
in this respect. 

We must not overlook that Vedic astrology judges aspects also in its 
series of minor or harmonic charts. This allows for many subtler type 
aspects and a finer analysis of exact degree relationships between planets. 
Western astrology may find twenty or more major aspects existing be¬ 
tween the planets in the birth chart, and several dozen minor ones. Vedic 
astrology may only note perhaps ten major aspects between planets in 
most charts, but these are multiplied by up to sixteen harmonic charts. 

Vedic astrology judges planetary relationships by a more extensive 
system of which aspects are only one part. These are based largely on 
planetary location, like the series of planetary relationships of friendship 
and enmity we have already examined, as according to other special 
planetary strengths and weaknesses (the factors of Shadbala). Of primary 
importance for it are special Yogas or planetary combinations. These 
depend upon various factors, including aspects, sign and house location 
and rulership. We will examine these in the later part of this chapter. 

As such, taking the system of Vedic astrology as a whole, we find that 
it is very intricate, complex, and precise, and includes many more calcu¬ 
lations and considerations than Western astrology, though in some areas 
each system may be better developed than the other. 

MAJOR PLANETARY ASPECTS (full aspect) 


PLANET ASPECT 


Sun, Moon, Mercury, Venus 


7th 


Mars 

4th 

7th 

8th 

Jupiter, Rahu, Ketu 

5th 

7th 

9th 

Saturn 

3rd 

7th 

10th 


The primary rule is that all planets aspect the seventh sign from the 
sign in which they are located. This is similar to the opposition or 180° 
aspect in Western astrology. 


^M-cLctL(JTLL€Z-€lL ( EJU-il£IlA. 



172 The Astrology of the Seers 

Mars, Jupiter and Saturn, the distant planets, and Rahu and Ketu, the 
Lunar Nodes, possess special aspects — 

Mars, in addition to the regular seventh aspect, aspects the fourth and 
the eighth signs. The fourth aspect is similar to a square, or 90° aspect in 
Western astrology, of an approaching nature. The eighth aspect is like a 
quincunx, or 150° aspect in Western astrology; but it only throws this 
aspect on planets behind it in the zodiac, so the real angle is 210°. 

Jupiter, Rahu and Ketu, have special aspects on the filth and the ninth. 
These are the same as trines, 120° aspects in Western astrology, operating 
both forwards and backwards in the zodiac. 

Saturn has special aspects for the third and the tenth. Its aspect on the 
third is like a sextile, or 60° aspect in Western astrology but only operates 
on planets in front of it in the zodiac. Its tenth aspect is a square, or 90° 
aspect, but operates only backwards; hence, its angle is really 270°. 

For most purposes in Vedic astrology, only full planetary aspects are 
used. Some Vedic astrologers consider that a full aspect occurs from a 
1 planet located tenth from another. This is worthy of consideration. Planets 
\ in the Tenth house have a full aspect on the Ascendant by this view. 

SAMBANDHA 

/ When planets are in mutual full aspect, they are said to be in 
| Sambandha, which means “complete connection.” 

This complete connection, or Sambandha, exists by other factors. 
When planets exchange signs — for example, when Jupiter is in Aries (a 
sign ruled by Mars), while Mars is in Pisces (a sign ruled by Jupiter) — 
this is considered to be a complete connection, like a mutual full aspect. 
It is called “mutual reception” in Western astrology, and is one of the most 
' powerful connections possible between planets. 

By some practitioners of Vedic or Hindu astrology, a mutual full 
aspect also exists between planets located in Quadrant houses (1,4, 7 & 
10). For example, if Venus is in Taurus in the Fourth house, and Jupiter is 
in Leo in the Seventh house, this is counted by some is counted as a full 
aspect, though no actual technical major aspects exist. 

Some astrologers extend this rule to planets in mutual TVines (houses 
1,5 & 9). Others figure mutual Quadrant or THne aspects from the Moon 
as well as the Ascendant. These may be accurate, particularly when the 
Moon is as strong or stronger than the Ascendant. I do not usually give 
aspectual power to these mutual house relationships, though they are often 
important forjudging the strength of the chart via house positions. 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. SJ^LiuLh-A. 



Planetary Aspects and Combinations 


173 


PLANET ASPECT STRENGTH 








174 


The Astrology of the Seers 


CONJUNCTION 

Planets in close proximity are said to be in conjunction. This is a kind 
of intimate association. In Western astrology, conjunction is counted as a 
full aspect and given an orb of around 10°, depending upon the planets 
involved. 

In Vedic astrology conjunction is not considered to be an aspect, as 
aspects are only regarded possible when there is a certain distance between 
planets. Yet, along with aspects, it is counted as a kind of planetary 
relationship, a full planetary relationship like a full mutual aspect, and 
constituting Sambandha 

Conjunctions, like aspects, are counted by sign; yet the closer in 
degrees the planets are to each other, the stronger the affect of the 
conjunction, particularly relative to the Sun. 

PLANETARY ASPECTS (all aspects) 

All planets aspect the seventh sign with a full sight or influence. They 
aspect the fourth and eighth signs with a three-quarters sight or influence. 
They have one-half aspect on the fifth and ninth signs. They have 
one-quarter aspect on the third and tenth. 

For Mars, its special aspects, which are generally given three-quarters 
influence, are regarded as full. For Jupiter, Rahu and Ketu, the usual 
one-half influence aspects, their special aspects, are regarded as full. For 
Saturn, the one-quarter influence aspects, its special aspects, are counted 
as full. The rest of the additional aspects for these planets is like that of 
the other planets. 

Minor aspects, including those of three-quarter influence, are usually 
not used in reading charts. Their main place is as added into other factors 
for determining planetary strengths, as part of the system of Shadbala. 
Moreover, these aspects increase proportionally to distance. They do not 
have orbs. For example, a planet in exact opposition would have a full 
100% aspect. Located exactly in the eighth sign away, 210°, it would have 
three quarters or 75% aspect. However, located in between, 195° away, 
it would have 87.5% aspectual strength (see chart). 

Aspects for Uranus, Neptune and Pluto 

As Uranus, Neptune and Plutq are not part of the regular Vedic system, 
no judgement of aspects for them exists. We can ignore them altogether, 
yet it can be helpful to use them. To use them, we must consider that they 
possess the same major aspects as all planets. This is the seventh aspect 
or opposition, to which the conjunction can be added as a full planetary 
interchange. 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. 



Planetary Aspects and Combinations 175 

However, we might want to count these by degrees, rather than signs, 
with an orb of 10° or less, as their affect as distant planets may not be that 
strong (which is what I often have done). 

I cannot say whether they should have special aspects and do not 
usually give them such. In one respect, we might consider that they should, 
because the other planets outside the Earth’s orbit are given them, But, in 
another respect, we may not think so, as they may be too distant to have 
such a strong affect. 

One could give them special aspects like the planets they resemble: 
Uranus like Saturn (third and tenth), Neptune like Jupiter (fifth and ninth) 
and Pluto like Mars (fourth and eighth). Or one could give them aspects 
like the Lunar Nodes (fifth and ninth), which they also resemble. How¬ 
ever, giving them special aspects would allow them great power in the 
chart and may unbalance, rather than fine tune, the general interpretation 
of Vedic astrology, unless their aspects are considered minor. 

COMBUST 

Planets in close conjunction with the Sun become combust or burnt 
up. They can be weakened and may be rendered powerless. 

For Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn, the orb of conjunction of combust is 
8 ° 30'. For the Moon, a larger planet, it is 15°. For the inner planets it is 
less, being 4° for Venus and 2° for Mercury. However, if a planet is in a 
favorable sign or house the effects of combust can be greatly mitigated. 
Planets in the same sign with the Sun are still counted as in full relationship 
with it (sambandha), even when not combust. Their affect is often better 
because of this. 

Generally speaking, all planets function better if located some dis¬ 
tance from the Sun. This is particularly true of the Moon, Mercury and 
Venus, which are subject to waxing and waning phases. Just as the Moon 
is strongest when full and becomes weaker as it approaches the Sun, so 
are Mercury and Venus strongest when at maximum distance from the 
Sun and become weaker as they approach it To a certain extent, this is 
also true of the other planets. 

The logic behind combust is that when in proximity to the Sun, the 
rays of planets are overcome by the power of the solar light; so conjunction 
with the Sun must be generally regarded as a negative for the energy of 
any planet. 

PLANETARY WAR 

When two planets are in conjunction of one degree or less, they are 
said to be in a state of “war.” There is a clashing of the forces of their 
respective rays. The planet with the lower degree longitude becomes the 


£ 7 1 MjcLo4xjtijjcjclL tf^iuLh.A. 



176 The Astrology of the Seers 

winner of this planetary war. For example, if Mars is at 23° 35' Sagittarius 
and Venus at 23° 17', then Venus is the winner of the war. Benefics who 
have lost a planetary war with a malefic may be rendered very weak, 
whereas benefics who have won a war with a malefic become much 
stronger. 

The rules of planetary war do not apply in the case of the Sun (or the 
Moon). For the Sun the rules of combust apply. Conjunction with the 
Moon is usually considered to be benefic. Rahu and Ketu, as they possess 
retrograde action, have a stronger effect in the degree above a particular 
planet, but are also not regarded according to the rules of planetary war. 
If a planet is retrograde and technically loses a planetary war, the damage 
is considered to be less. 

HEMMING IN OF PLANETS 

If the Moon is in Libra, with Saturn in Scorpio and Mars in Virgo, 
then it has malefic planets around it in both adjacent sides. In this instance 
it is said to be “hemmed in by malefics.” While this is not technically an 
aspect, it does have a strong affect like a major aspect. The Moon will be 
strongly under the influence of these two planets and weakened by their 
malefic nature. 

If the planets involved are Jupiter and Venus, then the Moon would 
be “hemmed in between benefics,” which would thereby protect it and 
strengthen it. (Of course, for more accuracy, we must consider the full 
nature of planets, not just their natural status as benefic or malefic, this is 
just an example). Such formations must be considered in determining 
planetary influences, and they may constitute various planetary Yogas. 

A similar construction may be made by planetary aspects. If the Moon 
is in Libra while Scorpio and Virgo are under the full aspect of malefic 
planets only without other influences, then the Moon also is hemmed in 
between malefic influences. Since this kind of condition is not direct, it 
is not as strong. 

Planets hemmed in by malefics or by malefic influences can counter 
this to a great extent by receiving a full aspect of a benefic. The reverse 
is true of planets hemmed in by benefics or by benefic influences. 

SEPARATIVE PLANETS 

The Sun, Satum, Rahu, Ketu, and the ruler of the Twelfth house from 
the Ascendant are separative planets. They serve to separate or remove us 
from the things in life which they influence. 

If Several of these separative planets aspect the factors representing 
the marriage partner — the Seventh house, its ruler, and the significator 
of the partner (Venus for the male, Jupiter for the female) — then separa- 


£ 7 ^MxlxrlxralcjqJ. SJ^LiuLh-A. 



Planetary Aspects and Combinations j 77 

tion is likely to occur. Divorce will happen easily and long-lasting 
relationships will be difficult. 

If they aspect the Tenth house and its ruler, there may be loss of one’s 
job or an inability to hold steady employment. If they aspect the Second 
house and its ruler, along with Mercury, one will live away from one’s 
parents as a child. If they aspect the Fourth house, its lord, the Moon and 
Mercury, one may be in danger of being separated from one’s mind (going * 
crazy). If they aspect the Fifth house, its lord and Jupiter, we may be 
separated from our children; more likely, we may be unable to have them 
in the first place, and for women in particular, surgery on the reproductive 
organs may be possible. 

We can become separated or removed from the qualities of each house 
in this way, according to their nature. If the same houses from the Moon 
sign are similarly affected, the results are more likely to occur. 

The Sun creates independence or bums things up; Saturn creates loss, 
alienation, or detachment; Rahu is dispersing and gives an attraction to 
what is foreign or distant; Ketu makes us contract and causes negativity; 
and the ruler of the TVelfth house projects its energy of loss and retreat, 
which is the nature of that house. All these factors possess a common 
separative effect. This rule is very useful in chart interpretation and should 
be memorized. 

RETROGRADE 

Planets can appear to go retrograde, or backwards, in the zodiac 
because of their different rates of orbit than the Earth. Western astrology 
usually regards retrograde as causing difficulty, delays, or obstacles. A 
retrograde Mercury, for example, is considered to cause problems in 
communication. 

According to Vedic astrology, retrograde is usually a sign of strength. 
When retrograde, for example, Jupiter is thought to be good for having 
children, even if by other factors it may be weak. 

Retrograde is sometimes considered to reverse the energy of the 
planets. Planets when exalted, lose strength when retrograde, but those 
debilitated gain strength when retrograde. 

Retr ograde has an internalizing effe ct on a planet’s energy. If Mercury 
is retrograde, the intellect will be more introverted. The individual may 
be more interested in history or occult pursuits. When afflicted, this may 
cause nervousness or speech difficulties, or just hesitancy in communica¬ 
tion. 

Retrograde planets often indicate a karmic result. They show an 
in fluence from the past T hey may be functioning to fulfill some karmicT 
debt or promise or to clear up affairs from the past. The individual will 


£ 7 1 MjcLo4xjtijjcjclL tf^iuLh.A. 



j 78 The Astrology of the Seers 

not go forward with the influences of the planet, but must take them 
backwards or inwards to consolidate or limit them. 

PLANETARY YOGAS 

Often more important than aspects in Vedic astrology are planetary 
“Yogas.” These are complex planetary combinations that consider many 
factors, including sign, house, and aspect. Yoga itself means “combina¬ 
tion.” 1 . 

Many Yogas are defined purely in terms of houses. For example, if 
the lord of the Second house of income is in the IWelfth house of loss, 
and the lord of the IWelfth house of loss is in the Second house of income, 
this is a Yoga for poverty. Many Yogas require anexchange of signs 
between the two planets but not necessarily an aspect between them. 

Many Hindu astrology books contain long lists of these Yogas, which 
astrologers often memorize. Yet even when they exist in a chart, they may 
k require other supporting factors to be really effective. It is more important 
I to understand the principle behind Yogas than to memorize specific Yogas. 
All chart interpretation, which must involve synthesizing or correlating 
indications in the chart, is like a building up of Yogas. The more the same 
result is indicated by as many different factors as possible in a chart, the 
more it is likely to be true or take effect It is the principle of “Yogic 
thinking” that we must grasp, the capacity to draw connections. Some 
1 very powerful charts have no simple or classical Yogas but have other 
combinations of planets that make for great strength. Indeed, the simpler 
Yogas ate not always as powerful as more complex formations that 
integrate the energy of a greater number of planets. 

Lunar Yogas 

Many planetary Yogas involve the Moon. The Moon is a sensitive, 
( gregarious and motherly planet; she does not like to be alone or to function 
on her own. An unassociated Moon is generally inauspicious, often even 
if she is otherwise well-placed. For example, the Moon in Cancer or Taurus 
may not be good if she has no benefic planets around her or influencing 
her. She is more inauspicious if only aspected by maleftcs, if in difficult 
houses like the Sixth, Eighth or IWelfth, or if in her fall in Scorpio or in 
unfriendly signs. 

The Moon does well in conjunction with benefic planets or with 
/ benefics in adjacent signs. It does better if Jupiter is located an angle from 
her (what is called Keshari Yoga). Aspected or hemmed in by malefics, 
particularly Saturn and Rahu, she suffers and, along with her, our mind 
and emotions suffer. Many of the same issues occur if the Ascendant is 
similarly influenced. 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. SJ^LiuLh-A. 



Planetary Aspects and Combinations 179 

Mahapurusha Yogas »' 

Among the most common and most useful of the Yogas are the 
Mahapurusha Yogas, the planetary combinations that create “great peo¬ 
ple.” These occur when planets are located in their own sign or exalted, 
and at the same time are in an angle from the Ascendant or the Moon. 
Only the five major planets are considered — not the Sun or the Moon, 
although they also benefit from such positions. Such positions serve to 
magnify the qualities of the planet involved and stamp the chart with its 
nature, character, ahd force. They may make the person of the type 
belonging to the planet People with such charts often have the physical 
characteristics of the planet. 

The Mahapurusha Yoga for Mars is called Ruchaka Yoga, the “radiant 
combination.” It endows a person with strong martial qualities like 
courage, daring, force of will, decisiveness, determination, independence, 
leadership, power of action and achievement Naturally, this Yoga is 
common in the charts of such martial type people as military leaders, 
generals, politicians, lawyers, scientists, and executives. It gives much 
success, but the Ihmasic qualities of Mars may come out, including 
tendencies towards domination and violence. ^ 

The Mahapurusha Yoga for Mercury is called Bhadra Yoga, the 
“auspicious combination." It gives strong mercurial qualities like good 
powers of speech, communication, commerce, intellect, wit, humor, 
mental sensitivity, humanism, and a balanced psychology. It is common 
in the charts of intellectuals, teachers, writers, and businessmen. It gives 
many powers and talents to the mind but may augment the Rajasic, 
agitated or commercial side of Mercury — the acquisitive mind and its 
seeking to grasp life in terms of names, forms and quantities. 

The Mahapurusha Yoga for Jupiter is called Hamsa Yoga, the “swan 
combination” (the swan being the bird of spiritual knowledge in the 
Vedas). It gives strong Jupiterian qualities, such as an ethical, moral, 
philosophical or religious nature, optimism, creativity, health, faith, pros¬ 
perity, and affluence. It is common in the charts of religious people, 
teachers, liberal social and business leaders, and some entertainers. It 
gives much joy and compassion and can give spirituality, but it may just 
serve to make us self-promoting (Jiipiterian on a superficial level). 

The Mahapurusha Yoga for Venu^ is called Malavya Yoga. It gives 
strong venusian qualities like comfort and prosperity in life, command of 
vehicles and material resources, beauty, charm, grace, and artistic talents. 
It is common in the charts of artists, beautiful women, those possessing 
wealth or social influence, and sometimes even politicians. Again, it can 


£7 'MxjxrlxrnlcjtLL tf^iuLh.A. 



1 SO The Astrology of the Seers 

give lower or higher Venus affects depending upon its placement. On a 
higher level it gives powers of devotion. 

The Mahapurusha Yoga for Saturn is called Shasha Yoga. It gives 
strong Saturn qualities like power over people, positions of authority, 
control of material resources, strong work and achievement capacity. It is 
common in the charts of political and business leaders. Since Saturn is a 
cruel planet, unless the Moon or Jupiter is strong, the individual may be 
selfish, ruthless, or destructive (Saturn in an angle is usually looked upon 
with some suspicion). Benefically placed, it gives detachment and spiri¬ 
tual insight, and the capacity for silence. 

These Yogas are prominent in the charts of famous people. However, 
they are not uncommon; many charts have at least one of them. To really 
work, they must be well-placed. Such Yogas are stronger when the planet 
is in the Tenth house, the best angle, or if they occur both from the 
Ascendant and the Moon. It also helps if the planet involved is the final 
dispositor in the chart or rules over many of the other planets. Additional 
strength can be gained if such planets combine with friendly planets or 
planets of like nature, like Mars with the Sun or Jupiter with the Moon. 
Poorly aspected, these Yogas can show the destruction of the qualities 
represented by the planet (as both the planet and its sign may be ruined). 
While giving strength and power in the outer world, these combinations 
do not always give spiritual knowledge or an ethical disposition. Strong 
malefics in Mahapurusha Yogas, like the Mars and Saturn, can create 
tyrants (see the chart of Hitler for such a Yoga for Mars). 

An important principle in planetary Yogas is that stronger affects may 
be created when a planet exchanges signs with another planet than if it is 
simply in its own sign. For example, if one chart has a Satum-Moon 
opposition, with Saturn in its own sign Capricorn and the Moon in its'own 
sign Cancer, and another has Saturn in Cancer and the Moon in Capricorn 
(both planets exchanging signs), the latter chart will tend to be stronger. 
The reason is that the power of the planets is more integrated. In this 
regard, the Raja Yoga in Napoleon’s chart is stronger with this placement 
than it would have been if the Moon and Saturn were in their own signs. 
For this reason some charts are very powerful, even without any 
Mahapurusha Yogas. * 

KUJA DOSHA 

Mars in certain houses creates difficulties for harmony in marriage 
and relationship. These are very much stressed in Hindu astrology. They 
are Mars in the First, Fourth, Seventh, Eighth and TWelfth houses. Excep¬ 
tions are for the First house if the sign is Aries, for the Fourth house if it 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. SJ^LiuLh-A. 



Planetary Aspects and Combinations 181 

is Scorpio, for the Seventh if it is Capricorn or Pisces, for the Eighth if it 
is Cancer, and for the TWelfth if if is Sagittarius. 

Such a placement of Mars shows potential conflict in relationship or 
difficulties in the life of the spouse. A person with such a planetary 
placement should generally only marry another person with a similar 
placement. Mars in the Seventh appears to be the most difficult of these 
(though it often gives success in the social world), and Mars in the First 
or Eighth is often difficult as well. 

Mars in the First can make us aggressive or contentious in our 
behavior. Mars in the Seventh can cause conflict in relationship and the 
seeking to dominate. Mars in the Eighth may give a strong sexual drive 
or indicate the early death of the partner. Mars in the Fourth may show an 
aggressive subconscious or emotional nature. Mars in the TWelfth may 
indicate hidden passion or the wasting away of our vital energies. Hence, 
each of these placements has a different meaning. A strong Mars in the, 
chart of a woman is regarded as difficult for marriage from the Hindu ) 
point of view, as it may make her dominate her husband and perhaps / 
indicate his ill health or even death in extreme cases. 

Such placements should not be interpreted simplistically since many 
charts have them to at least some degree. Again, they should be reinforced 
by other negative influences to the Seventh house, its lord, and the 
marriage significator. Moreover, they reflect a more passive role for 
women in society; this may not be so applicable in the modem world / 
where the woman has to work and may therefore need a stronger Mars, ' 
which most of these positions gives. In this regard, Kuja Dosha for a 
woman may only require that she has a more independent type marriage, 
possibly her own career, and perhaps no children. If the factors represent¬ 
ing relationship are afflicted by other malefics (like the Sun, Saturn, Rahu 
and Ketu), a person may have difficulties in relationship even without 
Kuja Dosha. 

SHADBAIA 

Planetary Power Ratios 

Shadbala is an elaborate system of computation to aid in determining 
planetary strengths and weaknesses. It is perhaps the most sophisticated 
and detailed of such astrological systems and probably the most reliable. 
While Shadbala is not necessary to give an accurate astrological reading 
it is helpful information to have. As the calculations are very complex and 
require much skill and time to do oneself, a computer program for it is 
essential. For reason of its complexity, we will only outline it here. 


£7 'MxjxrlxrnlcjtLL tf^iuLh.A. 



182 The Astrology of the Seers 

A planet strong in Shadbala will have power in the chart, but for good 
or ill, depending upon its nature. One weak in Shadbala will be able to do 
little and may cause disease or difficulties. Along with Shadbala, consid¬ 
eration must still be given to signs, houses, aspects and Yogas. Shadbala 
is an enhancement, not a substitute for a comprehensive examination of 
| a chart. Shadbala tells us if a planet is likely to have enough strength to 
f fulfill its role in the chart. The chart tells us what that role may be and if 
it is likely to be ordinary or extraordinary. 

FACTORS OF SHADBALA 

The six factors of Shadbala are: 1) Positional Strength (Sthana Bala), 
2) Directional Strength (Dig Bala), 3) Temporal Strength (Kala Bala), 4) 
Motional Strength (Chesta Bala), S) Natural Strength (Naisargika Bala), 
and 6) Aspectual Strength (Drik Bala). 

1. Positional Strength 

This consists of five factors. These are: 1) Exaltation Strength (Ucha 
Bala), how close a planet is from its point of exaltation, 2) Divisional 
Strength (Saptavargaja Bala), its residential strength in the seven har¬ 
monic charts, 3) Odd-Even Sign Strength (Ojayugmarasyamsa Bala), 4) 
Quadrant Strength (Kendra Bala), its strength in terms of house position, 
and 5) Decanate Strength (Drekkana Bala), its strength in terms of 
decanate location. 

2. Directional Strength 

This is one of the main factors of planetary strength and weakness 
and helps us understand the power of the planets in the houses; hence, we 
explain it below. 

Mercury and Jupiter are strong in the east, (the Ascendant or First 
house). The Sun and Mars are strong in the south (the Tenth house or 
Midheaven). The Moon and Venus are strong in the north (the Fourth 
house or Nadir). Saturn becomes strong in the west (the Seventh house or 
Descendant). The same planets become weak in the opposite house or 
direction. 

This factor should not be given too much weight by itself. Generally, 
any of these planets will do better in Quadrants than other houses, but this 
scheme shows us which Quadrants they prefer. 

3. Temporal Strength 

This is a combination of nine factors based upon the time of birth in 
hours, days, months, years, and so on, and the strength of planets at these 
times or as ruling them. These are: 1) Day-Night Strength (Nathonnatha 


Ift-dcrlxru. KiaZ SJ^LiuLh-A. 



Planetary Aspects and Combinations 1 83 

Bala), 2) Monthly Strength (Paksha Bala), 3) Four Hour Strength 
(THbanga Bala), 4) Lord of the Year Strength (Abdadhipati Bala), 5) Lord 
of the Month Strength (Masadhipati Bala), 6) Lord the Day Strength 
(Varadhipati Bala), 7) Lord of the Hour Strength (Hora Bala), 8) Declina- 
tional Strength (Ayana Bala), and 9) Planetary War Strength (Yuddha 
Bala). 

4. Motional Strength 

This is the most complicated of the Shadbala and relates to the motion 
of the planets around the Sun, including their movement of retrogression. 

5. Natural Strength 

This is the same for all charts. The Sun is the strongest planet, then 
the Moon, Venus, Jupiter, Mercury, Mars, and Saturn, in line with their 
apparent brightness as seen from the Earth. 

6. Aspectual Strength 

This is according to the determination of the arc of aspect as according 
to the extended rules of determining aspects. It is not meant to substitute 
for calculating aspects in the chart, nor should it be taken as a reliable 
measure of their influence. 


^7#Lt/<rZtra.Zc.a/ WfLUjthS. 



Jupiter 





“Dressed in yellow, with a yellow body, 
who has four arms, the teacher of the 
Gods, peaceful in nature, whose vehicle is 
an elephant, who carries a rosary, a water 
pot and. a staff in his hands, with a yellow 
sapphire crest jewel on his head, making 
the gesture that gives boons, may Divine 
Jupiter ever grant us his grace. ” 

£7 HjdjtrlxraixixLL ( Ufvu. 1 tJ±A. 




5 - 

_ HARMONIC CHARTS _ 

PATTERNS OF ASTROLOGICAL INTRICACY 

In Vedic astrology a minimum of two charts is done, the basic birth 
chart (Rashi Chakra) and the harmonic ninth (Navamsha). Frequently six, 
and often as many as sixteen, such charts may be considered. These 
harmonic charts provide more detail and specificity in the delineation of 
planetary influences. 

Some Western astrologers have begun to use harmonic charts, based 
upon the Hindu model; yet they calculate these harmonic charts in what 
is sometimes a different manner than the Vedic one. They simply multiply 
the longitude of the planet. For a harmonic fifth of a planet, for example, 
they multiply the longitude of the planet by five. Hence, if a planet is at 
20° Taurus, its zodiacal longitude is 50°; that is, it is 50° from the 
beginning of the zodiac at 0° Aries. Multiplying this by five, we get 250° 
or 10° Sagittarius as its harmonic fifth position. 

The Vedic system considers harmonic placement by sign only, not by 
degrees. Some of these, like the harmonic thirtieth, are not arrived at by 
simply multiplying the longitude of the planet. 

CALCULATION OF HARMONIC CHARTS 

As the calculation of these charts is time consuming, it is also best to 
do it by computer. The following are the general rules should you wish 
to do it yourself. It is helpful to know the principles behind the calculation 
of these charts. 

Harmonic Second (Hora) 

The Hora chart is simple as it is the most basic of the harmonic charts. 
The first Vz of odd signs like Aries is ruled by the Sun, the second 1/2 by 
the Moon. Conversely, the first Vz of even signs, like Taurus, is ruled by 
the Moon; the second Vz, by the Sun. 

For example, if Mars is located in 20° Virgo, as it is in the second half 
of an even sign, it would be in the Hora of the Sun. Hence, the Hora chart 
only gives solar or lunar status of planets and does not place them in signs 
like the other harmonic charts. 


£ 7 1 MjcLo4xjtijjcjclL tf^iuLh.A. 




I g6 The Astrology of the Seers 

Harmonic Third (Drekkana or Decanate) 

In this harmonic the first V 3 or ten degrees 00° 00'-10° 00' of any sign 
is ruled by itself. The middle V 3 ,10° 00'-20° 00', is ruled by the subsequent 
sign of the same element. The last V 3 ,20° 00'-30° 00', is ruled by the final 
sigh of the same element. 

For example, the first V 3 of Sagittarius is in the harmonic third of 
Sagittarius, the second 1/3 in the harmonic third of Aries, and the last V 3 
in the harmonic third of Leo. Hence, if Saturn is located in a birth chart 
at 15° 20' Sagittarius, it would be in the harmonic third of Aries. 

Western astrology has long used the decanate but usually calculates 
it differently. It makes the first third of a sign that of the Cardinal sign of 
the element, the second that of the Fixed sign and the last that of the 
Mutable sign. Hence, it sees the first third of Sagittarius as Aries, the 
second as Leo and the third as Sagittarius. 


Harmonic Fourth (Chaturtamsha) 

Each sign is divided into four equal parts. The first 1/4 (00° 00'-07° 
30') is the same as the sign itself. The second V 4 (7° 30'-15° 00') is under 
the next sign of the same Quality. The third V 4 (15° 00'-22° 30') follows 
the following sign of the same Quality, and the last V 4 (22° 30'-30° 00' 
is of the final sign of the same Quality. 

For example, the first V 4 of Aries is Aries, the second is Cancer, the 
third is Libra, and the last is Capricorn. Hence, if Venus is located at 20° 
15' Aries, it would be in the third harmonic fourth, that of Libra, the third 
Cardinal sign from Aries. 


Harmonic Seventh (Saptamsha) 

Each sign is divided into seven equal parts of 04° 17' 09". The first 
1/7 of odd signs is governed by the sign itself, with the rest following the 
signs in order through the zodiac. For even signs, the first V 7 corresponds 
to the sign seventh from it, and the rest follow in order from that. 

Hence, the first seventh of Aries (an odd sign) is Aries; the second, 
Taurus; the third, Gemini; and so on to Libra. The first seventh of Taurus 
(an even sign) would be Scorpio, the sign seventh from it. The second 
seventh division would be Sagittarius; the third, Capricorn; and so on to 
Taurus as its last seventh. In this way we are merely going through the 
signs in order. 


£7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. ( EJU-il£IlA. 



Harmonic Charts: Patterns of Astrological Intricacy ] 87 

The following are the harmonic V 7 divisions of the sign: 

1. 00° 00' 00" to 04° 17' 09" 

2. 04° 17' 09" to 08° 34' 17" 

3. 08° 34' 17" to 12° 51'26" 

4. 12° 51'26" to 17° 08'34" 

5. 17° 08'34" to 21° 25'43" 

6 . 21° 25'43" to 25° 42'52" 

7. 25° 42'52" to 30° 00'00" 

Thus if the Moon is located at 25° 10' Taurus, it would be in the sixth 
division, which would be Aries (sixth from Scorpio). 

Harmonic Ninth (Navamsha) 

Each sign is divided into nine equal parts of 3° 20'. The first V 9 of a 
sign is governed by the Cardinal sign of that element, followed by the rest 
of the signs from it in order through the zodiac. 

In this way the first 1/9 bf Gemini (Mutable air) is Libra (cardinal air), 
the second is Scorpio, the third is Sagittarius, and so on, all the way to 
Gemini at the end as the last ninth of its own sign. 

1. 00° 00' to 03° 20' 

2. 03° 20’ to 06° 40' 

3. 06° 40' to 10° 00' 

4. 10° 00' to 13° 20' 

5. 13° 20' to 16° 40' 

6 . 16° 40' to 20° 00' 

7. 20° 00' to 23° 20' 

8 . 23° 20' to 26° 40' 

9. 26° 40' to 30° 00' 

For example, if Jupiter is at 22° 40' Scorpio, it is in the seventh 
Navamsha. As Scorpio is a Fixed water sign, its first V 9 would be Cardinal 
water or Cancer, and its seventh would be Capricorn. This places Jupiter 
in Capricorn in the Navamsha. 

Harmonic Tenth (Dashamsha) 

Here each sign is divided into ten equal portions of 3° each. 

The first l/jo of Aries is Aries; the first V 10 of Taurus is Capricorn; that 
of Gemini is Gemini; that of Cancer is Pisces; that of Leo is Leo; that of 
Virgo is Taurus; that of Libra is Libra; that of Scorpio is Cancer; that of 
Sagittarius is Sagittarius; that of Capricorn is Virgo; that of Aquarius is 
Aquarius; and that of Pisces is Scorpio. 


£7 'MxjxrlxrnlcjtLL tf^iuLh.A. 



jS8 The Astrology of the Seers , 

Hence, the rale is that the first Vio of odd signs is itself, that of even 
signs is of the sign ninth from them. Again, we are just counting the signs 
off in order from the first Vjo of Aries as Aries. 

1. 00° 00' to 03° 00' 

2. 03° 00' to 06° 00' 

3. 06° 00' to 09° 00' 

4. 09° 00' to 12° 00' 

5. 12° 00' to 15° 00' 

6 . 15° 00' to 18° 00' 

7. 18° 00' to 21° 00' 

8 . 21° 00' to 24° 00* 

9. 24° 00' to 27° 00' 

10. 27° 00' to 30° 00' 

If the Sun is in 08° 30' Gemini, for example, it would be in the third 
Dashamsha, which would be Leo. 


Harmonic Twelfth (Dwadashamsha) 

Each sign is divided into equal sections of 2° 30'. The first Vi 2 of each 
sign is the same as the sign itself, with the rest counted off in order through 
the zodiac. 

1. 00° 00' to 02° 30' 

2. 02° 30' to 05° 00' 

3. 05° 00' to 07° 30' 

4. 07° 30' to 10° OOe 

5. 10° 00' to 12° 30' 

6 . 12° 30' to 15° 00' 

7. 15° 00' to 17° 30' 

8 . 17° 30' to 20° 00' 

9. 20° 00' to 22° 30' 

10. 22° 30' to 25° 00' 

11. 25° 00' to 27° 30' 

12. 27° 30* to 30° 00' 

If Mercury is in 09° 35' of Virgo, for example, it would be in the 
fourth Dwadashamsha or Sagittarius. 

Harmonic Sixteenth (Shodashamsha) 

Each sign is divided into sixteen equal parts of 1° 52' 30". The first 
t/i6 of all Cardinal signs begins with Aries; that of all Fixed signs begins 
with Leo; that of all Mutable signs, with Sagittarius; and the rest are 
counted off in order from these. 


£7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. SJ^LiuLh-A. 



Harmonic Charts: Patterns of Astrological Intricacy 189 

Harmonic Twentieth (Vimshamsha) 

Each sign is divided into twenty equal parts of 1° 30'. The first V 2 o of 
all Cardinal signs begins with Aries; of all Fixed signs, Sagittarius; and 
of all Mutable signs, Leo; and the rest are counted off in order from these. 

Harmonic Twenty-fourth (Siddhamsha) 

Each sign is divided off into twenty-four equal parts of 1° 15'. All 
odd signs begin with Leo and all even signs with Cancer, with the rest 
counted off from these. 

Harmonic Twenty-seventh (Bhamsha) 

Each sign is divided into twenty-seven equal parts of 1° 06' 40". All 
fiery signs begin with Aries, all earthly with Cancer, all airy with Libra 
and all watery with Capricorn. Again, the rest are counted off in order 
from these. 

Harmonic Thirtieth (Trimshamsha) 

This chart is done in a peculiar way, the explanation for which I have 
not seen. For odd signs the first five degrees, 00° 00'-05° 00', corresponds 
to Aries; the next five, 05° 00'-10° 00', to Aquarius; the next eight, 10° 
00'-18° 00', to Sagittarius; the next seven, 18° 00'-25° 00', to Gemini; 
and the last five, 25° 00'-30° 00', to Libra. 

For even signs, the first five degrees, 00° 00'-05° 00', relate to Taurus; 
the next seven, 05° 00'-12° 00', to Virgo; the next eight, 12° 00'-20° 00', 
to Pisces; the next five, 20° 00'-25" 00', to Capricorn; and the last five, 
25° 00'-30° 00', to Scorpio. 

There are no harmonic thirtieth positions in Cancer or Leo. 

Harmonic Fortieth (Chaturvimshamsha) 

Each sign is divided into forty equal parts of 45' each. All odd signs 
begin with Aries and all even signs begin with Libra, with the rest counted 
off in order from these. 

Harmonic Forty-fifth (Akshavedamsha) 

Each sign is divided into forty-five equal parts of 40'. All Cardinal 
signs begin with Aries; all Fixed signs, with Leo; and all Mutable signs, 
with Sagittarius, with the rest counted off in order from these. 

Harmonic Sixtieth (Shashtiamsha) 

Each sign is divided into sixty equal parts of 30'. Each sign starts with 
itself and the other divisions are counted off in order of the zodiac. 


^HxixrlxralcjtMJ. tf^iuLh.A. 



190 


The Astrology of the Seers 

These sixteen harmonic charts (which includes the birth chart or Rashi 
Chakra) are called Shodashavarga, “the group of sixteen.” Shadvarga, 
“the group of six,” consists of the birth chart, the harmonic second, third, 
ninth, twelfth, and thirtieth. When the harmonic seventh is added to these 
it becomes the Saptavarga or “the group of seven.” Adding the harmonic 
tenth, sixteenth, and sixtieth, we get Dashavarga, “the group of ten.” 

MEANING AND USAGE OF HARMONIC CHARTS 

Harmonic charts are commonly used for determining planetary 
strengths. Planets gain strength as they are located in the signs of their 
exaltation, own signs, or signs of friends, and lose strength in the signs of 
their enemies, or fall. 

We can examine the signs in which each planet is located in each of 
the harmonic charts. We judge these by the same rules of planetary 
friendship and enmity as used in the basic birth chart. 

Harmonic charts have additional specific usages and focus on partic¬ 
ular areas of life — 

Harmonic First 

This is the same as the basic birth chart (Rashi Chakra), relative to 
which all harmonic charts are judged. What is present in the birth chart 
may be heightened or diminished by the influence of the harmonic charts 
but cannot be overridden by them. The harmonic charts serve to fine tune 
the meanings in the birth chart but do not serve to radically change them. 
The birth chart always determines the field in which they operate and 
should be visualized behind them. The harmonic charts are thus like a 
series of concentric circles with the birth chart as the outside circle. The 
subtler harmonic charts are contained within the fields of the larger 
harmonics. 

Harmonic Second 

As indicating the Sun and Moon, the second harmonic or Hora chart 
shows the nature of the individual and power of the planets relative to 
solar and lunar, yang and yin, active and passive, male and female, 
individual and social, mental and emotional energies. 

Masculine planets, like the Sun, Mars, and Jupiter are stronger in the 
Hora of the Sun. Those of feminine nature, like the Moon, Venus, and 
Saturn are stronger in the Hora of the Moon. Mutable Mercury does well 
either way, but which is better depends upon the planets whose influence 
it is under. 

Planets in the solar division tend to make the individual independent, 
active, energetic, assertive, willful, confident, and self-reliant; but in 


£7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. ( EJU-il£IlA. 



Harmonic Charts: Patterns of Astrological Intricacy 19 ] 

excess they cause one to be selfish, harsh, unfeeling, manipulative or 
controlling. Planets in the lunar division tend to make the person sensitive, 
caring, nurturing, receptive, and gentle; but in excess they can render one 
dependent, passive, unmotivated, overly emotional, sentimental, or hy¬ 
persensitive. 

Solar division planets give more reliance on one’s inner power and 
give initiative. Lunar division planets give more reliance on social influ¬ 
ences, family, and the past. Not enough planets in solar divisions will 
make an individual unable to gain recognition for what he' does. Not 
enough in lunar divisions will create a lack of understanding and taking 
undeserved recognition. 

The Hora chart is often given a Second house influence and is thereby ^ 
thought to relate to wealth. When the ruler of the Second is in its/ 
appropriate Hora, it gives better results for all the affairs of the second] 
house. 

Hora means “hour.” As each sign governs two hours of the day (that 
being the time it takes to cross the Ascendant) each Hora governs about 
one hour. 

Harmonic Third 

The harmonic third or decanate corresponds in meaning to the Third' 
house. It governs brothers, sisters, friends, and alliances. It shows our 
capacity to work in a group or in association to achieve a particular goal. 

It indicates our energy, curiosity, courage, passion, and prowess. 

The position of the lord of the Third in the birth chart should ) 
particularly be examined in the harmonic third, as well as Mars, the natural / 
indicator of the Third house. 

The harmonic third is also useful for fine tuning Sun, Moon, and 
Ascendant positions. For example, if Aquarius is the Ascendant, and 
Gemini is the decanate, the communicative and intellectual power of 
Gemini will come out in the humanitarian influence of Aquarius. When 
an individual has many planets located in the same sign, we can often 
discriminate their action by their decanate positions. 

Harmonic Fourth 

The harmonic fourth, like the Fourth house, is said traditionally to 
deal with general well-being in life, emotion, home and happiness. If 
benefic planets like Jupiter and Venus, or the rulers of benefic houses, are 
strong in this chart, then well-being is enhanced. 

The positions of the Moon, Mercury, and the lord of the Fourth house 
should be examined relative to this chart and can be taken as an indication 
of our emotional contentment and psychological happiness. 


£7 'MxjxrlxrnlcjtLL tf^iuLh.A. 



192 


The Astrology of the Seers 


Harmonic Seventh 

The harmonic seventh is said to relate to children and grandchildren. 
Again, this is not to be taken literally; it refers to the creative projections 
of the individual in general, which for the majority of us relates to 
procreation. In this chart we see our creative capacities and the extent to 
which they can be concretely realized or recognized. 

I also like to judge Seventh house and relationship issues from this 
chart. The position of the lord of the Seventh and the significator of the 
Seventh (Venus for men and Jupiter for women) in this harmonic can be 
important. 

Harmonic Ninth 

■ The harmonic ninth, or Navamsha, is the main harmonic division and 
like the birth chart or harmonic first, can be used for reading all the 
domains of life. It is said to traditionally refer to marriageand the partner. 
It dea ls with relationship in general and what we need to complement 
ourselves. Mainly, it refers to our ability to share our inner or spiritual 
values in relationship. In c omparing the Navamsha charts of couples, w e 
can get a better idea as to spiritual or dharmic compatibility . 

The most important indications of the harmonic ninth are like that of 
the Ninth house. It shows our dharma, our inner values, the spiritual or 
religious motivation we may have. It reflects more the nature of our soul 
and its aspirations, as the birth chart reflects more the nature of our 
particular incarnation and the ego. As showing the forces that move us on 
an inner level, it is often a goodjndex of our future j ife or the evolution 
of oursoul. In this regard, it is often more reflective of who we really are 
and what our soul is aiming to achieve. 

A strong Navamsha but a weak birth chart tend to show a strong soul 
choosing a difficult incarnation. A weak Navamsha but a strong birth chart 
tend to show a strong personality but a weak soul. 

The positions in the Navamsha of J upjter, th e lord of the Ninth house, 
and the Atmakaraka or significator of the Self, are of particular impor¬ 
tance. All the planetary significators (Karakas) can be judged from this 
chart and are most specific to it. If a planet is strong in both the birth and 
ninth charts, it will give very good results. A planet in its own sign or 
exalted in the birth chart, but in its fall in the Navamsha, is weakened. 

A planet in the same sign in both the birth chart and Navamsha is 
regarded as strong. It is called Vargottama, which literally means “in the 
best subdivision.” This gives it greater strength, but for good or ill. 


£7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. SJ^LiuLh-A. 





Harmonic Charts: Patterns of Astrological Intricacy 193 

Harmonic Tenth 

The harmonic tenth is much like the Ifenth 1 house in meaning. It should 
be examined along with it and the Sun , Mercury, Jupiter, and the lord of 
th e Ifen th. It indicates power, position, achievement, status, and skillTlf 
the lord of the Ifenth is strong here, it indicates that the individual will 
accomplish great actions or achieve their goals in life. It shows the impact 
of the individual upon the world at large and their position in it. It is 
important in the delineation of vocation and career. It shows our karmic 
impact upon life. 

Harmonic Twelfth 

This is the chart of fate or destiny, of past karma. It is said traditionally 
to indicate the parents; but it stands for past karma and conditioning 
generally (including hereditary factors) and shows past life influences, i/ 
is often used as an index of the last life and can be seen as something like 
the birth chart of the last incarnation. It indicates what the soul brings with 
it into this life and what can be discovered by a deeper probing into our 
psyche. It often shows us the karmic reason for our particular character 
and destiny in life. 

We can use the birth chart for the present life, the ninth harmonic for ' 
the future life, and the twelfth harmonic for the past life. In this way we 
can read the evolution of the soul. ) 

The meanings of the twelfth harmonic are much like the Twelfth 
house, showing the past, karma, the subconscious and the more hidden 
layers of the mind, secret motivations, compulsions, obsessions, and so 
on. The positions of the Moon, Saturn, and the lord of the Twelfth are 1 
important here. 

Harmonic Sixteenth 

Sixteen is four times four; hence, this chart traditionally refers to the 
affairs of the Fourth house — happiness, home, property and the acquisi¬ 
tion of vehicles. It is used like the fourth harmonic, and along with it shows 
the deeper wishes and desires of the soul, whereas the fourth harmonic 
often has a more outward value. If the Fourth house lord is strong in this 
chart, then the affairs of the Fourth house will be strengthened. This chart 
is also important in psychology, relating to mental stability and emotional 
contentment. 

Harmonic Twentieth / 

This is said traditionally to be the chart of Upasana or “devotional 
meditation.” It indicates the religious development of the soul and our 


£7 'MxjxrlxrnlcjtLL tf^iuLh.A. 



194 


The Astrology of the Seers 

capacity for the Yoga of devotion (Bhakti Yoga). It often shows our 
religious tendencies from past lives and the religions we have associated 
with. It shows the Shakti, the goddess-energy, at work in our lives and 
thereby indicates our capacity to surrender to the Divine will. It helps 
indicate the form of the Divine that we are inclined to worship (Ishta 
Devata). It can also show creative and artistic capacity. 

Twenty is five times four. Many of the meanings of this house are 
much like the Fifth house; and the factors pertaining to the Fifth house, 
like Jupiter and its lord, should be examined here. It shows the joy, love 
and creativity of the soul. 

Harmonic Twenty-fourth u 

This is said traditionally to be the chart of mental or meditational 
achievements, including the siddhis or psychic powers. In the higher 
sense, this is the chart of spiritual knowledge and shows the spiritual 
development of the soul from past lives. It shows our capacity for, and 
development of, the Yoga of knowledge (Jnana Yoga). It is the most 
important hannonic chart for ascertainment of spiritual nature and the 
potential for enlightenment. Strong planets here have enhanced psychic 
and spiritual capacities for greater perception, skill, and awareness. 

On a general level, this chart indicates the educational career of the 
individual. Whether the knowledge gained will be spiritual or material 
depends much upon the nature of the character from the birth chart. 

The position of the Ninth house lord. Mercury, and Jupiter is impor¬ 
tant here, as well as the Atmakaraka. Between the twentieth and twenty- 
fourth harmonics, we can understand many of the hidden secrets of our 
spiritual unfoldment. 

Harmonic Twenty-seventh 

This chart measures the strength or weakness of the planets relative 
to the twenty seven lunar constellations (Nakshatra) in which they dwell. 
As such it is a further fine tuning of the Navamsha chart (which itself 
measures V 4 of a Nakshatra). This chart indicates particular strengths and 
weaknesses of the Moon. It is also important for planeta ry signifi cators. 

Harmonic Thirtieth 

This is the traditional chart of misfortune, injury, enmity, and disease. 
It is an important harmonic chart for discovering the dangers we need to 
avoid in life. Major health difficulties or potential injuries can be seen in 
malefic placement of planets here. 

The power of the lords of the Third, Sixth, Eighth and Eleventh houses 
can be gauged here. Also any planets located in the Sixth, Eighth, or 


£7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. ( EJU-il£IlA. 



Harmonic Charts: Patterns of Astrological Intricacy 195 

IVelfth houses in the birth chart should be examined here. If they are 
poorly placed in this chart, they are much more likely to cause problems. 

Harmonic Fortieth 

This chart deals with special auspicious and inauspicious effects of 
planets, sometimes said to be good and bad habits, particularly the 
proclivities of the emotional and psychological nature. As four times ten, 
it relates to the affairs of the Fourth house. 

Harmonic Forty-fifth 

This helps fine tune all general indications, though it is often said to 
relate to the moral or ethical nature of the individual. As nine times five, 
it has the Fifth and Ninth house indications of good or bad karma. It 
indicates which of the three deities, Brahma, Vishnu or Shiva — the 
creator, preserver or destroyer — that the nature of the individual most 
reflects. 

Harmonic Sixtieth 

This is the most subtle of the harmonic charts and is often used in the 
case of twins. It is used for the subtlest fine-tuning of planetary effects 
and has special deities governing each subdivision. 

*** 

These charts have different degrees of importance. Most important 
are the harmonic ninth, third, twelfth, twentieth, twenty-fourth, twenty- 
seventh and thirtieth. 

The position of the Ascendant in these charts is the most specific 
factor; but unless the birth time is highly accurate, it cannot be relied upon 
in the subtle subdivisions. For example, an error of five minutes in the 
time of birth would change the Ascendant in harmonics more subtle than ^ 
the twelfth. For this reason, we often rely more upon the position of the > 
Moon and the Atmakaraka in these subtle charts. These are turned into/ 
the Ascendant, and houses are read from its placement. 

As the distant planets move slowly, all their subtle subdivisions can 
be accurately calculated. They are often more revealing than their sign 
placements in the birth chart. The positions of Jupiter and Saturn in the 
subtler divisions are important for indicating general fortune or misfor¬ 
tune 


^HxixrlxralcjtMJ. tf^iuLh.A. 



£7 'HxixrlxrajjcjtLL ( EJhju£JlA. 



PLANETARY PERIODS: DETERMINING 
PLANETARY INFLUENCES THROUGH TIME 


The planetary periods of Vedic astrology provide an easy and com¬ 
prehensive system for judging the effects of planets throughout the 
development of our lives. They can be used in place of more cumbersome 
systems of progressions and transits, or these can be added to them for 
fine-tuning. The planetary periods are perhaps the most accurate system 
for showing how the planets distribute their effects through time and the 
different stages of our lives. A Vedic chart is worth having done for them 
alone; a reading is not complete without them. We should all know the 
periods we are in and contemplate the course of our lives according to 
how our periods change. 

Vedic astrology always considers planetary periods in any reading. It 
does not require an additional chart or even transits to see this, but is in 
evidence in the birth chart itself and the positions within it. The Vedic 
chart gives us a list of planetary periods that provides an overview of the 
development of planetary forces through our entire life. These periods are 
very helpful for examining our life and for planning long-term goals. They 
can show us major transitions in our life and character. Most of us undergo 
major changes periodically. Some of us change personalities in a dramatic 
way at certain times. The planetary periods provide the key to these events. 
Some periods may be so different from each other that the whole nature 
of the destiny, health, or personality may change with them. 

A few different systems are used for determining the planetary 
periods. The most common is Vimshottari Dasha or “the 120 year cycle,” 
which will be examined here. In it each of the seven major planets plus 
the two Lunar Nodes are given periods of from 6 to 20 years. They are in 
cyclical order: the Sun — 6 years, the Moon — 10 years, Mars 7 years, 
Rahu 18 — years, Jupiter 16 — years, Saturn 19 — years. Mercury 17 — 
years, Ketu — 7 years, and Venus — 20 years. The order is the same as 
that of the rulership of the lunar constellations (Nakshatras), as the periods 
are based upon them. 

No specific rationale is given for these amounts. We notice that the 
period of Rahu, a shadow planet, is much longer than that of major planets 
like the Sun and Moon. In order, of length the periods are the Sun 6, Ketu 


£ 7 1 MjcLo4xjtijjcjclL SI^lujLIlA. 


198 The Astrology of the Seers 

7, Mars 7, the Moon 10, Jupiter 16, Mercury 17, Rahu 18, Saturn 19, and 
Venus 20. We see something of an order here (16,17,18,19 & 20 equalling 
90, and 6, 7, 7 & 10 equalling 30), though it would be more logical if 
Mars were 8 years in its period and the Moon 9. Still, even though we 
can’t quite make sense of it, the system works quite well. 

HOW TO DETERMINE PLANETARY PERIODS 

We must determine the planet ruling the major period (Maha Dasha) 
and then that ruling the minor period (Bhukti Dasha) within it. The minor 
period we can divide into smaller increments if we wish. 

First, find the lunar constellation, Nakshatra (see table on p. 133), in 
which the Moon is located at birth. For example, if it is 12° 26' Virgo, 
then its lunar constellation will be “Hasta.” Look to the table and see what 
planet rules it. This is the Moon. Hence, the major planetary period at birth 
would be that of the Moon. 

Now determine how many more degrees and minutes it has to travel 
to complete the course of this constellation. Each constellation is 13° 20' 
or 800 minutes in length. In this case, Hasta begins at 10° 00' Virgo. 
Therefore, it has already travelled through 2° 26' of it and 10° 54' remain 
in the constellation (654 minutes). Divide this remainder by 800 and the 
result will show you what percentage of the period remains to be traversed 
(in this case .8175). 

Next, look to the table and see the duration of the period of the ruling 
planet. In our example, Hasta is ruled by the Moon, whose period is 10 
years. Multiply the duration of the planetary period by the percentage of 
the constellation yet to be travelled (here 10 years by .8175 or 8.175 years). 
Multiply the remainder minus the years times twelve to get the months 
(. 175* 12 or 2.1 months). Finally, multiply the month remainder by 30 for 
the days (.1x30 or 3 days). This gives the total yet to be transpired in the 
planetary period from the moment of birth (here 8 years, 2 months, 3 days). 

If the date of birth is October 10, 1952, for example, we add the 
remainder of 8 years 2 months and 3 days to it. The Moon’s period would 
begin at birth and end on December 13, 1960. 

All the other planetary periods will begin on the month and day that 
the first planetary period ends. In our case, the period of Mars of seven 
years would begin 12/13/1960. It would be followed by Rahu on 
12/13/1967, and so on throughout the cycle of planetary periods. Hence, 
the day our first planetary period ends is an important date in the year for 
us, as it marks the time when all our other major planetary periods will 
start in different years. (It should be noted that this method of calculation 
is approximate. A computer version with detailed year to month and 
month to day tables will give a figure that may vary a few days and will 


£7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. SJ^LiuLh-A. 



Planetary Periods: Planetary Influences Through Time 199 

be more accurate. However, the periods are not that rigidly divided from 
each other and so this difference is seldom significant.) 

TABLE OF PLANETARY PERIODS 
Major and Minor (Dashas and Bhuktis) 

Minor periods (Bhuktis) listed as years, months, and days. 

1. Sun Major Period (Maha Dasha) 2. Moon Major Period (Maha Dasha) 
6 years 10 years 


Sun 

0 

3 

18 

Moon 

0 

10 

0 

Moon 

0 

6 

0 

Mars 

0 

7 

0 

Mars 

0 

4 

6 

Rahu 

1 

6 

0 

Rahu 

0 

10 

24 

Jupiter 

1 

4 

0 

Jupiter 

0 

9 

18 

Saturn 

1 

7 

0 

Saturn 

0 

11 

12 

Mercury 

1 

5 

0 

Mercury 

0 

10 

6 

Ketu 

0 

7 

0 

Ketu 

0 

4 

6 

Venus 

1 

8 

0 

Venus 

1 

0 

0 

Sun 

0 

6 

0 

Mars Major Period 
17 years 

Mars 0 4 

27 

4. Rahu Major Period 
18 years 

Rahu 2 8 

12 

Rahu 

1 

0 

18 

Jupiter 

2 

4 

24 

Jupiter 

0 

11 

6 

Saturn 

2 

10 

6 

Saturn 

1 

1 

9 

Mercury 

2 

6 

18 

Mercury 

0 

11 

27 

Ketu 

1 

0 

18 

Ketu 

0 

4 

27 

Venus 

3 

0 

0 

Venus 

1 

2 

0 

Sun 

0 

10 

24 

Sun 

0 

4 

6 

Moon 

1 

6 

0 

Moon 

0 

7 

0 

Mars 

1 

0 

18 

Jupiter Major Period 

6. Saturn Major Period 

16 years 

Jupiter 

2 

1 

18 

19 years 

Saturn 

3 

0 

3 

Saturn 

2 

6 

12 

Mercury 

2 

8 

9 

Mercury 

2 

3 

6 

Ketu 

1 

1 

9 

Ketu 

0 

11 

6 

Venus 

3 

2 

0 

Venus 

2 

8 

0 

Sun 

0 

11 

12 

Sun 

0 

9 

18 

Moon 

1 

7 

0 

Moon 

1 

4 

0 

Mars 

1 

1 

9 

Mars 

0 

11 

6 

Rahu 

2 

10 

6 

Rahu 

2 

4 

24 

Jupiter 

2 

6 

12 


£7 'MxjxrlxrnlcjtLL tf^iuLh.A. 



200 


The Astrology of the Seers 


7. Mercury Major Period 8. Ketu Major Period 


17 years 




7 years 




Mercury 

2 

4 

27 

Ketu 

0 

4 

27 

Ketu 

0 

11 

27 

Venus 

1 

2 

0 

Venus 

2 

10 

0 

Sun 

0 

4 

6 

Sun 

0 

10 

6 

Moon 

0 

7 

0 

Moon 

1 

5 

0 

Mars 

0 

4 

27 

Mars 

0 

11 

27 

Rahu 

1 

0 

18 

Rahu 

2 

6 

18 

Jupiter 

0 

Hr 

16 

Jupiter 

2 

3 

6 

Saturn 

1 

1 

9 

Saturn 

2 

8 

9 

Mercury 

0 

11 

27 

Venus Major Period 





20 years 








Venus 

3 

4 

0 





Sun 

1 

0 

0 





Moon 

1 

8 

0 





Mars 

1 

2 

0 





Rahu 

3 

0 

0 





Jupiter 

2 

8 

0 





Saturn 

3 

2 

0 



- 


Mercury 

2 

10 

0 





Ketu 

1 

2 

0 






HOW TO USE PLANETARY PERIODS 

The life cycle used in this main system of planetary periods 
(Vimshottari Dasha) is 120 years. Naturally, most of us do not live that 
[ long, and difficult periods limit our lifespan. Those periods coming after 
I death, however, help us determine the nature of the after-life state, the 
1 sojourn in the astral plane of the respective soul. 

Time is not the same on the astral plane as on the physical. It is more 
subtle. If, for example, one dies during a negative planetary period, the 
( remainder of that periods influence will affect the after-death state. 

The Major period, Maha Dasha, varies from 6-20 years, depending 
upon the planet. The average is 13 Vy years. 

The Minor period, Bhukti Dasha, varies from 8 months to 2 years and 
3 months, with an average of 1 V 2 years. 

The Subminor period, Antar Dasha, varies from 30-90 days or 1-3 
months, depending upon the planet, with an average of 60 days. To get 
these, we divide the minor period by the following amounts, starting with 
the period of the planet which rules the minor period. For the Sun V 20 , for 
the Moon Vn, for Mars V120, for Rahu 9 /60, for Jupiter Vis, for Saturn 
•^120, for Mercury 1V120, for Ketu V 120 , and for Venus Vs . 


Ifi.cLcrlxru. KiaZ SJ^LiuLh-A. 



Planetary Periods: Planetary Influences Through Time 201 

The Subsubminor period, Sukshma Antar Dasha, varies from 3-10 
days, with an average of about a week. We can get these by dividing the 
Subminor periods by the same proportions. 

It should be noted that unless the birth time is very accurate, the 
Subsubminor periods may not be exact. For confidence in using these 
periods, the birth must be exact to one minute (which is seldom the case, 
except by careful rectification). An error of two minutes in the birth time 
will put the Subsubminor periods approximately one entire period off. 
Hence, some astrologers do not put so much emphasis on these periods. 

Moreover, depending upon the Ayanamsha used, the timing of major j 
planetary periods may di ffer. A difference of one degree in the Ayanamsha 
will vary the major planetary periods for a year or more, depending upon j 
their length. Hence, planetary periods are one of the best testing grounds u 
for the different Ayanamshas. 

BACKGROUND TRANSITS 

We should consider current transits of planets relative to planetary 
periods. The transits of the strongest planet or lord of the Ascendant in') 
the birth chart are always important. We take special notice of the transits J 
of the planet ruling the period, particularly the Major and Minor lords. We/ 
also note transits of planets to the period lords. These transits have about 
V 3 value in judging the effects of the periods. The rest is determined by 
the positions and relations between these planets in the birth chart. Strong 
transits are of particular importance when they occur at the juncture 
between planetary periods. 

For Minor planetary periods, we note especially transits of the distant 
planets; Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune, and Pluto, as well as the Lunar 
Nodes, as these often have an effect for a period up to one year. 

For Subminor periods we examine more the transits of the closer 
planets; Mars, Sun, Venus, Mercury, as their influence tends to dispense 
itself during this lesser period. 

PLANETARY RETURNS 

Returns of planets to their natal positions are considered along with 
transits; they are often the most important form of transits. Monthly Lunar 
returns, yearly Solar returns, 12-13 year Jupiter returns, 18-19 year nodal, 
(Rahu and Ketu) returns, and 29 year Saturn returns are particularly! 
important. 

It is most important to note the returns of Major and Minor lords. A ^ 
chart can be drawn up for that time and compared to the birth chart for 
showing the effects of the period. 


£7 1 MxjxrlxrnlcjtLL tf^iuLh.A. 



202 


The Astrology of the Seers 


USE OF PERIOD LORDS 

The lord of the Major period will give the results of the houses it rules, 
and the hnusesjmd house lords it asp ects . To use the planetary periods 
correctly one must firmly understand the principles of house rulership and 
the temporal status of planets as already outlined This system is specific 
for interpreting the results of planetary periods. The Major lord is 
considered to be casting an aspect towards all the planets and houses, but 
doubly so toward those it has an aspect on in the birth chart. 

The lord of the Minor period will also be casting similar aspects as 
the Major lord. M™uimpprp»nt is the relationship between the Major and 
Minor lord. Whatever relationship is present betwee n them in the b irth 
chart will be magnified. Generally, the Major.lord wijl be considered to 
be casting.aspect on the Minor lord, modifying therefore the nature of its 
results. 

If no direct aspect exists in the birth chart, their influences will still 
be combined as if a direct aspect did. For example, if Jupiter and Venus 
are both benefically disposed in the birth chart but have no aspect there, 
still, during the Jupiter major-Venus minor period many of the effects of 
a Jupiter-Venus aspect will be in evidence — though not as strongly as if 
a full aspect existed between them in the birth chart. 

One should also examine, in addition to aspects, house relationships. 
Planets in inauspicious houses from each other, like the sixth, eighth or 
twelfth will not tend to work well together. Those in auspicious houses, 
like Tfines or Quadrants will have goo effects even without aspects 
between them. 

Also note friendship and enmity. Friendly planets will give better 
results as Major and Minor period lords. Inimical planets will cause some 
difficulties, even if they both have some auspicious nature relative to the 
birth chart as a whole. These different factors should be weighed and 
synthesized and used to adjust the effects of the periods. 

The lord of the Subminor period should also be considered as making 
aspects or forming relationships with the Major and Minor lords, as well 
as strengthening those which may exist in the natal chart. The Subminor 
lord will modulate the effects of the Minor lord. 

HOW TO DETERMINE FAVORABLE PERIODS 

The general rule is that the most favorable times occur when there is 
a combination of different benefic lords; that is, when all the Major, 
I Minor, and Subminor period lords are benefic in nature and different 
planets. Next favorable times occur when all are benefic but one is 
repeated twice (so there are still no malefics in the sequence). 


£7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. ( EJU-il£IlA. 





Planetary Periods: Planetary Influences Through Time 203 

Of similar nature is a condition in which all period lords rule the same 
domain of life, since it is seldom that a group of planets is benefic for all 
domains of life. A time in which the lords of the Ninth, Eleventh, Second, 
or Fifth houses combine will naturally be very good for business and 
income. 

On the other hand, for a negative example, when the lords of the Sixth, Jj 
Eighth, Twelfth, or Third houses combine, disease or difficulties will be' 
more likely. 

Particularly auspicious is when a Major planetary period of a benefic] 
planet begins. Of it, the first Minor, Subminor and Subsubminor periods/ 
will be ruled by it also. This is a good time for projecting the goals on 
actions to be achieved within the planetary period as a whole. HoweverA 
a good planetary period does not always give its results immediately. In' 
the beginning the seeds of its positive developments will come forth but^ 
not necessarily the fruit. 

When Minor periods begin, the Subminor period will also be ruled f 
by the same planet. This is also a favorable time for the affairs of the Minor 
lord that are in harmony with the Major lord. 

The beginning of planetary periods, particularly the Major and Minor, 
is a good time for balancing — via gems, mantras, deities, or other 
remedial measures — the possible negative influences of the period lords. 
If the planet is benefic but weak, we can strengthen its influence via its \ 
gem. If it is malefic, we can propitiate it via mantra, ritual, or worship. If 
it is malefic we can strengthen the lord of its ruling period if the lord is 
benefic. For example, if a negative Saturn minor period is starting within 
a positive Jupiter major period, one can either propitiate Saturn or 
strengthen Jupiter. 

Of these period rulers the Major lord is most important for determin¬ 
ing the general nature of the time, then the Minor, Subminor and Sub¬ 
subminor lords in that order. 

For example, if the Major lord rules the second (a house of livelihood) 
the Minor lord rules the Eleventh (a house of income), and the Subminor 
rules the Ninth (a house of fortune), then material gain is likely. If the 
Major lord rules the Ninth (a house of religion), the Minor rules the Fifth 
(a house of intelligence), and the Subminor rules the Second (a house of 
intellect), it would be favorable for communication of spiritual, religious, 
or legal principles. 

Of course, the natural status of planets must be considered as well. If 
one is in a period in which the Major lord rules the Sixth, the Minor lord 
the Eighth, and the Subminor lord is a temporally benefic Saturn, the 
natural malefic nature of Saturn may quite likely be brought into play, 
along with the general difficult nature of the predominant period lords. 


£7 'MxjxrlxrnlcjtLL 



204 77ie Astrology of the Seers 

DETERMINATION OF FAVORABLE TIMES 

Once we have come upon a time period when the Major, Minor, and 
Subminor lords are favorable, we should look for a day when the Moon 
and the lord of the day are also favorable. Next, we should examine a time 
on that day when the Ascendant and Navamsha Ascendant are favorable, 
then we will have a most excellent time for a particular venture. Lastly, 
we should pick a favorable hourly lord, if possible. 

The nature of the venture — starting a business, a marriage, spiritual 
initiation, or whatever — will determine the nature of the factors we give 
emphasis to. For spiritual initiation, we would consider the Ninth house, 
| its lord, Jupiter, and the Atmakaraka as most important. 

For partnership, we would have to examine the charts of both indi¬ 
viduals and find a day good in both of their charts. Naturally, this may 
involve some compromise. We would aim at finding the best possible day 
within the required period — a month, several months, or whatever the 
venture requires. 

The use of planetary periods is thus not only for determining the 
nature of the influences operative at their specific times but also for 
determining within them favorable times for different actions. This does 
not mean that we have to live by astrology, using the ephemeris or 
examining the birth chart every day or week. A monthly examination, 
however, is helpful, and a yearly examination is a good thing for most of 
us to follow. The purpose is not to make us slaves to time and the planets 
but to increase our perception of the forces at work in our lives. It is mainly 
for important decisions and changes that we should consult our planets. 
Planetary periods can also be used to determine good times to do rituals 
(like pujas or homas and meditations). 

PLANETARY HOURS 

Each planet governs certain hours of the day. They will give their 
main results at these times. Auspicious planets in the chart will give good 
results at their hours; inauspicious planets will cause difficulty, as per all 
the general rules. 

Influences will be compounded according to the favorable or unfa¬ 
vorable nature of the planet ruling the day (like the Sun for Sunday) and 
its relationship with the planet ruling the hour. The disposition of the 
Moon at the time is also important, as is the nature of the Ascendant. 

Planets governing the respective hours are listed below. Their influ¬ 
ence commences with the beginning of the hour and concludes with its 
ending. The planet ruling the day starts off the hourly sequence at apparent 
sunrise. Tables or Astrological programs can be consulted for this time. 


£ 7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. ( EJU-il£IlA. 



Planetary Periods: Planetary Influences Through Time 205 


The sequence is Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, Sun, Venus, Mercury, Moon, from 
the slowest to the fastest moving of the planets. 


SUN. 

MON. 

TUES. 

WED. 

THURS. 

FRI. 

SAT. 

1 Sun 

Moon 

Mars 

Mercury 

Jupiter 

Venus 

Saturn 

2 Venus 

Saturn 

Sun 

Moon 

Mars 

Mercury 

Jupiter 

3 Mercury 

Jupiter 

Venus 

Saturn 

Sun 

Moon 

Mars 

4 Moon 

Mars 

Mercury 

Jupiter 

Venus 

Saturn 

Sun 

S Saturn 

Sun 

Moon 

Mars 

Mercury 

Jupiter 

Venus 

6 Jupiter 

Venus 

Saturn 

Sun 

Moon 

Mars 

Mercury 

7 Mars 

Mercury 

Jupiter 

Venus 

Saturn 

Sun 

Moon 

8 Sun 

Moon 

Mars 

Mercury 

Jupiter 

Venus 

Saturn 

9 Venus 

Saturn 

Sun 

Moon 

Mars 

Mercury 

Jupiter 

10 Mercury 

Jupiter 

Venus 

Saturn 

Sun 

Moon 

Mars 

11 Moon 

Mars 

Mercury 

Jupiter 

Venus 

Saturn 

Sun 

12 Saturn 

Sun 

Moon 

Mars 

Mercury 

Jupiter 

Venus 

13 Jupiter 

Venus 

Saturn 

Sun 

Moon 

Mars 

Mercury 

14 Mars 

Mercury 

Jupiter 

Venus 

Saturn 

Sun 

Moon 

IS Sun 

Moon 

Mars 

Mercury 

Jupiter 

Venus 

Saturn 

16 Venus 

Saturn 

Sun 

Moon 

Mars 

Mercury 

Jupiter 

17 Mercury 

Jupiter 

Venus 

Saturn 

Sun 

Moon 

Mars 

18 Moon 

Mars 

Mercury 

Jupiter 

Venus 

Saturn 

Sun 

19 Saturn 

Sun 

Moon 

Mars 

Mercury 

Jupiter 

Venus 

20 Jupiter 

Venus 

Saturn 

Sun 

Moon 

Mars 

Mercury 

21 Mars 

Mercury 

Jupiter 

Venus 

Saturn 

Sun 

Moon 

22 Sun 

Moon 

Mars 

Mercury 

Jupiter 

Venus 

Saturn 

23 Venus 

Saturn 

Sun 

Moon 

Mars 

Mercury 

Jupiter 

24 Mercury 

Jupiter 

Venus 

Saturn 

Sun 

Moon 

Mars 


HORARY ASTROLOGY 

Astrological charts can be done for any important moment, event, or' 
decision in life, not just for the moment of birth. They can be done for 
marriages or for the moment of death. They can be done for the initiation 
of businesses, for moves — for charting the course of anything. The ( 
branch of astrology that deals with such things is called “hor&ry astrology” ] 
and the chart so done is called a “horary chart.” 

Astrologers may do a chart for a client based upon the moment they 
see them. This is helpful for predicting various aspects of the client’s life, 
particularly for the important issues they need to deal with in the reading. 

Generally, for Horary astrology the client comes with a particular 
question, like how their health will proceed or if they should move to a 
new place. The moment they put the question to the astrologer becomes 
the time for erecting the chart. It is then interpreted for finding out how 


£7 'MxjxrlxrnlcjtLL tf^iuLh.A. 



2 06 77ie Astrology of the Seers 

this issue will develop. At any moment a chart can be drawn and this will 
plot the course of events decided at that moment. 

Nothing in life is without meaning or is entirely coincidental. Each 
event follows cosmic law and can be interpreted according to prevailing 
planetary positions. With computers to calculate charts, it becomes rela¬ 
tively easy to examine charts for a variety of conditions in life. It is helpful 
to do such charts for important moments in our lives. It is also important 
to remain aware of current planetary positions, as these affect all of us, 
and have both individual and collective ramifications. 

In this regard, the astrologer may be called upon to judge the course 
of events that began at a particular time; or he may be called upon to 
choose an auspicious time for beginning a particular enterprise. The 
astrologer aids in attunement to cosmic law and thus helps human affairs 
to flourish in harmony with it. 

In judging marriages, for example, a horary chart for the time of 
marriage may be as important as comparing the birth charts of the couple. 
Charts done for the moment of death of a person will usually give 
indications of their next life. Charts done for the time of accidents or the 
onset of serious illnesses are helpful in prognosis. 

Horary charts are interpreted similarly to birth charts, yet the practical 
issue, rather than a person, has to be interpreted. If it is a marriage issue, 
for example, then the factors of marriage (the Seventh house, its lord, and 
significator) become most important. If it is a business issue, like the stock 
market, we will look to the Fifth, Ninth and Eleventh houses, their lords 
and significators. While this book focuses on the birth chart and its 
ramifications, the same principles can be applied to the horary chart. Even 
the planetary periods can be used to trace the development of a particular 
issue through time. Indeed, in Vedic astrology, astrologers do more work 
on this level than the simple reading of birth charts. However, the birth 
chart is also the foundation for understanding the horary charts erected 
for a particular individual. Once the birth chart is understood, we have not 
reached the end of astrology, we always have unlimited ground for 
exploring the ramifications of the birth chart through such horary and 
attunment methods. 


^7#if/<rZtra.Zc.a/ ( EJhju£JlA. 



PART III 


ASTROLOGY, HEALING 
AND TRANSFORMATION 


?7#it/<rZcra.Zc.a/ WfLUjthS. 




Venus 



“Clothed in white, white in lustre, who 
has four arms, the teacher of the demons, 
whose nature is peaceful, whose vehicle is 
a white horse, who carries a rosary, 
waterpot and staff in his hands, with a 
diamond crest jewel on his head, making 
the gesture that gives boons, may Divine 
Venus ever grant us his grace. ” 

£7 'HjdxHjTal.cjtLL 



1 

MEDICAL 


ASTROLOGY 


AYURVEDA 

Ayurveda is the classical medical tradition of India, its natural healing 
system. It also goes back to the original ancient Vedic culture and science, 
and has a close relationship with Vedic astrology. It contains within its 
vast scope all forms of healing from herbs and surgery to Yoga and 
psychology. It provides an integral and holistic system of diagnosis and 
treatment, aiming not only at the cure and prevention of disease but also 
at rejuvenation and the transformation of the mind. Its basis is a system 
for determining individual constitution, for ascertaining the unique nature 
and health needs of each person. It provides methods of treatment which 
aim at enabling each individual to take responsibility for their own health, 
including many forms of self-care. 

AYURVEDA AND ASTROLOGY 

Ayurveda and Vedic astrology are related aspects of Vedic science, 
the all-comprehensive cosmic science of Yoga. Many astrologers in India 
have practiced Ayurveda and many Vaidyas (Ayurvedic doctors) have 
been astrologers. Even when not trained in Ayurveda, astrologers still 
consider disease and its treatment. Even when not trained in astrology, 
Ayurvedic doctors may refer to astrology or astrological treatment meth¬ 
ods. 

I have studied and trained in both systems and found them to be very 
helpful in supplementing each other. Astrology gives us a broader under¬ 
standing of our energy patterns through the whole of life and all aspects 
of our nature. It is a subtler healing science than any form of physical 
medicine. Ayurveda aids astrology in giving an applicable energetic 
system of medicine that can use the astrological model, that in origin is 
in harmony with it. Anyone practicing Medical astrology should have 
some training in a medical system. Astrology reads our nature in such a 
broad and general way that the specifics of daily or monthly fluctuations 
in physical problems may be hard to discern through it. Nor does the study 
of astrology alone give us the understanding of the appropriate tools of 


£ 7 1 MjcLo4xjtijjcjclL tf^iuLh.A. 



210 


The Astrology of the Seers 

medical treatment, like diet and herbs. Yet such a medical system should 
have a naturalistic and energetic basis in harmony with that of astrology 
itself. 

Astrology examines disease, as it considers the entire life of man and 
all aspects of our being; body, mind, soul, and spirit. There is a special 
branch of “Medical astrology” dealing specifically with health problems, 
though not limited to the physical body in its examination or treatment. 
Health, after all, is the basis of all our human endeavors, as without it, we 
may lack the energy to accomplish anything. 

Astrologers can determine the basic physical constitution of the 
individual from the chart — the physical appearance of the individual, the 
predomination of elements in their nature. They can calculate basic health, 
longevity and disease tendencies. They can see which planets have the 
power to cause disease, what kinds of disease are likely to occur, what 
parts of the body are likely to be effected, and when. As health and 
longevity are primary, they are often the first things examined in the chart. 

MEDICAL ASTROLOGY 

Medical astrology one of the main branches of astrology. As it 
includes remedial measures for harmonizing planetary influences on both 
body and mind, it is the most practical branch as well. It includes the entire 
astrology of healing. Astrology is not only helpful for ordinary disease 
conditions, it also has means of diagnosis and treatment for diseases which 
are not curable by usual medical methods. It gives us a better picture and 
methodology for dealing with disease that come from internal causes. 

Diseases, like all disharmonies in life, are associated with negative 
planetary influences. There are several methods whereby planetary influ¬ 
ences can be balanced and harmonized. The foremost of these is gem-ther¬ 
apy, to which is often allied color therapy, from which it derives. The 
gems corresponding to the planets are used to redirect planetary influences 
in a positive way. 

Mantras (words of power), yantras (power diagrams), special rituals 
(pujas and homas), and other Yogic methods for modifying planetary 
forces are also used. These work more directly on the level of the mind. 
They are particularly effective for mental disorders, including psychic 
disorders (on which most mental disorders are really based). They 
strengthen the aura and the immune system and clear out negative occult 
influences, which includes a variety of factors from karma from past lives, 
to the negative thoughts of others, and subtle environmental pollutants 
like low level radiation. 

The planets represent the basic energies operating in the cosmos, the 
prime qualities which operate in all life. As such, all of our life can be 


£7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. SJ^LiuLh-A. 



Astrology and Ayurveda: Medical Astrology 211 

arranged to counteract the negative planetary influences in our chart. The 
right diet, right herbs, right location to live, the right livelihood, the right 
spiritual practices and so on, can all be used to balance planetary forces. 
For example. Mars is a hot planet and if too strong can cause heat disorders 
like fever, inflammation and infection, as well as traumas and injury. Its 
influence can be countered by cooling food, cooling herbs, a cool climate, 
cool colors, as well as special gems and mantras for the planet. 

THE THREE HUMORS, THEIR LOCATION AND FUNCTION 

Ayurveda classifies individuals and body types according to the three 
biological humors. These correspond to the predominant element in the 
individual. 

The biological Air humor is called “Vata,” which means literally 
“what blows,” the wind. The Air humor governs all movement in the body 
from the brain as it guides the nervous system. It is responsible for the 
discharge of all impulses, and as the directing force moves the other 
humors. It allows for sensitivity, agility and facility in the action of body 
and mind. 

The biological Fire humor is called “Pitta,” which means “what 
cooks.” The Fire humor governs all transformations in the body from its 
primary location in the small intestine as the digestive fire. It is responsible 
for heat and light, including all chemical reactions and also governs 
perception, judgement and discrimination. 

The biological Water humor is called “Kapha,” “what sticks.” The 
Water humor governs all form and substance in the body from its primary 
location in the stomach and lungs. It is responsible for weight, cohesion 
and stability in the body, and provides for the proper lubrication and easy 
discharge of secretions. 

Each humor also possesses a site of accumulation, where its excess 
condition develops and from which it causes disease. The Air humor has 
for its site of derangement the colon, where it accumulates as toxic gas 
and spreads through out the body, deranging motion and nervous function. 
It creates various ”wind” diseases like arthritis, paralysis and other ner¬ 
vous disorders. 

The Fire humor accumulates in the small intestine as hyperacidity or 
excess bile. From there it enters the blood and spreads through out the 
body as toxic heat, causing various inflammatory and infectious disorders. 

The Water humor accumulates in the stomach and lungs as mucus, 
and from there it spreads through out the body creating various diseases 
of excess phlegm, fat and water, including edema, asthma and bronchitis. 


£7 'MxjxrlxrnlcjtLL tf^iuLh.A. 



212 The Astrology of the Seers 

CHARACTERISTIC TYPES 
Air Types 

Vata-types, those in whom the biological Air humor predominates 
are usually tall or short, seldom average in height. They are often thin, 
bony, with muscles not well developed, and have prominent veins. The 
skin is dry, cracked, rough, usually brown or dusky in complexion. The 
teeth are not always well formed, may be crooked or have spaces between 
them. The digestion is variable; the appetite may be great at sometimes, 
totally absent at others. Air types often do not realize they are hungry until 
they are starving. They must often eat every two or three hours to keep 
themselves grounded. They frequently suffer from constipation, abdom¬ 
inal distention and gas. 

Their urine is scanty, and they seldom perspire much. They are light 
sleepers and often suffer from insomnia. Once disturbed, they do not fall 
back to sleep easily. They may have restless dreams and nightmares, 
particularly the fearful type. They are sensitive to cold, wind and dryness. 
In short, they are dominated and agitated by Saturnian influences. 

Air types arc physically active and energetic. They enjoy speed and 
like running, flying and skiing; yet they tire easily and lack stamina. They 
are often athletic, particularly in youth, but lack the physique and endur¬ 
ance for strong exercise. They easily get muscle spasms or stiffness, and 
commonly develop arthritis (Saturn’s influence on the bones and mus¬ 
cles). They suffer quickly from overwork and tend to overextend them¬ 
selves. They are the weakest type physically and often suffer from chronic 
diseases and nervous disorders (the influence of Saturn and Rahu). 

Mentally, they are quick and agile and are often talkative. They are 
often commonly highly intellectual and can understand many different 
points of view (as their Mercury is often strong). Sometimes they are 
superficial in their ideas and talk on mechanically. Their will is usually 
indecisive. While they may be knowledgeable of many different opinions, 
they often cannot determine which is right and waver in their views. 

Air types are often good school teachers, computer programmers and 
excel at working with the mass media. They are good at thinking, writing 
and organizing data (mercurial occupations). They make good musicians 
but may be oversensitive to sound. 

They can be highly socially oriented and like to mix with others 
(particularly when Mercury is stronger). Yet when the Air element is too 
high (Saturn and Rahu), they become loners. This is often because they 
have too much to say and don’t know how to relate it, not because they 
are really of a solitary nature. 


£7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. ( EJU-il£IlA. 



Astrology and Ayurveda: Medical Astrology 213 

Air types suffer most from fear. They may be afflicted by anxiety, 
depression, or ungroundedness, and usually lack stability. They easily get 
spacedrout and may be absent minded. Their memory is often short term 
or erratic. They are not entirely present in their bodies and may be a bit 
clumsy (such influence are largely due to their susceptibility to Rahu, the 
north node of the Moon). Yet when well developed they possess the 
greatest agility of body and mind. 

Air types need to be nurtured and should be approached with sensi¬ 
tivity. The rule is to treat them like a flower. They easily feel frightened 
and are prone to withdraw, if approached forcefully. 

Fire Types 

Pitta types, those in whom the biological Fire humor predominates, 
are usually of average height or build. They have well-developed muscles 
and good skin color, which may be flushed or red. Their skin is prone to 
acne, rashes and other such inflammatory skin disorders, and is usually 
oily. Their eyes may get red or inflamed easily. They are sensitive to the 
sunlight and often have to wear glasses. Their hair is thin, and they tend 
towards early greying or balding. The hair color is often red or blond. 
Their gums tend to be soft and may bleed easily. They are sensitive to 
heat and prefer all things which are cooling. 

Fiery types usually posses an appetite that is good, sharp or excessive. 
Their discharges — feces, urine or mucus — tend to be of yellow color 
and large in quantity. They possess an excess of bile which often colors 
these discharges. They more commonly have loose stool or diarrhea. They 
sweat easily, and their sweat and other discharges may be malodorous. 
They often bruise and bleed more easily than the other types. Their sleep 
is moderate in duration but not always good. They have many dreams, 
which may be violent or disturbing. In short, their nature is dominated by 
Mars. 

Fire types are prone to anger and may be aggressive or domineering. 
They have a strong will and can be overly impulsive or self-willed in their 
actions (owing to strong Sun and Mars influences). They like to be leaders 
but can be fanatic or insensitive. They like the use of force and may be 
prone towards argument or violence. They like color, drama and passion. 
They may be orators, singers, painters or dancers. 

Fire types are often very intelligent, perceptive and discriminating. 
They make good scientists and often have a good understanding of 
mechanics and mathematics. They like to work with tools, weapons or 
chemistry. They have probing minds, and are good at research and 
invention. They may be good psychologists. They may have the deep 
insight that goes with Ketu, the south node of the Moon. 


£ 7 1 MjcLo4xjtijjcjclL tf^iuLh.A. 



214 The Astrology of the Seers 

Most military persons or policemen are Fire types, as Mars for them 
is a strong planet for all aspects of their nature. They are good at law and 
punishment. Most lawyers are of this type, including most politicians. Yet 
Fire types may lack compassion and have a hard time seeing another’s 
point of view. 

Fire types must be approached with tact and sensitivity, as they don’t 
like to be given directions or told what to do. One must appeal to their 
native intelligence, discrimination and logic. Opposing them will only 
encourage their basic aggression and will not help them learn. They like 
to work in friendship or in common alliance towards a particular goal. It 
is by the commonality of goal that we can guide them. 

Water Types 

Kapha types, those in whom the biological Water humor predomi¬ 
nates, are usually short and stocky. Sometimes they are tall but they 
always possess a large frame. Their skin is thick and flesh well-developed. 
They tend towards corpulence or obesity. They will hold excess weight 
and water unless they work hard to prevent it. They possess well-devel¬ 
oped chests. Their eyes are large, white and attractive, with large lashes. 
Their hair is abundant and thick. Their teeth are large, white and attractive. 
They sleep easily, often excessively, and may be lazy. They suffer from 
cold and dampness but possess strong endurance. 

Water types tend to accumulate phlegm and suffer most from bron¬ 
chial and pulmonary disorders. They also suffer from edema and weak 
kidneys. They are most prone to overweight. This is from the influence 
of the Moon or Jupiter which rules them. 

Water types are emotional. They have much love, devotion and 
loyalty (the Moon and Venus). Yet they also possess much desire and 
attachment, and may be greedy (Venus and lower Jupiterian influences). 
They are romantic, sentimental, and may cry easily and superficially. 
They are possessive and often clinging. 

Water types are conservative and are often traditional or conventional 
in their behavior and beliefs. They like to belong and seldom rebel. They 
are largely contented and like to accept things as they are. They are stable 
but sometimes stagnate. They do not like to change and find it difficult to 
change even when they want to. They are friendly, particularly with 
people they know, and hold closely to their families. Yet they have 
difficulties relating to strangers or foreigners. While they do not like to 
hurt others, they are often insensitive to the needs of others. They do not 
take hints. Often they have to be confronted or criticized to get them 
moving in life. 


£7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. SJ^LiuLh-A. 



’ Astrology and Ayurveda: Medical Astrology 215 

Mentally, they are slower than the other types, but what they learn is 
retained. Much repetition is needed for them in the learning process. They 
are not often creative or inventive, but they do carry things out and make 
them practical. They are better at finishing ideas than at developing them. 
They like to bring things into form and create institutions and establish¬ 
ments. 

Water types are usually good parents and providers. As women they 
are good mothers and wives (again owing to the lunar influence upon 
them). They are good at cooking, baking and homemaking. The men may 
be chefs or work in restaurants. With their large chests, good lungs and 
good voices, they make good singers. They like to accumulate wealth and 
hold firmly to what they get. They excel at real estate and make good 
bankers. 

Water types must be approached firmly, as they respond slowly. Often 
they need to be shocked into taking action. They must be approached with 
force, determination and consistency. 

We should note that astrology is not quite as general as this, as it has 
not just three types but nine types relative to the influences of the nine 
planets. Its delineation of character and body types through the planets is 
more specific. 

THE THREE HUMORS AND THE FOUR ELEMENTS 

Ayurveda employs three humors, which are essentially the same as 
the three elements of Air, Fire and Water. Astrology uses the four 
elements, including the Earth. Ayurveda tends to include the Earth under 
the Water humor. 

Vedic astrology also contains a classification of planets by the three 
humors: 

VATA/A1R Saturn, Rahu, Mercury 

P1TTA/F1RE Sun, Mars, Ketu 

KAPHA/WATER Moon, Venus, Jupiter 

We can classify the distant planets similarly: 

URANIIS Vata/Air (a higher octave of Mercury) 

PLUTO Pitta/Fire (a higher octave Mars) 

NEPTUNE Kapha/Water (a higher octave of Venus) 

Saturn and Rahu are most responsible for Vata (Air) disorders. Mars 
and Ketu are most responsible for Pitta (Fire) disorders. The Moon and 
Jupiter cause more Kapha (Water disorders). 


£ 7 'MxjxrlxrnlcjtLL SI^lujLIlA. 



216 


The Astrology of the Seers 


THE BIOLOGICAL HUMORS OF THE SIGNS BY ELEMENT 

The twelve signs are classified according to the three humors. Air, 
Fire and Water signs generally represent the Air, Fire and Water humors. 

AIR SIGNS Gemini, Libra, Aquarius 

FIRE SIGNS Aries, Leo, Sagittarius 

WATER SIGNS Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces 

EARTH SIGNS Taurus, Virgo, Capricorn 

Earth signs are divided up among the three humors, though generally 
they are thought to possess all three. Fixed earth, Taurus, is more com¬ 
monly water, as water is fixed in quality (the Moon, a watery planet, is 
exalted in this sign). Mutable earth, Virgo, is more commonly air, as air 
is Mutable in quality. Cardinal earth, Capricorn, is more commonly fire, 
as fire is Cardinal in quality (Mars, a fiery planet is exalted in this sign). 
This gives us the following order: 

BIOLOGICAL AIR HUMOR (VATA) Gemini, Virgo, Libra, Aquarius 
BIOLOGICAL FIRE HUMOR (PITTA) Aries, Leo, Sagittarius, Capricorn 
BIOLOGICAL WATER HUMOR (KAPHA) Taurus, Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces 

The signs also have secondary characteristics and some are dual in 
nature. 

ARIES Double Fire (both primary and secondary Fire) 

TAURUS Double Water (both primary and secondary Water) 

GEMINI Double Air (both primary and secondary Air) 

CANCER General Water (represents Water element in the body in 

general) 

LEO General Fire (represents Fire in the body in general) 

VIRGO General Air (represents Air in the body in general) 

LIBRA Air and Water 

SCORPIO Water and Fire 

SAGITTARIUS Fire and Water 
CAPRICORN Fire and Air 

AQUARIUS Air and Fire 

PISCES Water and Air 

The nature of the first six signs is singular and fairly clear; that of the 
second six is dual and can often go either way. 

THE BIOLOGICAL HUMOR OF THE SIGNS BY RULING PLANET 

As per the general rule, it is the planets which are more important than 
the signs for determining the nature of things. The signs determine more 
the field of action and often are more indicative of the site of disease. 


£7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. ( EJU-il£IlA. 



Astrology and Ayurveda: Medical Astrology 21 7 

Some astrologers classify the humors of the signs according to the planets 
which rule them: 

ARIES, LEO and SCORPIO are FIRE, as they are ruled by fiery 
planets Mars and the Sun. 

TAURUS, CANCER, LIBRA, SAGITTARIUS and PISCES are WATER, as 
they are ruled by water planets Venus, the Moon and Jupiter. 

GEMINI, VIRGO, CAPRICORN and AQUARIUS are AIR, as they are 
ruled by airy planets. Mercury and Saturn. 

From my own experience, Scorpio, a water sign by element, is 
generally Pitta in nature, as according to Ayurveda, the biological Fire 
humor, Pitta, also contains water or oil as its base. The Moon in Scorpio 
is usually Pitta (fiery and agitated). 

DETERMINING THE BIOLOGICAL HUMOR ASTROLOGICALLY 

The most important factor for determining individual constitution is 
the Ascendant or First house, which governs the physical incarnation 
generally. Usually peoplfe follow the Ascendant in their physical type. 
However, this is a general rule and other factors have to be considered. 
Planets located in the First house are important. Mars on the Ascendant, 
for example, often renders a person fiery, particularly if it also aspects the 
lord of the Ascendant. 

Along with the Ascendant has to be considered the influences upon 
it and upon its lord. The Sun has to be considered as significator of the 
First house. 

It is good to examine more the Sun for men and the Moon for women, 
as indicating the physical type. However, when the Moon is stronger than 
the Ascendant it may determine the physical type even for men. Conjunc¬ 
tions of planets with the Sun or Moon are quite significant. Mars in 
conjunction with the Sun often make the person fiery. 

Planets in the Sixth house, or aspecting it and its lord, also affect the ! 
physical constitution by creating our disease tendency and general diges¬ 
tive power. 

The main rule is that the planet which has the greatest strength of 
influence on the various factors representing the body — i.e., the First and 
Sixth houses, their lords, the Sun and Moon and their rulers, will generally 
determine the physical type. If two planets of the same humor (like the 
Moon and Jupiter which are both water) strongly affect these factors, then 
the judgement is more assured. 

In other words, the Ayurvedic constitution usually follows the nature 
of the strongest planet in the chart or the planetary type which the person 


£ 7 1 MjcLo4xjtijjcjclL tf^iuLh.A. 



218 The Astrology of the Seers 

represents. However, it is a complicated issue and we do not have the 
space to go into it here in adequate detail as it presumes some knowledge 
and experience in astrology and medicine to discuss it. 

We should be careful in judging Ayurvedic constitution by the chart 
alone as it is a complicated matter. A picture or medical history or 
Ayurvedic questionnaire on the person can be helpful. Astrology consid¬ 
ers far more than health or the physical body, and it is often difficult to 
determine which factors in the chart will affect these most specifically. 

DISEASE-CAUSING PLANETS 

Malefic planets, either natural or temporal, promote disease. Natural 
malefics are Rahu, Saturn, Ketu, Mars, and the Sun in order of their power 
to cause disease. Temporal malefics are the lords of the Sixth, Eighth, 
Eleventh, Third, and Twelfth houses in order of their disease causing 
powers. Planets when weak also cause disease or become the sites of 
disease, benefics as well as malefics. 

Planets cause disease by occupying malefic houses. These are the 
Sixth, Eighth, Tvelfth, Third, and Eleventh in order of their power. Planets 
in the first three of these houses are particularly strong in this regard. 

Malefics are considered to be strong in the Sixth house. Yet their 
strength is mainly in terms of power, prestige and wealth. They can still 
cause disease, particularly if under negative aspects. 

In regard to house location, the strength of a planet as to sign and 
planetary relationships should be considered. The Moon in the Sixth in 
Cancer would give good health but in Scorpio would be more likely to 
cause problems like hyperacidity (Pitta disorders). The Moon in Cancer 
in the Sixth, weak in brightness and aspected by Saturn and Rahu, would 
doubly cause disease, as both the Sixth and its ruler would be strongly 
afflicted. 

Planetary Lords 

Malefic planetary lords are strong to cause disease. The lord of the 
Sixth house causes injury, accidents, acute diseases, low vitality, poor 
digestion, and poor resistance. The lord of the Eighth causes poor vitality, 
chronic and wasting diseases, including premature death. 

The lord of the Eleventh functions like that of the Sixth, but with less 
power. The lord of the Third functions like that of the Eighth but with less 
power. 

The lord of the Tvelfth causes sorrow, grief, emotional disorders, and 
shows confinement to a bed or hospital — often a chronically sick person. 


£7 ^MxLxrlxralcjqJ. ( EJU-il£IlA. 



Astrology and Ayurveda: Medical Astrology 219 

SIGNS AND HOUSES 

The signs and houses correspond to certain parts of the body. These 
are as follows: 


ARIES 

Head 

FIRST HOUSE 

TAURUS 

Neck 

SECOND HOUSE 

GEMINI 

Upper Chest 

THIRD HOUSE 

CANCER 

Breasts 

FOURTH HOUSE 

LEO 

Solar Plexus 

FIFTH HOUSB 

VIRGO 

Navel Region 

SIXTH HOUSE 

LIBRA 

Lower Abdomen 

SEVENTH HOUSE 

SCORPIO 

Pubic Region 

EIGHTH HOUSE 

SAGITTARIUS 

Thighs 

NINTH HOUSE 

CAPRICORN 

Knees 

TENTH HOUSE 

AQUARIUS 

Calves 

ELEVENTH HOUSE 

PISCES 

Feet 

TWELFTH HOUSE 


If both the sign and house of the same number are afflicted, the 
particular bodily part which corresponds to them is likely to be afflicted. 
For example, if Saturn aspects the ninth sign, the Ninth house and their 
rulers, arthritis or paralysis of the hip is likely. If Saturn aspects the Fifth 
house, the Fifth house from the Moon and their rulers, there is apt to be 
infertility in women, with possible surgery or hysterectomy. 

These correspondences can be made more specific. Aries and First 
house govern the head, the brain and the eyes. They govern the front of 
the head down to the eyes and the back of the head to the base of the skull. 

Taurus and the Second house govern the face, the upper neck to the 
larynx, and the back of the neck to the shoulders, including the cerebellum. 

Gemini and the Third house govern the shoulders, the upper arm and 
upper chest, including the lungs. 

Cancer and the Fourth house govern the front part of the chest to the 
border of the ribs and the elbows, including the stomach. The breasts are 
included here. 

Leo and the Fifth house govern the solar plexus region and the mid 
and upper back, including the small intestine, as well as body vitality in 
general via the heart. 

Virgo and the Sixth house govern the midabdomen and the hands, 
including the colon. They govern the digestive system generally, as well 
as body health as a whole. 

Libra and the Seventh house govern the lower abdomen and the 
lumbar region, including the kidneys and internal genitalia. 

Scorpio and the Eighth house govern the sacrum, rectum, bladder and 
external sex organs. 


£7 'Mxjxrlxrnlcja-L tf^iuLh.A. 



220 The Astrology of the Seers 

Sagittarius and the Ninth house govern the arteries, as well as the 
lower back, hips and thighs. 

Capricorn and the Tenth house govern the bones and joints as well as 
the knees. 

Aquarius and the Eleventh house govern the power of exhalation, the 
skin, as well as the calves. 

Pisces and the TVelfth house govern the lymphatic system, as well as 
the feet. 

THE SIXTH SIGN AND SIXTH HOUSE 

The Sixth house and sixth sign Virgo, which govern the digestive 
nerves, are particularly important in determining disease potential. The 
Sun in Virgo with the Sixth house afflicted will give chronic poor 
digestion. The Sun in the Sixth house, aspected by malefics will similarly 
give long term digestive problems, as will any poorly placed planet in the 
Sixth. Rahu’s aspect on the Sixth house and sixth signs will give variable, 
weak and nervous digestion. 

The Sixth house and sign represent our basic health and purity. 
Afflicted they show disease and the accumulation of waste materials. 
They indicate how we are connected to our bodies and the way we take 
care of our bodies. Afflicted, they show devitalization, which usually 
occurs through our own wrong habits, like bad diet, insufficient rest, or 
excessive sexual indulgence. They may, however, indicate congenital 
weakness. 

Virgo governs Vata, the biological air humor in the body, in general. 
As most diseases are of the Air humor and through weak digestion, planets 
in this sign tend to cause disease. On the other hand, planets in this sign 
can make one a healer if they are more benefically disposed. Sometimes 
our own diseases make us turn to healing. Virgo shows service to the 
physical body, either our own or that of others. 


^7#it/<rZtra.Zc.a/ ( EJhju£JlA. 



2 

ASTROLOGY 


AND PSYCHOLOGY 


Vedic astrology is based upon the system of Yoga for its understand¬ 
ing of the mind. Its definition of the mind and what heals it is thus quite 
different than what we find in modem psychology. It recognizes beyond 
our surface and personal mind the existence and influence of collective, 
cosmic and spiritual levels of consciousness that modem psychology is 
only beginning to explore. Its concern is not just to bring happiness or 
harmony to the outer layers of the mind, but to bring the deeper layers of 
the mind into function by taking us back to our deepest will and aspiration. 
This is often experienced by the surface mind as a kind of shock and 
negation, or at least a reorientation that challenges our idea of who we are 
and what the world is. 

On one level, we could say that Vedic astrology, like Yoga, has no 
psychology. It is not concerned with directing us towards personal and 
emotional fulfillment as the real aim of our lives. It does not see our 
personal identity of this life as our true Self or soul, and cannot equate its 
happiness with our true welfare. It looks upon us as a cosmic and spiritual 
being. It sees our outer nature as a particular formation of the cosmic 
energy, and our inner nature as an aspect of cosmic consciousness. It sees 
our present mind and personality as a temporary veil, or covering, on the 
deeper and broader truth of who we are and our greater oneness with life. 

Vedic astrology does help us to achieve the necessary outer goals of 
life, but as the foundation for seeking the inner goal of liberation. These 
outer goals, as we have discussed them, include enjoyment, wealth, 
recognition, health, and the furthering of our person, family and society 
necessary to maintain ourselves in the world. Vedic astrology tells us what 
we can do to achieve these aims, but it does offer us pity, consolation, or 
cater to our feelings of weakness or deprivation should we not get as much 
of these as we want. Nor does it say that if we fail in them, or only gain 
them partially, that we have missed the real thing in life. It does not 
emphasize the limitations or sufferings of this life. It tells us that we are 
Divine souls with infinite potentials that we can access, if we give them 
our attention and work on them regularly. It tells us that we can achieve * 
anything we want, if we put our will to it. From its perspective, most of 


£ 7 1 MjcLo4xjtijjcjclL tf^iuLh.A. 


222 The Astrology of the Seers 

! our personal and emotional problems come from not directing our life 
energy in a positive way. Hence, its solution to emotional problems is to 
direct us towards some practical action to improve our condition in life, 
not to become entangled in trying to figure the details of such conditions. 

On the other hand, we could say that Vedic astrology employs the real 
science of psychology because it treats the real psyche or soul, not just 
the outer mind. Whereas modem psychology is concerned with the mind 
x (the conditioned entity of memory), Vedic psychology is concerned with 
( the soul (the unconditioned entity of pure consciousness). Whereas mod¬ 
em psychological methods aim at understanding and healing the condi¬ 
tioned mind. Yoga psychology aims at going beyond the mind. Vedic 
astrology shares this orientation, as does Ayurveda, Vedic medicine. Its 
concern is not with the personal traumas of this life as an issue in 
themselves, but with the ongoing evolution of the soul. 

By the law of karma, it tells us that we are responsible for our state 
in life, even the condition of our birth and childhood. We have created 
these situations, and we can transcend them as well. It is not necessary to 
look back upon them (they cannot be changed anyway, nor is there anyone 
to blame for them). We should rather act in the present moment in such a 
way that creates an improved condition for ourselves and for all life for 
the future. 

According to Vedic psychology, psychological disorders are caused 
by a disruption in our connection with our true soul. This is reflected in a 
l lack of integration in our planets, particularly afflictions to the Moon, 
Mercury, the Ascendant, the Fourth house, and their lords. Such psycho¬ 
logical problems, including insanity, can be treated by spiritual and occult 
methods, including mantras, gems, colors, herbs, and diet; done by the 
patient, or by the one treating them. These are probably more helpful than 
merely placing a patient in an asylum, or putting them under long term 
analysis. The spiritual life is not just an issue for those of us who are 
healthy or stable. It is the main issue for all of us, whatever our condition 
may be. 

- By the Yogic view, true knowledge, perception and happiness is only 
achieved when the mind is silent, when it is emptied of its burden of 
emotion, thought and knowledge. This requires emptying the mind of its 
contents, not sorting out or categorizing them. The practice of Yoga itself 
is traditionally defined (Yoga Sutras 1.2.) “as the negation of the thought 
patterns of the mindstuff." According to the system of Yoga, the intellect 
can never give us perception of truth. It can only organize ideas. Hence, 
intellectual understanding has no real value to change our lives, though it 
can make us function more smoothly or efficiently. Yoga emphasizes not 
^intellectual knowledge but consciousness — moment by moment aware- 


£7 'MxlxrlxFTLLGjaJ. SJ^LUjLh-A. 



Astrology and Psychology 


223 


ness —%as the factor of true understanding. Vedic astrology is not con-1 
cemed with intellectual knowledge about the stars, but with reestablishing 
out connection with the Divine and cosmic forces working through them. / 

Vedic astrology does not consider that emotion can bring us to truth 
either. It regards emotion, like intellectual thought, as a reaction of the 
surface mind, which must be stilled for the perception of truth. It is the 
feeling of oneness that should guide us, not our emotional needs and 
compulsions. 

Vedic psychology is thus impersonal and aims at the non-ego. It tells 
us that we are all different combinations of the same cosmic forces coming , 
through the planets and stars. The ego, our sense of personal identity, is , 
a fiction, an illusion which does not really exist. We all have the same 
basic nature, both superficial and deep, and must all go through the same , 
basic life experiences, good and bad, for the growth of our consciousness. 
No soul gets any special treatment, good or bad, in this regard. Our f 
differences come from being at different stages of this process, not I 
because we are really different or separate, better or worse than one j 
another. 


As souls, we all have the same potential and the same basic problems 
to work out in our destiny. The spiritual goal is to go beyond outer 
influences — primarily the need to be somebody in the external world. In 
this regard o ur birth chart is the picture of our ignorance, th e pattern of 
desi re and karma in which we are caught. The purpose of astrology is not 
just to tell us what this is, but to help show us the way out. As souls, we 
are not limited to the birth chart, though it represents the present phase of 
our activity in manifestation. It is a particular energetic pattern of experi¬ 
ence we are trying to understand and master in this incarnation. It is a 
structure we have created, though not entirely in this life, and one we can 
change in time by changing our daily action. 

Vedic psychology thus has a spiritual orientation and a focus on the 
destiny of the soul — its movement from the ignorance to the knowledge, 
from bondage to the cycle of rebirth to liberation into the Divine. In this 
respect, astrology has its limit, because the soul is our eternal being, 
beyond the influence of the stars. Astrology is an aspect of the real science 
of life which is yoga and meditation. It must always move in this direction 
to be of lasting value to us. If it caters too much to the outer goals of life, 
it defeats its real purpose and value. 

This lack of spiritual knowledge in astrology has caused many 
practitioners of Yoga and meditation to dismiss it as of no value. Certainly 
much of astrology can be viewed this way, particularly the popular 
personality-oriented astrology which is more obvious; yet it is not astrol¬ 
ogy that is at fault, or limited, but a superficial way of applying it. 


£7 1 HjdxrUj^jjcjqJ. ( U~U-u.iJ+.A- 



224 


The Astrology of the Seers 


\ 



V 


The basis of Vedic psychology, therefore, is in directing us to the 
spiritual life. This means we must first become conscious of the soul 
within us. This is awakening to our inner Sun, the light of truth within us, 
which the real light of the world. It is to begin to see the universe within 
us, and our self behind the universe. This is to longer look to the outer 
world for our definition of who we are, but to go back to our internal light, 
our eternal nature. It is to question our identification with the body, senses, 
and mind, and to come to rest in our true nature as a conscious being, not 
an object or persona in the world. It is to reconnect with our soul's will in 
incarnation to grow in consciousness and unite with life. 

From this basic insight into our true nature and purpose, we must 
reorient our faculties and the domains of our life represented by the 
planets. We need to make them orbit the inner Sun of truth perception. 
This is the Yoga, the way of spiritual reintegration, inherent in astrology 
and its symbolism. We can practice this even if we do not use astrology 
or know our birth chart. It is a universal symbolism for the development 
of consciousness. We can meditate upon the qualities and meanings of the 
planets within us and reintegrate their forces within our minds. 

First, we must harmonize the Moon, the indicator of our receptivity 
in life, to the inner Sun. We must make it receptive to the Sun of truth and 
not the influences of the outer world. Tb do this, we must become 
conscious of our dependence upon the Divine, or cosmic intelligence, as 
the source of our being. We must leam to surrender to the Divine and to 
the presence of truth. We must realize the limitations of the mind, or 
conditioned consciousness, and not take its fluctuations for our true 
awareness. 


Then we must harmonize our Mars, the indicator of our energy and 
motivation. This is to direct our will towards spiritual practices, like 
service work. Yoga, mantra and meditation. It does not mean neglecting 
our duties in life, but using them to develop our skill in right action. It is 
to no longer seek power and achievement outwardly, but to open up to 
the flow of grace. This requires seeing through the manipulative structure 
of society and our own ego. It means doing our work in the best way, but 
not seeking any results — to become one with the process, rather than 
calculating what we are going to get out of it. 

Then we must bring into play our Mercury, our rational process, on 
a higher level. We must reorient our intelligence towards the knowledge 
of inner truth, rather than outer information. To do this, we must no longer 
believe in the reality of the known, the measurable and the quantifiable. 
We must see through the glamor of names and forms, and the fiction of 
numbers. We must be sensitive to the unique being in things which reflects 
the eternal. We must look to the unknown, the immeasurable — the 


?7#it/<rZcra.Zc.a/ Wh-mthS. 



Astrology and Psychology 


225 


quality of beauty and presence which is Divine. We must learn to think 
about things ourselves and come to the truth of them, rather than just to 
take in from the outside what other people have said. 

Then we must employ our Jupiter, our will to truth and growth in life. 
This is to seek expansion in the realm of consciousness, to unite our . 
life-energy with the cosmic life around us. It is to exist as a source of 
grace, beneficence and good will in life. It requires no longer seeing our j 
true good as expanding outwardly, but in surrendering and growing 
inwardly. Through this we become conscious of the good of all, and of 
our role in life to guide and help others along the path of light. 

Then we must harmonize our Venus, our devotion and affection. Thisi 
is to direct our love and creativity towards the unfoldment of the cosmic j 
wonder and joy. It is to see that the joy and beauty in things comes from/ 
the Divine, from consciousness or our own deepest Self. Joy does not 
belong to outer objects, but is merely reflected upon them by our attach¬ 
ment to them. This is to reclaim our own joy and contentment in life in 
being and consciousness. For it, life must become a form of worship, and 
all beauty must be recognized as a reflection of the spiritual heart. 

Then we m ust sea l the process with o ur Saturn, and give it a firmform 
and structure in o ur own daily activity. We need the consistency^ concen¬ 
tration and seriousness te_hring things to conclusion. This requires dedi¬ 
cation, calm, coolness, and the willingness to persistJ d the face of 
adyeisity — to greet even suffering or opposition as a friend. It r equ ires 
d etach ment, the capacity to be alone, and the ability to abide in stillness. 
This is a moment by moment awareness that does not overlook anything, 
but which remains at the essence. 

On this basis, we must confront again the hidden side of life and the 
psyche. It is not enough to clear things up on an outer or superficial layer, 
or even on an intermediate or deeper level. We must eradicate the seeds 
of falsehood from the deepest recesses of the mind. We must deal with 
the illusion power of the mind, the power of secret or hidden desires that 
comes through Rahu. We must face all the ghosts and demons of our 
subconscious, including the most elemental fears and desires upon which 
this world of ignorance has been built. We must understand all the habits, 
addictions and dependencies upon which our attachment to the world of 
appearances is based. 

Finally, we must deal with Ketu, our capa city to negate ourse lves. We 
must be careful not to sabotage ourselves in the process, or to turn back 
at the moment of victory. We must leam to ne gate ou rselves into the 
Divine, not into the u ndivine. W e need the utmost refinement of insight 
to pierce through the veil of time and illusion and come to rest in the eternal 


4 

T 


Jft-e£crLcna mjcjclL Wh.ujLIl.A- 






226 


The Astrology of the Seers 

light. We must follow the process of negation to the ultimate point of pure 
affirmation, seeing our Self in all beings, and all beings in our Self. 

In this way we return to the Sun of truth with the full manifestation 
of its powers, the integration of all its rays. 

While we can look at this process as an unfoldment in time, it is more 
an unfoldment of related qualities and will not follow the same line of 
development in each individual. It is like the tracing of a lotus from the 
central point. 

While this is largely a process that we must do for ourselves in our 
own minds, the remedial measures of astrology can be helpful tools to 
facilitate it. 

PSYCHOLOGICAL INDICATORS OF THE PLANETS 
The Sun 

The Sun in its higher level represents the true or Divine Self (Atma), 
just as on the lower level it represents the ego pr self-image. 

The main solar issue is identity. Our true identity is in consciousness 
as consciousness, not according to anything we may be identified with. 
Whatever we are identified with is a form of darkness. Our true nature is 
in the capacity to illumine things, not in.the things our mind illumines. 

Our true being is in the light. It is the light. It is by going within that 
we find the true light. Any external light we reflect, however great, creates 
darkness within us. 

The Moon 

The Moon represents the mind or consciousness generally (Manas), 
our feeling potential. 

The main lunar issue is peace and receptivity of the mind. This is 
achieved by surrender of the mind to the Divine, not by any mental activity 
or achievement, nor by surrender to any personal or social force. Our 
feeling sensitivity does not have to be denied or controlled. It merely needs 
to be directed in the right way, which is to be open to the presence in 
things, the Divine significance of each thing and each moment. 

Mars 

Mars represents the need of energy to transform itself. All energy is 
seeking a result. All life requires a direction and a goal. 

The issue of Mars energy is in directing our energy towards real 
transformation, towards arriving at an enduring achievement, the change 
of our own consciousness. We should not direct our energy towards a goal 
that is momentary. However, as long as we pursue primarily outer goals 


^7#if/<rZcm.Zc.a/ 'affuLthA. 



Astrology and Psychology 22 7 

of life of pleasure, wealth and status, this is what we are doing. The real 
transformative result is in the ability to draw our consciousness into the 
realm of oneness, not to gain some specific limited goal. 

Mercury 

Mercury represents the power of judgement (buddhi). It can create a 
net of information and speculation that traps the soul in the realm of the 
senses, or a ladder of values and principles through which the soul can 
ascend. 

The main issue of Mercury is right discrimination — whether we 
direct our reason towards organizing the impressions gathered from the 
senses; or towards discriminating truth from falsehood, the eternal from 
the transient. The latter changes Mercury into the God of wisdom. 

Jupiter 

Jupiter represents the law of our nature, our creative intelligence, and 
where we find our grace and beneficence in life. 

The main issue of Jupiter is aligning ourselves with the flow of Divine 
grace, the inner good, not the outer social good. It is in projecting a 
spiritual creativity that raises the world and ourselves, not just a material 
creativity that merely furthers outer powers and structures. It is to be 
beneficent in the presence of the Divine, not merely to be good to gain 
the admiration of others. It requires an optimism based on the knowledge 
of the eternal. 

Venus 

Venus represents our capacity to project love and beauty. Life comes 
from bliss and expresses bliss. We all want eternal happiness. 

The issue of Venus is how we define our happiness. We can define it 
outwardly as pleasure or inwardly as joy. We can seek it in transient things 
and thereby lose it, or we can seek it in the eternal and truly find it. True 
joy, however, only comes through suffering, while mere pleasure usually 
results in suffering. Because we do not see the end result and hold to what 
comes immediately, we are trapped in the illusion of outer happiness. The 
higher Venus energy arises thus through devotion, through defining our 
object of love as consciousness itself, the being in all beings. 

Saturn 

Saturn represents the power of our actions. If we do something 
regularly, it sets a certain force in motion. This power of our action goes 
with us from life to life. Our destiny is mirrored in our daily activity. 


^MjcLo4xftll€1xlL ( EJiial£IlA. 



228 The Astrology of the Seers 

The issue of Saturn is to create an ongoing conscious action towards 
improving our condition, and expanding the powers of truth and peace in 
life. It is to really put into practice what we have learned, not just to 
acknowledge it mentally. It is to have the patience and attention to bring 
things to conclusion and perfection. 

Rahu 

Rahu represents the illusion power of our unfulfilled desires. These 
operate at a subconscious level to distort our perception. This projection 
force of the mind is a powerful creative force that can also be used for 
creative meditation once we have gained control of it. Rahu is that 
challenge to master our secret wishes in life and to accept what is, the 
present, as the truth. 

Ketu 

Ketu represents the illusion power of our fears, and our attachment 
to what we have accomplished in life. These prevent us from positive 
action and change. Ketu shows the death we are in flight from in life. This 
death we fear is not really the physical death, but the death of the ego. It 
is only when we embrace death as a creative force, as a power of renewal 
and transformation, that we can go beyond its shadow. 





3 

YOGIC 


ASTROLOGY 


By the correspondence between the outer Sun and the inner Sun (the 
breath or life-force), we can find the key to the practice of Yoga in 
astrology. We can use our astrological chart to map out the subtle body 
through the seven chakras. The following information provides the foun¬ 
dation for this. It should be a study in itself. What is given here is just the 
basic information, not the complete system; yet it should at least provide 
us an entrance into what may be the most significant and spiritual 
application of astrology. 

PLANETS AND THE CHAKRAS 

The six chakras, or energy centers of the subtle (astral) body, reflect 
the seven planets. Just as we have the solar system in the outer world 
which regulates it, so we have our own inner solar system to guide the 
psyche. In fact, the outer solar system is a reflection of the inner. 

This sequence follows the orbits of planets around the Sun, from the 
Sun as the third eye or head center, with the Sun and Moon considered as 
one planet. 


6. Third Eye 

Moon and Sun 

Cancer 

Leo 

5. Throat Center 

Mercury 

Gemini 

Virgo 

4. Heart Center 

Venus 

Taurus 

Libra 

3. Navel Center 

Mars 

Aries 

Scorpio 

2. Sex Center 

Jupiter 

Pisces 

Sagittarius 

1. Root Center 

Saturn 

Aquarius 

Capricorn 


The Sun and Moon are well known in Yoga as the right and left eyes, 
and relate to the two petals of the third eye center (Ajna chakra). They 
show our basic consciousness as masculine and feminine, will and feeling, 
reason and emotion. Mercury is the well-known ruler of speech and 
intellect. Venus relates to love and the heart, to our affections. Mars rules 
the navel or fire center, to our energy, drives and passions. Jupiter rules 
the reproductive system and the creative energy, our potential to expand. 
Saturn rules elimination and support, and is the coarsest of the planetary 
influences, our potential to contract. 


^hjcLctIajtllc-€lL ( EJhjjjLIlA. 



230 


The Astrology of the Seers 


The energy (breath, Prana or Chi) moves up the spine following the 
six signs of the zodiac from Aquarius to Cancer. This governs inhalation 
and the development of lunar energy. It is cooling in nature, and builds 
up the tissues of the body. We call this “the lunar half of the zodiac.” The 
energy moving down the spine follows the six signs from Leo to Capric¬ 
orn. We call this “the solar half of the zodiac.” It governs exhalation and 
the development of solar energy and is warming in nature. It promotes 
functional activity. 

In this way we can draw up the birth chart relating the planets and the 
chakras, putting each planet in its appropriate place. 

We should note that the seventh or head center (Sahasrapadma or 
thousand petalled lotus) is outside this system. It transcends the six 
chakras and the movement of time. It is the state of the Sun beyond time, 
when the breath no longer rises or sets, the perpetual day of pure con¬ 
sciousness spoken of in the Vedas and Upanishads. “For him the Sun does 
not rise, nor does it set; it is a perpetual day, for one who knows the secret 
spiritual teaching.” — Chandogya Upanishad III. 10. 3. 

The ancient yogas, such as described in the Vedas and Upanishads, 
and suggested in the solar religions of the entire ancient world, aim at the 
resurrection of the Sun out of darkness, or the building up of the circle of 
the Sun. This is the process of taking the life-force and intelligence, our 
soul or inner Sun, out of the cycle of time and the breath and into the 
superconscious, breathless state. It can be approached in several ways. 
There are Yogic practices that direct the Prana or life-force through the 
different chakras in different combinations. There are meditation or 
knowledge teachings that build up the different aspects of direct percep¬ 
tion. There are devotional teachings that approach the chakras through 
different deities. 

CHAKRAS AND EXALTATION OF THE PLANETS 

This relationship between the signs and the chakras also explains the 
exaltation of the planets, the rationale for which is one of the great 
mysteries of astrology. It shows that even where astrology appears to bd 
a arbitrary, there is a deep and inner order and mathematical structure to 
it. There is probably nothing else in astrological literature which explains 
so clearly why planets are exalted in certain signs. 


, mxL<tLotll€1.(lL ShmjlLUA. 



Yogic Astrology 


231 




RULING 

LUNAR 

EXALTED 

SOLAR 

EXALTED 


CHAKRA 

PLANET 

SIGN 

PLANET 

SIGN 

PLANET 

6. 

Third Eye 

Moon/Sun 

Cancer 

Jupiter (2) 

Leo 


5. 

Throat 

Mercury 

Gemini 


Virgo 

Mercury (5) 

4. 

Heart 

Venus 

Taurus 

Moon (6) 

Libra 

Saturn (1) 

3. 

Navel 

Mars 

Aries 

Sun (6) 

Scorpio 

2. 

Sex 

Jupiter 

Pisces 

Venus (4) 

Sagittarius 


1 . 

Root 

Saturn 

Aquarius 


Capricorn 

Mars (3) 


Jupiter is exalted in Cancer, the sign of the Moon (lunar half of the 
zodiac), and the third eye. As the end of the lunar half of the zodiacal 
cycle, this is the point of maximum potential of the water energy, and the 
creative and anabolic processes of the body. It shows the spiritual side of 
Jupiter and its function as the guru or guide, the teacher of the solar system, 
our indicator of faith and law. It is the point of maximum aspiration in 
life. 

Mercury is exalted in Virgo, its own sign (solar half), and the throat 
chakra. The solar half relates more to expression, and it is here that the 
Mercury energy is most essential. This is the place of speech. It is also 
our place of greatest vulnerability, and shows how we take in and release 
things through the mouth. 

The Moon is exalted in Taurus, the sign of Venus (lunar half), and the 
heart. The Moon’s connection with the heart is well-known. This is the 
place of greatest receptivity and openness. 

Saturn is exalted in Libra, the sign of Venus (solar half), and the heart. 
Here Saturn represents the higher principles of justice, order and detach¬ 
ment, which are necessary in using our heart energy in the right way, 
without attachment or bias. 

The Sun is exalted in Aries, the sign of Mars (lunar half), and the 
navel center or solar plexus, well-known as a site of solar and fire energy. 
The solar energy of the head must be integrated with the vital will here. 

.Venus is exalted in Pisces, the sign of Jupiter (lunar half), and the sex 
center. This explains the connection of Venus with sex. It shows the need 
to keep our creative energy in harmony with love and aspiration. 

Mars is exalted in Capricorn, the sign of Saturn (solar half), and the 
root center. As the end of the solar half of the zodiacal cycle is the point 
of maximum potential of expression of the fire energy. It is here, cn the 
most outer level of our being, that we need energy to work and accomplish 
things. 

For the system of exaltation, the Sun and the Moon are located in the 
center — the navel and heart chakras — along with Saturn, the planet 
whose signs are opposite them in the zodiac. Above them, in the throat 
and third eye, are Mercury and Jupiter, also opposite each other in the 


^7#it/<rZcm.Zc.a/ ( EJhjjjLIlA. 


252 


The Astrology of the Seers 


zodiac in terms of signs. Below them, in the sex and root centers, are Venus 
and Mars, also opposite each other in terms of the zodiac. 

Jupiter and Mercury, the two planets representing the mind in its 
abstract and concrete, general and specific function, are above, where they 
should be for their best functioning. The two planets (considering the Sun 
and Moon as one planet), the Sun-Satum, are in the center, representing 
the basic duality of self and not-self, or Spirit and Matter. Below are the 
two planets representing the emotional, vital and sensual nature, Venus 
and Mars, where they have their proper place. 

The numbers in parenthises with the exalted planet, refer to the 
chakras the planets rule in the order of chakra-sign rulership. We can also 
view this according to the standard planetary numerology of the days of 
the week. Jupiter — 5, the Moon — 2, the Sun — 1 and Venus — 6 go 
on the lunar side of the cycle. Mercury — 4, Saturn — 7 and Mars — 3 
on the solar side. Both side totals equal 14. From this cycle, we may 
assume that Jupiter also functions well in Gemini, Mercury in Leo, Saturn 
in Scorpio, Venus in Aquarius, and Mars in Sagittarius. 

We see that the exaltation cycle reflects the Sun ruling the solar plexus 
rather than the head. This leads one to believe that the exaltation status of 
the planets reflects their functions in the vital or lower astral, whereas the 
ordinary sign rulership reflects their action in the mental or higher astral 
plane. 

The exaltation status is a center-oriented symbolism. The sign ruling 
status is a top-oriented symbolism. Yet the exaltation order reflects how 
the planets function once their energy is integrated properly into our lower 
nature. The solar energy from the head needs to be integrated with the 
vital energy in our navel or fire center (Aries). The martial energy of the 
navel center needs to be made concrete in action in the root center 
(Capricorn). The lunar receptive mind from the head needs to be inte¬ 
grated into the love energy in the heart (Taurus). The venusian love energy 
in the heart needs to be integrated into the jupiterian creative energy in 
the sex center (Pisces). The jupiterian creative energy in the sex center 
needs to be brought to the top of the head (Cancer). The satumian 
detaching or negating energy in the root center needs to be brought up 
into the heart (Libra). Mercury, or the throat chakra energy, needs to be 
stabilized where it is (Virgo). 

CHAKRAS AND THE HOUSES 

In a similar way we can draw up a house chart relative to the chakras. 
We simply use the houses that the signs correspond to. The Fourth and 
Fifth houses (like the fourth and fifth signs Cancer and Leo) represent the 
third eye; the Third and Sixth (like the third and sixth signs Gemini and 


£ 7 'Mxixrlxrn£cjtLL Wh-Ujtlt-A. 



Yogic Astrology 233 

Virgo) relate to the throat center; the Second and Seventh (like Taurus and 
Libra), the heart; the First and Eighth (like Aries and Scorpio), the solar 
plexus; the Ninth and TWelfth (like Sagittarius and Pisces), the sex center; 
and the Tenth and Eleventh (like Capricorn and Aquarius), the root center. 





ASCENDING 

DESCENDING 

HOUSE 

SIGN 

RULER 

(LUNAR) 

(SOLAR) 

First 

Aries 

Mars 

Navel Center 


Second 

Thurus 

Venus 

Heart Center 


Third 

Gemini 

Mercury 

Throat Center 


Fourth 

Cancer 

Moon 

Third Eye 


Fifth 

Leo 

Sun 


Third Eye 

Sixth 

Virgo 

Mercury 


Throat Center 

Seventh 

Libra 

Venus 


Heart Center 

Eighth 

Scorpio 

Mars 


Navel Center 

Ninth 

Sagittarius 

Jupiter 


Sex Center 

Tenth 

Capricorn 

Saturn 


Root Center 

Eleventh 

Aquarius 

Saturn 

Root Center 


TVelfth 

Pisces 

Jupiter 

Sex Center 



Just as the regular sign chart rules the character and the houses our 
activities in life, so does the sign-chakra chart show the character of the 
soul and the house-chakra chart how it functions in life. 

NOTE: This set of correspondences according to the chakras differs 
slightly from the usual order, particularly in regard to rulership of the 
elements. This is because it is working on a more subtle level. 


^7#it/<rZcra.Zc.a/ 



Saturn 



“Dressed in blue, dark blue in color, 
who has four arms, the son of the Sun, who 
appears fearful, whose nature is peaceful, 
whose vehicle is an ox, who moves slow, 
who carries a trident, bow and mace in his 
hands, with a blue sapphire crest jewel on 
his head, making the gesture that gives 
boons, may Divine Saturn ever grant us his 
grace. ” 

^MjdxrtxrvlcjaJL ^ThmUlA. 



4 

TREATMENT METHODS IN ASTROLOGY 
BALANCING INFLUENCES OF THE PLANETS 


Like any other science, astrology has its technology. It has its theo- 
retical knowledge and its practical application. Just as science uncovers 
new forms of energy in the outer world, like electric or nuclear forces, j 
astrology and Yogic sciences can connect us with new forms of energy in j 
the mind and deeper consciousness. The purpose of astrology is not just 
to give us a broader knowledge of ourselves. It is also to provide us tools 
and methods to access the deeper layers of our nature and to better deal 
with the forces of our subtle environment. This technology is not a matter / 
of equipment or machines, but of ways of harnessing our energies to / 
improve our relationship with the cosmos and the cosmic forces within j 
us. It employs factors in the world around us, but is a spiritual and occult j 
rather than materialistic technology. 

Western astrology has evolved along intellectual and scientific lines 
relative to the development of the entire culture. It has been more 
concerned with theory than with practice. It lacks any consistently defined 
technique for balancing or adjusting planetary influences. Earlier Western 
astrology during the Middle Ages had such methods, with the uses of 
gems, metals, herbs, and incantations to deal with astrological influences. 
These, along with the other occult and mystical sciences of medieval 
Europe, were dismissed and discarded as unscientific. Like medieval 
science all over the world, European astrology often degenerated into 
confusion, corruption and superstition, but it still had a core of truth to it 
which is still useful today. 

It is not that such methods are unscientific, but that they deal with a 
different and more inward domain of nature. Such methods were better 
preserved in India, the land of Yoga, religion and spiritual philosophy. In 
Vedic astrology, the use of gems, colors, mantras, deities, rituals, and other 
means of adjusting our subtle environment have always been part of the 
science of consciousness in the teachings of Yoga. As modem science 
once more discovers the effect of these subtle energies, for example, the 
value of meditation to improve the function of the brain, the scientific 
basis of astrology and astrological treatment methods will return. This, 
however, requires looking beyond the physical, material, or chemical 



236 


The Astrology of the Seers 


aspect of nature, and seeing an energy of life, intelligence and conscious¬ 
ness behind the workings of the cosmos, which organizes time and space 
according to a higher will and intention. 

Today most Western astrologers use the tools of modem psychology 
to deal with their clients — largely different forms of analysis. These 
mainly come from the more liberal or spiritually oriented psychologies 
like the Jungian, as J ung himself used astrology . They explore the personal 
and emotional issues of their clients, using the birth chart as a kind of key 
to the unc onscious. In this way, they try to help clients arrive at a greater 
clarity aSouFthefnselves, their needs and their actions. They usually direct 
them toward some personal or creative fulfillment, not necessarily to any 
higher consciousness. The changes they suggest are mainly those of 
attitude and life-style. They seldom involve any conscious methods to 
improve their subtle or psychic environment. 

Western astrologers generally have few practical methods, though 
some of the older methods, like the use of gems and herbs to balance 
planetary influences, are being reintroduced. Even here, there is much 
variation on how these means are interpreted and applied. Most of the 
knowledge left over from the Middle Ages has been discarded. Often each 
astrologer develops his or her own system. Some Western astrologers use 
occult and spiritual methods, like attunement with various masters or with 
the seven rays, or opening up past life influences. These approaches derive 
mainly from Theosophy or from Alice Bailey, who in turn based their 
work on the teachings of the Hindu and Buddhist sages, modifying them 
and modernizing them. Other astrologers may try to apply modem nutri¬ 
tion, western herbology, or macrobiotics to the birth chart for medical 
treatment While it is a highly creative field, many of these approaches 
may not stand the test of time, though they may work well for one 
practitioner or another. Some of these methods, however, will be found 
useful and much of Vedic astrology may be helpful in directing them in 
the right way. 

A typical modem astrological reading may not give the client any¬ 
thing to do about their planetary influences other than to be aware of them 
— to try to understand them in their mind or in terms of their personal 
life. Hence, a client may leave feeling helpless before the forces of their 
life, warned as to a danger, but not given any practical means of averting 
it. 

Vedic astrology, on the other hand, is as much concerned with 
directing the client how to balance their planetary influences as it is with 
informing them as to what these influences may be. This sometimes takes 
the greater part of the reading. Like a good doctor, they may be more 
interested in telling their clients what they can do to improve their 





Treatment Methods: Balancing Influences of the Planets 237 

condition, rather than simply notifying them what it is. They provide a 
prescription of things to do, not just a diagnosis of the condition. In this 
regard, the true astrologer is like a doctor of the psyche. He should know 
how to deal with the subtle energies of life on various levels. 

Who we look up to as our healers is often the measure of who we are. 
That we look up to mere healers of the physical body shows that the body 
is where we fmd our greatest value in life. It is not a good comment on 
how much we are connected to our souls. In fact, most of our modem 
thinkers not only consider astrology to be untrue, they would find an 
astrological treatment method for physical, psychological, or spiritual 
issues to be presumptuous, if not dangerous. Yet if all the cosmos is linked 
together, it would be dangerous to think otherwise. How can we find 
harmony and balance if we do not even acknowledge our connection with 
the universe itself? This is not just a matter of recognizing how chemical 
and atomic forces affect us. It is a matter of opening up to the power of 
intelligence behind the universe, which is far more than mere intellect can 
comprehend. Astrology can be one of our links to this cosmic intelligence i 
and its healing and transformative power. It is one of the prime and natural 
gateways to the soul, both in its individual and cosmic aspects. 

Vedic astrology has a practical base, and its concern is to help us 
implement a life regime in harmony with the stars. From its point of view, 
we cannot live in harmony with the cosmos by maintaining our usual 
life-style or enhancing it with some theoretical knowledge. We need al 
practical daily way of attunement with the cosmos and its influences. Such 1 
methods are not only astrological but religious and spiritual. They entail 
using the subtle forces around us, like gems and colors, and more internal | 
methods of ritual, mantra and meditation. If we are not doing such things;, 
on a daily basis, our knowledge or study of astrology may not be able toJ 
change our lives. 

REMEDIAL MEASURES IN ASTROLOGY 

There are complex ways of determining which planets are to be 
strengthened in a chart. However, the first basic principle is simple —a 
planet should generally be strengthened if it is weak. The caution is that 
we should be careful in strengthening natural malefic planets (like Satum), 
even when they are weak. It is benefics when weak that are safe to^ 
strengthen. 

We must gauge the power and effect of planets both naturally and 
temporally, as per our discussion of malefic and benefic planets and house 
rulership. Natural benefics are Jupiter, Venus, the Moon when bright, and 
Mercury when not under malefic aspect. Temporally, they are the lords of 
benefic houses from the Ascendant, like the First, Fifth and Ninth (see 


^7#if/<rZtm.Zc.a/ €FfLiL.£hS. 



238 


The Astrology of the Seers 



table p. 165). Hence, we can strengthen natural malefics when weak, if 
they are temporal benefics — like Saturn for Libra Ascendant, or Mars 
for Cancer and Leo Ascendants. 

Besides strengthening weak planets, it is often helpful to strengthen 
those planets which rule the Ascendant or the Ninth house, even when not 
weak. They can help increase the positive energy in the chart, as they are 
usually the prime benefics within it A planet that is well-placed and 
benefic can be strengthened, and it will not be harmful; but this may not 
be as helpful as to strengthen those benefics which are weak or ill-placed. 
Some astrologers strengthen both the weakest and the strongest planet in 
the chart, as long as neither one is malefic. 

Different Vedic astrologers have variant opinions on these issues, 
particularly the use of gems. As usual, there is no one way to look at things, 
and we should try to get as broad a perspective as we can. 

The following astrological remedial measures do not require Vedic 
astrology to apply them, though we have given some of the indications 
for this. We can apply them by recognizing the conditions in our life and 
character that may indicate weakness of these planets. In India, many 
palmists prescribe such remedies for the planets, based only on looking 
at the hand. The birth chart is not the only way to see the planetary forces 
in our lives. A good astrologer can recognize planetarv influences just by 


looking at a person or talking to them. 

In addition, we may be able to apply these methods to a Western 
astrological chart (though we cannot expect to do it in a mechanical 
* fashion). It requires that we have a workable system of determining the 
strength and weakness, benefic and malefic natures of planets. For exam¬ 
ple, if we can ascertain through Western astrology, or through our own 
observation, that Mercury is weak in a person, then we can safely apply 
the measures to strengthen it. 

We should exercise some scrutiny in using these astrological treat¬ 
ment methods, however. For example, many of the indications of a weak 
< Sun and a weak Mars are similar, as they both indicate low fire and a weak 
j will. The difference is that a weak Sun usually gives a poor self-image, 
/ whereas a weak Mars creates lack of motivation and poor work ability, 
v Hence, if we can get a Vedic astrological reading, or at least look at our 
Vedic chart, it can be very helpful for determining which of these measures 
are appropriate. 

, In this regard, the use of substances like gems or herbs can be more 
dangerous than the use of mantra or meditation. In fact, we often use 
mantra and meditation to ward off the planetary influences which may be 
afflicting us, like a too strong Saturn, Rahu, or Mars. Yet we do not 
^strengthen these planets with gems or herbs under such conditions. It is 


^hjcUj-Iajtllc-€lL 



Treatment Methods: Balancing Influences of the Planets 239 

generally a good thing for all of us to acknowledge and propitiate the 
planets occasionally through mantra, meditation, or ritual, as we all have 
to work through their forces. 

Yantras (inscribed geometrical designs) for the planets are useful like 
gems but don’t have the side-effects, as like mantra they are of a propitiaty 
nature. They can be used by everyone, though it is more helpful to use the 
yantras of the planets that are afflicting us, or those whose properties we 
wish to strengthen. For the use of yantras and spiritual remedial measures 
see Part HI, Chapter 5: Worship and Meditation on the Planets. 

In the use of gems, the quality of the gem is one factor, the other factor | 
is how we purify and energize it. Gems should be of good quality and 
without flaws. Yet gems may function to strengthen either the higher or j' 
the lower influences of the planets, depending upon how we use them. A | 
gem for Venus, for example, may just serve to increase emotional vulner- 1 
ability and attachment, or merely give us more pleasure or wealth in life 
if we use it on a lower level. For it to increase love and creativity (the 
higher powers of Venus), we must approach it with some spiritual inten¬ 
tion, or have a highly spiritual nature to begin with. Hence, merely to use 
gems does not itself guarantee that they will improve our condition 
spiritually. Used wrongly, they can confuse or disturb us on a subtle astral j 
level. For this reason, gems should be cleared and empowered with J 
mantras or other spiritual influences and intentions. 

Gems are usuall y worn on the finger belong ingjo th e plane t. These 
are the index finger — Jupiter, the middle finger — Saturn, the ring finger 
— the Sun, and the little finger — Mercury. The gems for the other 
planets can be worn on the fingers of planets that they are friends with, 
naturally or temporally. Gems should be set so as to touch the skin (open 
at the bottom). 

Please note that planets are not always weak in all respects of their 
influence. A person may have a weak Sun in terms of career, as in failure 
to achieve any independence or recognition, but not necessarily have a 
weak Sun in terms of health (they may not have a weak heart). We have 
combined these indications together below, but this does not mean that 
they always occur together. 

Malefics, like Saturn, Mars, Rahu and Ketu, create difficulties both 1 
when they are too strong and when they are too weak. When they are too > 
strong, they usually weaken other planets, and it is these other planets that | 
we must strengthen with the appropriate measures. Yet these two condi- j 
tions may be related. Malefics may spoil other planets even when they are { 
weak. Hence under them the weak and deranged aspects of their energy ) 
tend to go together. Generally, when we strengthen a weak malefic, we ' 
should strengthen a friendly benefic as well. If we strengthen Saturn, for 1 



£7 'MxixrlxFTLMjcjtiJ. < EJhjjjLIlA. 



240 ‘ The Astrology of the Seers 

example, it is good to strengthen Venus or Mercury. This helps bring out 
the positive side of the naturally malefic planet. 

THE SUN 

Signs of a Weak Sun in the Chart 

Indications are a lack of self-confidence, self-esteem or self-respect 
— a general low self-worth. There will be lack of strength of will and 
courage, along with fear of others. The individual may lack drive and 
motivation, and may be dependent upon others emotionally and materi¬ 
ally. They will look to others (usually family and friends), for their sense 
of identity, and will find it difficult to do things on their own. They will 
have a poor self-image, and look to others to define who they are. They 
are usually not very successful in life, or their success will not make them 
feel good about themselves. The individual may be sluggish, slow, dull 
or lethargic. The father of the person usually does not have a good fate in 
life either. 

On the physical level, the individual may suffer from low energy, 
pallor, anemia, cold extremities, weak digestion, poor appetite, weak or 
slow pulse, weak heart, and poor circulation. There may be edema, 
accumulation of water and phlegm, and general hypofunction of the 
organs and nervous system. The eyesight may be poor. There may be 
arthritis and weakness of the bones. The resistance will be low, particu¬ 
larly to cold and damp conditions. 

Astrological Factors 

A weak Sun is evidenced by the Sun being in its debility (Libra), or 
in an inimical sign (like those of Saturn); in difficult houses (like the Sixth, 
Eighth and Twelfth); or under malefic aspect (like those of Saturn, Rahu 
or Ketu). Ketu’s aspect or close conjunction is particularly difficult. 

The Sun is usually a benefic planet for Aries, Leo, Scorpio, and 
Sagittarius Ascendants. For them, the positive qualities of the Sun like 
leadership, independence, intelligence and insight can be enhanced by 
these same measures, even if the Sun is not weak. 

Gems 

The main gemstone for the Sun is a ruby. It should be a minimum of 
two carats in size. It should be set in gold of fourteen carats or more, and 
worn on the ring finger of the right hand. It should be a good quality, 
without flaws and transparent. 


^M.cLcrl^l^a.L < EJiui4JlA. 



Treatment Methods: Balancing Influences of the Planets 241 

As a substitute, garnet can be used, but it should be of at least three 
carats in size, preferably five. A large garnet pendant, or strand of garnet, 
can be worn around the neck. 

These gems should be put on first on a Sunday, preferably at the rising 
of the Sun, particularly when the Sun is strong, as when in its own sign 
or exalted (also good is in Sagittarius). 

When to be Careful Wearing a Gem for the Sun 

Gems for the Sun should usually not be worn if the individual suffers 
from fever, bleeding, ulcers, hypertension, or infectious diseases (high 
Pitta). Psychological indications are excess ambition, seeking of power, 
a dominating nature, a strong ego, pride, or vanity. 

Astrological factors are when the Sun is the lord of malefic houses 
(like the Third, Sixth and Eleventh). We should be careful wearing gems ’ 
for the Sun when benefic planets in the chart, like the Moon, Venus, 
Mercury, or Jupiter are in combust (close conjunction), or in strong aspect 
(opposition) to it. 

Colors 

One should meditate on the red or gold solar orb as residing in the 
heart. One should use light, bright, clear, transparent, warm colors — 
generally red, yellow, gold, and orange — avoiding dark colors, places 
and environments; particularly cloudy colors, grays, and blacks. 

Herbs 

Solar energy is increased by taking spicy and fiery herbs, like cay¬ 
enne, black pepper, dry ginger, long pepper, cardamom, saffron, calamus, 
bayberry, and cinnamon (specifically the Ayurvedic formula THkatu). 
Calamus is best for the sattvic side of solar energy in the mind. 

Aromatic oils and fragrances for the Sun are camphor, cinnamon, 
eucalyptus, saffron — most warm and stimulating oils. 

Mantras 

There are many mantras for the Sun, as the Sun has many names like 
Surya, Savitar, Aditya, Ravi, Mitra, Varuna, Aryaman, Pushan, Indra, 
Agni, and so on. The main name mantra is: OM SURYAYA NAMAHA. Others 
are OM SAVITRE NAMAHA; OM ADITYAYA NAMAHA; OM RAVAYE 
NAMAHA. The main bija (seed) mantra is: OM SUM (pronounced soom). 
These mantras should be repeated at least 108 times a week, preferably 
on a Sunday, during the day (as at dawn, noon or sunset). 

Another good seed mantra for the Sun is RAM (pronounced rahm), 
the name of the avatar Rama. This increases our connection with the 


^M-cLerluu.l^a.L 'Wh.ujLIl.A- 



242 


The Astrology of the Seers 

Divine light generally. OM itself is said in the Vedas and Upanishads to 
be the sound of the Sun. The Sun is the essence of all vowels. 

Deities 

The Sun relates to the Divine Father. In the Hindu religion, this is 
Shiva, Mahadeva, the great God. Yet the Sun represents the Divine 
presence generally, and whatever form of the Divine we worship can be 
used for this purpose. The second great Hindu form of the Divine, Vishnu, 
is also worshipped as the Sun, representing more the immanent or benefic 
side of solar energy. 

The Sun is also the Divine Son. The great avatars are sons of the Sun. 
Christ follows in this line as well, with his birth at the winter solstice (the 
Sun reborn), as do Rama, Krishna and Buddha. 

Yoga 

Usually the individual will do well in practicing meditation and the 
Yoga of knowledge to connect to the higher Self within. 

The main thing is to establish a sense of self-identity according to our 
inner nature as pure consciousness. We must leam to discriminate between 
the lower self and the higher Self. We should trace the origin of the “I 
thought” to the Divine light within the heart. 

Life-Style 

The individual should cultivate independence and courage. They 
should challenge their fears. They should bring the light into all the dark 
comers of their mind. They should leam to appear in public alone and be 
able to spend time alone. They should strive to take more initiative, and 
a leadership role in life. They should spend time outdoors in the Sun, along 
with Sun bathing twenty minutes or more a day. 

They should rise early in the morning and greet the Sun, preferably 
with some prayer or chant to the Divine at dawn, noon and sunset. 

THE MOON 

Signs of a Weak Moon in the Chart 

Signs of a weak Moon include ungroundedness, emotional instability, 
anxiety, inability to relate to other people, fear of intimacy, lack of 
friendliness, and weak emotions. The individual will lack self-content¬ 
ment, and find it difficult to stand the stress and strain of human contact. 
There will be emotional moodiness, depression and negativity. The mind 
may be cloudy, dull or disturbed. The mother may also suffer, or not 
prosper in life. 


£7 ^HxjxrlxralcjaJ. 



Treatment Methods: Balancing Influences of the Planets 243 

Physical factors include anemia, low body fluids, possible dehydra¬ 
tion, lack of body weight, dry skin, constipation, and weak lungs and 
kidneys. There will be difficulty withstanding dryness and heat. For 
women, there may be infertility and menstrual difficulties. 

Astrological Factors 

The Moon is weak when waning, particularly when new; when in its 
fall (in Scorpio); when aspected by malefic planets (like Saturn, Rahu, 
Ketu, or Mars); or when placed in difficult houses (like the Sixth, Eighth 
or Twelfth). The aspects of Rahu and Saturn are the most difficult, 
particularly if not compensated by an aspect from Jupiter or Jupiter’s 
location in an angle from the Moon. 

The Moon is generally a benefic planet, but specifically so for Cancer, 
Scorpio and Pisces Ascendants. For these Ascendants, regimes for the 
Moon can increase its positive powers of emotional strength, friendliness 
and love. 

Gems 

Best for the Moon is a pearl. It should be of at least two carats in size, 
set in silver, and worn on the ring finger of the left (or right) hand. Natural 
pearls are preferable. Cultured pearls can be used as substitutes, as can 
moonstone, but these should be larger in size, three or five carats, or worn 
as large pendants or strands. 

Such gems should be put on first on a Monday, when the Moon is 
waxing, preferably when full, and in good signs like Taurus, Cancer, 
Pisces, or in friendly signs, and not conjunct or strongly aspected by 
malefics. 

When to be Careful Wearing a Gem for the Moon 

Gems for the Moon should not usually be worn when there is phlegm, 
edema, congestion, or when overweight (high Kapha). Psychological 
factors are strong emotions, sentimentality, greed, attachment, or excess 
involvement with family or society. 

Astrological factors are the Moon is a malefic lord (lord of houses 
like the Third, Sixth and Eighth, as for Taurus, Aquarius or Sagittarius 
Ascendants). When such a malefic lord, the Moon can cause problems 
even when full. 

Colors 

The best color for the Moon is white. White shades of other colors 
can be helpful, like white shades of blue and green, or pink; but the shades 
should also be somewhat bright. Dark and cloudy colors should be 


/ 

JvLclxrlxrn. lcjclL ( UhjjjU±A. 



2 44 The Astrology of the Seers 

avoided, particularly gray and black, as well as too much red or fiery 
colors. Overly bright or very transparent colors should also not be used. 

Herbs 

Good herbs for the Moon are demulcent and tonic herbs like marsh¬ 
mallow, slippery elm, comfrey root, Solomon’s seal, shatavari, white 
musali, bala, and rehmannia, particularly taken in milk decoctions. 

Fragrances of white flowers like jasmine, gardenia, lotus, and lily are 
good, as is sandalwood oil. These can be applied to the heart or to the third 
eye. 

Mantras 

The main name mantra is OM SOMAYA NAMAHA. Also used is 
Chandra, hence, OM CHANDRAYA NAMAHA. The seed mantra is SOM 
(pronounced as spelled). CHAM (pronounced chum) can also be used, as 
can SHRIM (shreem), the main mantra of the Goddess. These mantras 
should be repeated on Mondays, or in the evening, particularly around the 
time of the full Moon. 

Deities 

The Moon relates to the Goddess, to the cosmic feminine generally, 
and to the Divine Mother. She is the great Goddess, Mahadevi, the consort 
of Shiva as Mahashakti. She has many forms in different spiritual tradi¬ 
tions like Parvati, Lakshmi, Tara, Kwan Yin, Isis, and the Virgin Mary. 
We should meditate upon the Goddess in our hearts, as within the lunar 
orb (in the full Moon), or as wearing the crescent Moon on her head, 
particularly on the day of the full Moon. 

Yoga 

Lunar energy is usually increased by devotional practices (Bhakti 
Yoga). We should meditate upon a form of the Divine, particularly of the 
Goddess. We should strive to develop more peace, faith, receptivity, 
openness, and surrender to the Divine or truth. Usually, lunar energy allies 
us with a spiritual or religious tradition or group, but we should apply our 
faith with openness’and truth, not with emotional attachment. 

Life-Style 

Lunar energy is increased by an atmosphere of peace, faith, devotion, 
caring, and nurturing. It may help to be part of some service work. The 
individual should place themselves under a maternal or supportive envi¬ 
ronment of family and friends. They should also consider how they can 


^hjcLctIajtllc-€lL ( EJh*i£JlA. 



Treatment Methods: Balancing Influences of the Planets 245 

help others in a nurturing way. They should mingle with others and open 
their hearts to a community. 

MARS 

Signs of a Weak Mars in the Chart 

Signs of a weak Mars are mainly lack of energy and motivation, and 
inability to do work. The individual may find it difficult to stand up for 
himself, be fearful, or dominated by others. They may not know how to 
express anger, or to see through the motivations of other people. They 
may be overly passive, easily controlled, and may be abused, even 
physically. 

Physically, the immune system will be weak, with low appetite, poor 
absorption, low body weight, weak muscles, weak liver and small intes¬ 
tine, or possible hemorrhoids. There may be an additional tendency 
toward bleeding or injuries, with slow healing of wounds or sores and 
possible anemia. For the male, there may be lack of sexual vitality. 

Astrological Factors 

Mars is weak when in its fall (Cancer); when aspected by malefics 
(like Saturn and Rahu); when combust; and when in difficult houses for 
it (the Fifth, Eighth, Ninth and Twelfth). 

Mars is generally a benefic planet for Cancer, Leo, Sagittarius, and 
Pisces Ascendants, and is usually good for Aries and Scorpio as well. Here 
its positive qualities like energy and insight can be improved, even if it is 
not weak. 

Gems 

The main gem for Mars is a red coral. It should be at least three carats 
in size, set in silver, or a combination of gold and copper, and worn on 
the index or ring finger of the right hand. As it is a common and not too 
expensive gemstone, no substitutes are required; though camelian can be 
used in this respect (generally as a large pendant). Pink coral can also be 
used, and has a more balancing or subduing, but less strengthening affect 
on Mars energy than the red. 

Such gems should be put on first on a Tuesday, when the Moon is 
waxing, preferably when Mars is in its own sign or exalted. Friendly signs, 
particularly those of Jupiter, are also good. 

When to be Careful Wearing a Gem for Mars 

Gems for Mars should not be worn when there is fever, infection, 
bleeding, ulcers, or excessive sexual drive (high Pitta). Psychological 


^7#Lt/<rZtm.Zc.a/ 



246 


The Astrology of the Seers 


factors are anger, conflict, argument, too willful or impulsive a character, 
an aggressive, wrathful or martial disposition. 

Astrological factors are Mars as a malefic lord (particularly for 
Gemini and Virgo Ascendants), or Mars in conjunction with benefics we 
may want to strengthen (like the Moon, Mercury and Venus). Generally 
we should avoid gems for Mars if it is in the Seventh house, or if it is 
strongly disposed in angles. 

Colors 

Mars energy is increased by the use of red and fiery colors, but in 
darker hues or more opaque tones, and also by the wearing of pure or jet 
black. Dark colors (grays and browns), cool colors (blues and greens), and 
very transparent bright colors like yellow should be avoided. 

Herbs 

Most of the spices that are good for the Sun work well for Mars (like 
cinnamon, saffron, cayenne, or black pepper), but combined with tonics 
like ginseng, astragalus, ashwagandha, guggul, or myrrh. Tlirmeric, garlic, 
onions, and asafoetida can be very good (particularly the Ayurvedic 
formula Hingashtak). When Mars is strong, however, we need bitter herbs 
like aloe, gentian, golden seal, and echinacea. 

Mantras 

The name mantra for Mars is OM KUJAYA NAMAHA. The seed mantra 
for Mars is OM KUM (with the “u” pronounced as in “put”). Mars has other 
names like Angaraka and Mangala. Hence we tan also use OM AM 
(pronounced urn) or OM ANGARAKAYA NAMAHA, and OM MAM or OM 
MANGALAYA NAMAHA, OM AM and OM MAM (pronouned mum). Also 
useful is the mantra for fire, OM RAM (pronounced like rum). We should 
meditate upon this in the solar plexus or navel chakra. 

Deities 

Mars relates to the war God, the Divine Warrior, called Skanda, 
Kartikeyya or Subrahmanya, the second son of Shiva and Parvati. He is 
the leader of the heavenly hosts like the Archangel Michael. The Greek 
God Ares and the Roman God Mars may be useful here also (though the 
ancient rituals for them are no longer available as are those for the Hindu 
Gods). 

Yoga 

Mars is increased by the Yogas of knowledge and technique, by 
practices which aim at the development of energy and insight. Mars types 


£7 1 HjdxrUj^aXcjqJ- 



Treatment Methods: Balancing Influences of the Planets 247 

like to work on themselves in a practical way, through physical practices, 
or through mental methods like visualization and ritual. On a lower level, 
the martial arts can be used to strengthen Mars energy; yet such methods 
may cater to a negative Mars influence and bring about a seeking of power 
or prestige for the ego. 

Life-Style 

To increase Mars energy, one should learn to be more aggressive, 
daring, active, expressive, and energetic. Usually, some form of physical 
activity should be taken up, and the body should be strengthened. There 
should be a definite discipline in life physically, emotionally, and spiri¬ 
tually, with the development and the pursuit of right goals in life. How¬ 
ever, it should not be applied harshly, but with intelligence and 
adaptability. 

MERCURY 
Signs of Weakness 

Signs of a weak Mercury are lack of intelligence, poor communication 
skills, speech defects, weak memory, inability to calculate, immaturity, 
childishness, foolishness, lack of self control, addictions, and dependen¬ 
cies. The individual may be slow, dull, daydreaming, or irrational. The 
mind may be out of control. 

Physical factors are weakness of the nervous system, nerve pain, 
tremors, anxiety, insomnia, palpitations, dry or itchy skin, hypersensitiv¬ 
ity of the senses, nervous indigestion, and allergies. The lungs and heart 
may be weak. The individual will easily suffer from pain and anxiety. 

Astrological Factors 

Mercury is weakened by aspects from malefics (like Saturn, Rahu, 
Ketu, the Sun, and Mars); by being in its fall (Pisces); and by residency 
in difficult houses (the Sixth, Eighth and Twelfth). 

Mercuty is a generally benefic planet for Taurus, Gemini, Virgo, 
Libra, Capricorn, and Aquarius Ascendants. For such charts, we can apply 
the remedies for Mercury to increase the higher Mercury qualities like 
discrimination, intelligence and power of communication. 

Gems 

The main gem for Mercury is an emerald. It should be at least one 
and half carats in size, set in gold, and worn on the middle finger of the 
right or left hands. Sometimes it is recommended to be worn on the little 
finger, as it is the finger of Mercury. 


£7 } HjdxrlxrajjcjfiL < EJiwj£JlA. 



248 The Astrology of the Seers 

Substitutes are peridot, jade, green zircon, or green tourmaline. Such 
gems can also be worn as pendants or strands, hanging down to the region 
of the neck. As rings, they should be at least three carats in size; as 
pendants, five. 

They should be put on first on a Wednesday, when the Moon is 
waxing, and preferably when Mercury is strong, in friendly signs, its own 
sign or exalted. 

When Not to Wear a Gem for Mercury 

Gems for Mercury are relatively safe, harmonious and balanced. They 
have the Mutable nature of Mercury, however, and so we should be careful 
wearing gems for Mercury with those of malefics like Saturn, Mars or the 
Sun, as they may amplify their malefic influences. We must be careful 
what influences these gems may pick up, or may have had when we first 
got them. 

Astrological factors are Mercury as a malefic lord, particularly for 
Aries or Scorpio Ascendant, especially when aligned with Saturn or Rahu. 

Colors 

Mercury is increased by emerald or green color. Hence, it is good to 
spend time in a lush natural environment. Sitting under a green light can 
be helpful. Reds and oranges should be avoided, as well as very dark 
colors. Mercury likes neutral shades and not too strong colors, earth tones 
like mild greens, blues, grays, and browns. 

Herbs 

Go 9 d herbs for Mercury are nervines like gotu kola, bhringaraj 
(eclipta), skullcap, passion flower, betony, jatamansi, zizyphus, camo¬ 
mile, mint, and sage. Basil, particularly holy basil (tulsi) is specific for 
Mercury (Vishnu). 

Good oils and aromas are mint, wintergreen, eucalyptus, cedar, 
thyme, and sage, which clear and open the mind. Yet they may should be 
balanced with mind-calming oils like sandalwood, plumeria (frangipani), 
and lotus. < 

Mantras 

The name mantra for Mercury is OM BUDHAYA NAMAHA. The seed 
mantra for Mercury is OM BUM (with the “u” pronounced as in “put”). 
Very important also is the seed mantra AIM (aym), the mantra of the guru 
(the spiritual teacher) and of Saraswati the Goddess of Wisdom. Such 
mantras should be repeated on Wednesdays. 


< EJiw4JlA. 



, Treatment Methods: Balancing Influences of the Planets 249 

Deity 

Mercury relates to Vishnu, the Deity who pervades all .the universe 
and maintains it, as he shows the indwelling cosmic intelligence. 

Mercury relates to the Divine teacher, the God of wisdom, as Hermes 
or Thoth. In this regard, he is also the Buddha, the enlightened one, the 
avatar of knowledge, meditation and compassion. He is the Divine child, 
the baby Christ, or baby Krishna. 

Yoga 

Mercury energy is increased by the Yoga of knowledge, particularly 
by spiritual teachings which emphasize reason, discrimination, clear 
expression, and objective perception. It often gives us the role of a teacher 
of these things. The practice of mantra is helpful, as is the study of spiritual 
philosophies like Vedanta, or the learning of Sanskrit. 

Life-Style 

The individual should do more reading, studying, writing, and think¬ 
ing. Mathematical and philosophical studies are good, including taking 
courses, seminars, or going to school. The individual should cultivate a 
greater awareness of the world generally, and strive to increase powers of 
communication, perhaps study a new language. Yet time for silence of 
mind and relaxation in nature should always be preserved. 

It should always be remembered that the highest quality of the 
intellect is not in its ability to organize our cognition of the outer world 
but that of the inner world. This involves not accepting the view of the 
senses as the real world, but looking for the light of truth in the indwelling 
consciousness. 

JUPITER 

Signs of a Weak Jupiter 

When Jupiter energy is low, we suffer from lack of joy and enthusi¬ 
asm, weak will, and lack of faith. We feel narrow, contracted and devoid 
of meaning. There will be pessimism, depression, anxiety, melancholy, 
moodiness, and self-pity. We may lack compassion, friendliness or con¬ 
geniality. Often we may have material and financial difficulties. Our 
creative energy will be low, if any. Children may be denied or may suffer, 
as may the husband in the case of a woman. 

Physically, there will be poor vitality, weak immune function, low fat 
or body weight, along with usually poor liver and pancreas function, and 
weak absorption. Often there will be chronic disease and poor functioning 
of the nerves and glands. (It should be noted that these are similar to the 


&m,cL€tL<ttlIg.clL < EJU-u£IlA. 



2so The Astrology of the Seers 

signs of too strong or malefic a Saturn influence, as these two planets 
usually operate in opposition to each other.) 

Astrological Factors 

Jupiter is weak when in its fall (Capricorn); when as pec ted by 
malefics (Saturn, Rahu, Ketu, and Mars); and when in difficult houses 
(the Sixth, Eighth and TWelfth). 

Jupiter is a generally benefic planet for Aries, Cancer, Leo, Scorpio, 
Sagittarius, and Pisces Ascendants. For these signs, means of strengthen¬ 
ing Jupiter will aid in increasing its positive qualities of joy, creativity and 
intelligence, even if they are not lacking in the nature. 

Gems 

The main gem for Jupiter is a yellow sapphire. It should be set in gold, 
and worn on the index finger of the right hand. It should be at least two 
carats in size. 

Yellow topaz is a substitute of almost equal energy. Citrine is a weaker 
one, and should be wom as a large ring (five carats), a pendant or strand. 
Yellow zircon can also be used. 

Such gems should be put on first on a Thursday, preferably when the 
Moon is waxing, and when Jupiter is in its own sign, exalted or in a 
friendly sign. It is best if Jupiter is conjunct with, or in an angle from the 
Moon. 

When Not to Wear a Gem for Jupiter 

Gems for Jupiter are generally safe and balanced, perhaps the most 
of all stones, as Jupiter is the best benefic. 

Astrological factors which may cause us not to use them are Jupiter 
as lord of malefic houses (as for Taurus and Libra Ascendants), unless it 
is exalted or in its own sign. 

Colors 

Jupiter energy is increased by the use of yellow, orange and gold — 
clear, bright and transparent colors generally. Dark colors should be 
avoided, as well as strong shades like red, blue, violet, or purple. 

Herbs 

Jupiter energy is increased by tonic herbs like ashwagandha, bala, 
licorice, ginseng, and astragalus, particularly as taken in milk decoctions, 
with ghee (clarified butter), or as herbal jellies. Good foods for increasing 
Jupiter energy are nuts like almonds, walnuts, cashews, and sesame seeds, 
and oils like ghee, sesame and almond. 


£7 ^HjtLtrlxrajjcjfiL 



Treatment Methods: Balancing Influences of the Planets 


251 


Mantra 

The name mantra for Jupiter is OM BRIHASPATAYE NAMAHA. The seed 
mantra for Jupiter OM BRAHM (bruhm). Other mantras are good for Jupiter 
like SHRIM (shreem), which increases prosperity generally. OM itself is 
quite good, as it connects us with the expansive Divine energy. 

I 

Deity 

Jupiter relates to Brihaspati, the priest of the Gods. He also relates to 
Ganesh, the elephant-faced God, the first son of Shiva and Parvati. 
Sometimes Ganesh mantras are used for Jupiter, like OM GAM 
GANESHAYA NAMAHA. Jupiter is also the king of the Gods and the wielder 
of the thunderbolt as Zeus, Thor or Indra. 

Yoga 

Jupiter directs us to the spiritual life generally, and gives us the 
propensity for a broad and integral path, combining knowledge, devotion, 
practices and service, as in the path of Raja Yoga. Its basic impulse is 
towards devotion (faith), but from that it develops knowledge. Jupiter is 
more concerned with principle and value than form, but often loves 
ceremonies and rituals. Jupiter gives enthusiasm, but it may be temporary, 
if we do not fix it to a long term purpose. 

Life-Style 

Jupiter energy is increased by being more optimistic, having more 
faith, being highly principled or religious, by performance of rituals, and 
doing of good deeds. The individual should be more friendly, sociable, 
and communicative, but according to higher principles. They should seek 
to align themselves with the forces of good. They should attempt to do 
more things and have faith in their will and purpose in life. 

VENDS 

Signs of a Weak Venus 

These are lack of beauty, charm and grace, lack of taste or refinement, 
insensitivity, and lack of love or affection. The individual may be more 
coarse, aggressive, unrefined or vulgar. They may have many difficulties 
in their romantic life. For women, the feminine qualities may be low. For 
men, relationship with women may be difficult, or the wife may suffer. 
There will be difficulty expressing feelings. 

Physically, there may be weakness of the kidneys and the reproduc¬ 
tive system, infertility, weakness of the bones, low energy, poor immune 





252 The Astrology of the Seers 

function, and chronic urinary tract infections, with some tendency towards 
bleeding. 

Astrological Factors 

Venus is weak when in its fall (Virgo); when aspected by malefics 
(the Sun, Mars, Saturn, Rahu, and Ketu); and when in difficult houses 
(like the Sixth and Eighth). 

Venus is a generally benefic planet for Taurus, Gemini, Virgo, Libra, 
Capricorn, and Aquarius Ascendants, particularly for Capricorn and 
Aquarius. For these, such remedial measures for Venus will increase her 
higher powers like devotion, joy and creativity. 

Gems 

The main gem for Venus is a diamond. It should at least one carat in 
size, set in gold or white gold, and worn on the middle finger of the left 
or right hand. 

Substitutes are clear zircon (at least three carats) or quartz crystal. The 
latter is better used as pendants (at least five carats in size, preferably ten), 
or in strands. 

Such gems should put on first on a Friday, when the Moon is waxing, 
preferably when Venus is exalted, in its own sign or friendly signs (like 
those of Mercury and Saturn), and not too close to the Sun (more than ten 
degrees away). 

When Not to Wear a Gem for Venus 

Gems for Venus are also relatively safe. However, they can increase 
sexuality, attachment, and the powers the senses, if we are caught in the 
lower aspect of Venus energy. Hence, we should strive towards the higher 
Venus energy of devotion and surrender. We should not use gems for 
Venus if we have a high sex drive, or a strong need for comfort and luxury 
in life. 

Astrological factors are Venus as a lord of malefic houses (as for 
Sagittarius and Pisces Ascendants), or a strongly sensual Venus (Venus in 
Fixed signs, or aspected by Mars, in houses like the Fifth, Seventh or 
IWelfth). 

Colors 

Venus likes all colors, particularly a rainbow-like affect. She prefers 
pastels, light blues, and pinks. We should avoid dark and heavy colors, 
and colors that are too bright or penetrating. We should use light, flowery, 
variegated colors. 


£7 } HjeLtrLtrajjcjfiL 



Treatment Methods: Balancing Influences of the Planets 


253 


Herbs 

Venus likes all flowers and sweet fragrances: rose, saffron, jasmine, 
lotus, lily, and iris. Other good herbs are tonics like shatavari, white 
musali, amalaki, aloe gel, rehmannia, dang gui, and red raspberry. 

Mantra 

The name mantra for Venus is OM SHUKRAYA NAMAHA. The seed 
mantra is OM SHUM (with the “u” pronounced as in “put”). The general 
mantra for the Goddess, SHRIM (shreem), is also good for her. Another 
useful mantra is HRIM (hreem), the mantra of love, beauty, modesty, and 
opening of the heart. 

Deity 

Venus is the beautiful, youthful and often erotic form of the Goddess 
as Lakshmi, Lalita, TVipurasundari, Venus, Aphrodite, or Astarte. She 
should be worshipped on a Friday with flowers, particularly by lakes, 
streams or the sea. 

Yoga 

Venus relates to Bhakti Yoga or the Yoga of devotion. It makes us 
receptive to Divine love, joy and beauty, as we find in the stories of Radha 
and Krishna or in Sufi love poetry. It inclines us to chanting, rituals, dance, 
devotional singing and visualizations. Generally, we are inclined to 
approach the Divine in the form of a particular figure, teacher or deity, 
whom we love and serve. Venus also can give occult knowledge or 
powers, like the ability to see visions, or to travel astrally, but can get us 
caught in the glamour and illusion of the astral plane. 

Life-Style 

Venus energy is increased by adopting a more refined or sensitive 
existence, by taking a more appreciative and affectionate mode in life; It 
is important to be more creative or artistic, and to strive to improve our 
expression in life, both with our speech and our hands. It is helpful to have 
more beauty and color around oneself and in one’s environment. One 
should increase one’s feminine attributes if one is a woman. If one is a 
man, it helps to give more respect to the women in one’s life, particularly 
as the beloved, or the muse on an intellectual plane. 





254 


The Astrology of the Seers 


SATURN 

Signs of a Weak or Deranged Saturn 

These are lack of calm, agitation, tremors, inability to handle stress, 
insomnia, and ungroundedness. The individual will easily be intimidated 
by strong people or by harsh circumstances, and be weak and vulnerable. 
There will be a lack of practicality and a poor perception of reality. The 
individual may suffer from the government, or organized institutions, and 
have difficulty making money. There will be lack of consistency, and poor 
endurance. The person will quit easily and have no long term drive or 
planning. 

Physically, there will be weakness of the bones and nerves, poor 
vitality, weak longevity. There will be constipation, holding in of waste 
materials, and possible decay of body tissues. Healing will be slow and 
resistance to infectious diseases may not be good. In extreme cases, 
diseases like epilepsy, paralysis or cancer are possible. 

Astrological Indications 

Saturn is weak when in its fall (Aries); when as pec ted by malefics 
(the Sun, Mars, Rahu, and Ketu); and when in difficult houses (the Fifth, 
Sixth, Eighth and TVelfth). 

Saturn is a generally benefic planet for Taurus, Libra, Capricorn and 
Aquarius Ascendants, particularly Taurus and Libra. For these, gems for 
Saturn will increase better Saturnian qualities like objectivity, detach¬ 
ment, independence and authority, even when not weak in the chart. 

Gems 

The main gem for Saturn is a blue sapphire. It should be at least two 
carats in size, set in gold, and worn on the middle finger of the right or 
left hand. 

Substitutes are lapis lazuli, malachite or amethyst, which should be 
used in larger size (three to five carats) or as a pendant or strand. 

Such gems should be put on first on a Saturday, when the Moon is 
waxing, when Saturn is benefic and well-placed, preferably aspected by 
Jupiter. It is often good to wear an additional gem with them for a friendly 
benefic like Venus, Jupiter or Mercury. 

When Not to Wear Gems for Saturn 

Gems for Saturn should always be worn with care, as Saturn is a great 
malefic. Often it is best to give them a trial run, even if all factors appear 
good. They should not be used when there is too much darkness, selfish- 


£7 'HjtLtrljtrajjcjfLL < EJiial£IlA. 



Treatment Methods: Balancing Influences of the Planets 255 

ness, inertia, possessiveness, coldness, or calculation in the nature — 
when the individual is proud or manipulative. 

Astrological factors are when Saturn is the lord of difficult houses (as 
for Aries, Cancer, Leo, Scorpio, Sagittarius, and Pisces Ascendants), or 
when it is conjunct or negatively as pec ting benefics (the Moon, Venus, 
Jupiter, or Mercury). 

Colors 

Best to strengthen Saturn is dark blue. Brown, gray and black are 
good, but in excess may strengthen the negative side of Saturn. Generally, 
Saturn does not like too much color, and to strengthen it we should avoid 
bright colors and too much of any color. 

Herbs 

Good herbs for a weak Saturn are myrrh, frankincense, guggul, 
ashwagandha, shilajit, haritaki, and comfrey root — herbs to strengthen 
the bones and promote healing. The Ayurvedic formula IKphala is spe¬ 
cific for Saturn, as it cleanses all waste materials and also tonifies the 
deeper tissues. 

Good aromas for Saturn are sandalwood, frankincense, cedar and 
juniper, much like the herbs. 

Mantra 

The name mantra for Saturn is OM SHANAISCHARAYA NAMAHA. The 
seed mantra for Saturn is OM SHAM (shum). The Vedic chant for peace — 
OM SHANTISHANTI SHANTI — is a more extended version of this and is 
also good. 

Deity 

Saturn relates to the deity of time as Shiva (Kala), or his consort . 
(Kali). We can worship Shiva In his dark blue form and chant his name 
OM NAMAHA SHTVAYA; or we can do a worship of Kali, via her mantra) 
KLIM (Kleem). As a dark planet, Saturn’s worship often relates to the dark 1 
or terrible forms of the Divine. Saturn is the grandfather spirit, and can \ 
sometimes be propitiated by the worship of our ancestors. 

Yoga 

Saturn requites self-discipline, renunciation, surrender, detachment, 
objectivity, and doing of good karma — the Yogas of knowledge and 
service. It is more concerned with practice than with theory, and in his 
higher form, is the silent sage. It requires inaction and letting go on our 
part 


£7 'MxjxrlxnalcjqJ. 



> 

25(5 77ke Astrology of the Seers 

Tb cleanse the influence of a negative Saturn, some form of karmic 
expiation may be required like prayer, atonement, pilgrimages, or giving 
of charity. 

Life-Style 

When Saturn is weak one needs to cultivate peace, calm, detachment, 
and equanimity. There should be a strict routine in life, and the following 
of an authority or tradition. Havel should be reduced, along with stimu¬ 
lation of the nerves and senses. Strong emotions should be avoided, as 
well as situations of stress and strain. 

Time should be spent in nature, and in positive and nurturing envi¬ 
ronments. Slowing down, quiet and retreat may be helpful. 

RAHU 

Signs of a Weak or Deranged Rahu 

These are hypersensitivity, agitation, fear, anxiety, hallucinations, 
taking of drugs, impressionability, moodiness, strange fantasies and imag¬ 
inations, and cloudy perception. The individual may not know who they 
really are, and may be taken over by almost any influence or suggestion, 
however unrealistic. They are often unpopular, out of touch with the times, 
and may have few friends. They may like to debase themselves or their 
nerves in unwholesome pursuits. Generally, they tend to dissipate them¬ 
selves. 

Physical factors are weak immune function, easy contraction of 
contagious diseases, nervousness, tremors, insomnia, pallor, and nervous 
indigestion. The connection with the physical body will be low, often with 
loss of control of body functions. This may develop into nervous and 
mental disorders. 

Astrological Indications 

Such are the location of Rahu in difficult houses (the Fifth, Sixth, 
Eighth, or TWelfth); the planet ruling Rahu should also be weak, in its fall, 
combust, or poorly as pec ted; aspects to Rahu of malefics (Saturn, Sun and 
Mars) can contribute. 

When Rahu is in strong houses like the Tenth and its lord is benefic 
and strong, it can be good to wear gems for Rahu to increase its positive 
powers like the capacity to influence society in a benefic way. 

Gems 

The main gem for Rahu is a hessonite garnet (Gomedha). There are 
two main varieties; one cinnamon in color, the other golden. 


ttxlxrlxFTL I-G-ClL 



Treatment Methods: Balancing Influences of the Planets 257 

Other golden grossularite garnets can be used as substitutes. They 
should be at least three carats in size, set in gold or silver, and worn on 
the middle finger of the right or left hand. (Sometimes they are recom¬ 
mended to be worn on the finger of the planet that rules Rahu). Darker 
red or opaque garnets should usually not be used, as these increase the 
negative (eclipse-causing) power of Rahu. 

Such gems should be put on first when the Moon is waxing, on a 
Saturday, or the day of the planet which rules it in the chart. Rahu should 
be in favorable signs or those favorable to the planet which rules it. 

When Not to Wear a Gem for Rahu 

Gems for Rahu are relatively safe (except the darker ones). Rahu is 
the predominant influence in the materialistic age (the force of Maya), 
and hence the brighter gems for it help remove its darkening affect upon 
us. When Rahu is in THnes or Quadrants, and placing strong malefic 
aspects, it may be better not to use them, unless the planet ruling Rahu is 
benefic and not ruling malefic houses. 

Colors 

Colors for Rahu are much like those for Jupiter — bright, yellow, and 
gold, but also those for the Sun — red and orange and transparent. These 
serve to counter the negative effect of Rahu to cause eclipses and increase 
its positive effect to transmit energies. 

Herbs 

Rahu is a very subtle force and cannot be dealt with on a simple outer 
level. Aromas for clearing the psychic air can be helpful, like camphor, 
baybeny, sage, eucalyptus, or wintergreen, as can calming fragrances like 
sandalwood, lotus and frankincense. Calamus is the best herb for Rahu. 

Mantras 

The name mantra for Rahu is OM RAHAVE NAMAHA. The seed mantra 
is OM RAM (pronounced rahm). The mantra for Shiva, HUM (hoom), is 
also good as it destroys illusions and clears our psyche field of negative 
influences and suggestions. 

Deity 

The best deity for Rahu is Durga, the Goddess as the demon slayer. 
Her mantra is DUM (doom); also useful is the avatar Rama, the Divine 
hero. Durga is the Goddess form that clears our mind of illusions and 
negativity; Rama is the form of the Goddess who similarly destroys the 
demons of the subconscious (lower astral). 'Whenever Rahu’s influence 


The Astrology ofi the Seers 

U High we need to take refuge in the Divine, whatever form is closest to 
our heart. 

Yoga ' * 

, People with a weak Rahu should avoid Yogas that open up to the astral 

i plane, including the use of visualization, hypnosis and modem high tech 
Yogas (using tapes and videos). Devotion, surrender to the Divine, or 
Bhakti Yoga is best, as Rahu’s influence makes discernment and medita¬ 
tion difficult Some form of psychic clearing, expiation, or exorcism in 
extreme cases, may be helpful. 

There should be an alliance with a clear tradition and 
discipline, the avoidance of wishful thinking, the seeking of experiences, 
or the developing of occult powers. 

Life-Style 

When Rahu is weak, one should avoid exposure to powerful sensa¬ 
tions, mass media influences, high tech, drugs, too much sex, excess 
talking, and too much imagination. Everything artificial should be 
avoided from junk food to artificial environments. Peace, quiet and rest 
should be cultivated and opening up to Jupiterian type influences (love, 
faith and compassion). We need a protective and nurturing environment 

KETU 

Signs of a Weak or Deranged Ketu 

These are a lack of insight, poor discrimination, lack of confidence, 
self-doubt, and inability to concentrate. Perception will be poor, or overly 
acute, and the vision may be weak. There may be self-destructive tenden¬ 
cies, and the individual may be prone to violence or injury as under Mars, 
but more so of a collective nature (Ketu when weak makes us susceptible 
to being hurt in wars or mass calamities). They may feel constricted, 
contracted and lacking in freedom. They may be attached to the past or to 
lost causes. ' : - 

Physically, there may be weak digestion, poor circulation, ulcers, 
anemia, chronic bleeding disorders, muscular problems, or nervous sys¬ 
tem disorders, with possibly difficult or mysterious diseases like cancer 
or paralysis., as under Rahu. 

Astrological Factors 

Such are when the planet which rules the sign that Ketu is in is weak; 
when Ketu is in difficult houses (like the Third, Sixth or Eighth); or when 
it is as peeled by malefics (like Saturn and Mars). 


£7 } HjtLtHjtrajjcjfLL < EJiw4JlA. 



Treatment Methods: Balancing Influences of the Planets 259 

When Ketu is strong, when it is with a benefic planet in its own sign 
or exalted, or when it is in the TWelfth house and not aspected by malefics, 
gems for Ketu can be worn to increase its higher qualities of knowledge, 
insight and concentration. 

Gems ' 

The gem for Ketu is a cat’s eye (chrysoberyl family). It should be at 
least three carats in size and is preferably set in gold. It should be worn 
on the middle finger of the right hand generally, though again, like Rahu, 
it may be worn on the finger of the hand of the planet which rules it in the 
chart. > 

Quartz cat’s eye can be used as a substitute. They should be put on 
first on a Saturday, or on the day of the planet which rules Ketu, when the 
Moon is waxing. Ketu should be in favorable signs or those favorable to 
the planet which rules it 

When Not to Wear a Gem for Ketu 

These are when we may suffer from bleeding (acute type), high fever, 
headaches, infections, ulcers, and pain in the eyes (generally high Pitta). 

Astrological factors are when Ketu is in conjunction with planets 
(unless they are exalted or in their own signs), or when its ruler also rules 
malefic houses like the Sixth and Eleventh. 

Colors 

Colors for increasing Ketu are like those of the Sun — bright, fiery, 
penetrating, transparent, red, orange, and yellow. Opaque or whitish 
tinged colors should be avoided, as well as all dark or cloudy colors. 

Herbs 

Ketu, like Rahu, is subtle. Herbs to increase perception like sage, 
calamus, bayberry, wild ginger, and juniper may be useful. 

Penetrating aromatic oils like camphor, cedar, myrrh and frankin¬ 
cense can be good. Afflictions of a strong Ketu, however, require cooling 
nervines like gotu kola, bhringaraj, skullcap, and passion flower. 

Mantra 

The name mantra for Ketu is OM NAMAHA KETAVE. The seed mantra 
is OM KEM (pronounced like “came”). 

Deity 

Ketu relates to Rudra, the terrible form of Shiva as the God of death 
and transformation. He resembles Pluto, the Greco-Roman God of the 





.2 60 . • *' The Astrology of the Seers 

dead The worship of the terrible forms of the Divine can help overcome 
the negative influence of Ketu. Ketu also relates to Brahma, the God of 
Knowledge, once we have seen through his lower terror (our fear of 
death). 

Yoga 

Ketu is increased by the Yoga of knowledge, the capacity for self-in¬ 
quiry, much as under the Sun. It causes us to seek to transcend time and 
the senses. Meditation on death is also helpful for developing the higher 
Yogic powers of Ketu. 

1 

Life-Style 

The individual should have more confidence in their thoughts and 
perceptions. Spiritual and occult studies can be helpful, and learning to 
control and direct the power of insight. It is often good to study astrology. 
It is best to follow a teacher or tradition, however. At least there should 
be some discipline in the life; yet developing the will and energy along 
with compassion and freedom. 


£ 7 ^HjtLtrlxrajjcjfLL < EJiial£IlA. 



5 

WORSHIP AND MEDITATION 
ON THE PLANETS 

Devotional worship and meditation can also be used for balancing the 
planetary influences in the chart, or for just attuning ourselves with the 
cosmos. Such practices involve mantras, symbols, rituals, visualizations, 
and meditations. We outline some of these practices below. 

PLANETARY DEITIES 

- Each planet has its representative deity and its specific form. Each 
deity has a certain color, number of arms and types of implements, a 
certain face or appearance, and a particular vehicle (the animal it rides, 
signifying its underlying power). 

All the planetary deities are regarded as male. This is because all the 
signs and constellations are regarded as female. The planets are the forces 
(male) which work in the fields of the signs (female). The planetary deities 
also have their ruling deities (adhidevata) and their overrulers 
(pratyadhidevata). These may be male or female according to the nature 
of the planets. The standard scheme is as follows. 


PLANET 

RULING DEITY 

OVER RULER 

The Sun 

Agnl, God of Fire 

Shiva, The Great God 

The Moon 

Apas, Water Goddess 

Parvati, The Great Goddess 

Mars 

Bhumi, Earth Goddess 

Skanda, War God 

Mercury 

Vishnu, The Maintainer 

Narayana, another form of Vishnu 

Jupiter 

Indra, King of the Gods 

Brahma, The Creator 

Venus 

Indranl, Queen of the Gods 

Indra, King of the Gods 

Saturn 

Yama, God of Death 

Prajapati 

Rahu 

Durga, Goddess of Power 

Sarpa, The Serpent God, 

Ketu 

Vehicle 

Chitragupta, God of Karma 

Brahma, God of Knowledge 


SUN Seven-Headed Horse 

MOON Deer 

MARS Goat 

MERCURY Lion (with an elephant’s trunk) 

JUPITER Elephant 


If-t-cLcrLcrTi Ic.aZ < EJfujjtJ±A. 




262 


The Astrology of the Seers 


VENUS Horse 

SATURN Ox 

RAHU Lion 

KBTU Serpent 

FORMS OF PLANETARY DEITIES* 

The Sun 

Standing on a lotus, with the lustre of a red lotus, who has two arms, 
with a lotus in his hand, the creator of the day, the teacher of the world, 
whose vehicle is a horse with seven heads, with a ruby crest jewel on his 
head, making the gesture that gives boons, may the Divine Sun ever grant 
us his grace. 

The Moon 

Clothed in white, white in lustre, whose ornaments are white, who has 
two arms, with a lotus in his hand, whose soul is immortal, who is a yogi, 
whose vehicle is a deer, with a pearl crest jewel on his head, making the 
gesture that gives boons, may the Divine Moon ever grant us his grace. 

Mars 

Dressed in red, with a red body, who has four arms, the son of the 
Earth, whose vehicle is a ram, who carries a trident, spear and mace in 
his hands, with a coral crest jewel on his head, making the gesture that 
gives boons, may Divine Mars ever grant us his grace. 

Mercury 

Dressed in green, with a green body, who has four arms, the incar¬ 
nation of Vishnu, who is a yogi, whose vehicle is a lion with an elephant's 
trunk, who carries a sword, shield and book in his hands, the son of the 
Moon, with an emerald crest jewel on his head making the gesture that 
gives boons, may Divine Mercury ever grant us his grace. 

Jupiter 

Dressed in yellow, withayellow body, who has four arms, the teacher 
of the Gods, peaceful in nature, whose vehicle is an elephant, who carries 
a rosary, a water pot and a staff in his hands, with a yellow sapphire crest 
jewel on his head making the gesture that gives boons, may Divine Jupiter 
ever grant us his grace. 


See Illustrations p. 9. 


£7 *MxjxrlxFTLMjCjqJ. ( EJU-il£IlA. 



Worship and Meditation on the Planets 


263 


Venus 

Clothed in white, white in lustre, who has four arms, the teacher of 
the demons, whose nature is peaceful, whose vehicle is a white horse, who 
carries a rosary, waterpot and staff in his hands, with a diamond crest 
jewel on his head, making the gesture that gives boons, may Divine Venus 
ever grant us his grace. 

Saturn 

Dressed in blue, dark blue in color, who has four arms, the son of the 
Sun, who appears fearful, whose nature is peaceful, whose vehicle is an 
ox, who moves slow, who carries a trident, bow and mace in his hands, 
with a blue sapphire crest jewel on his head, making the gesture that gives 
boons, may Divine Saturn ever grant us his grace. 

Rahu 

Dressed in black, black in color, who has four arms, who is fearful to 
behold, a head without a body, whose body is a serpent, whose vehicle is 
a lion, who carries a sword trident and discus in his hands, with a 
hessonite crest jewel on his head making the gesture that gives boons, 
may Divine Rahu ever grant us his grace. 

Ketu 

Dressed in grey, of the color of smoke, who has two arms, whose head 
is cut off, who has a serpent’s head, whose vehicle is a serpent, who carries 
a mace in his hand with a cat’s eye crest jewel on his head making the 
gesture that gives boons, may Divine Ketu ever grant us his grace. 

OTHER FORMS FOR WORSHIPPING THE PLANETS 

Each planet corresponds to a particular form of grain or legume: 


THE SUN 

Wheat 

THE MOON 

White Rice 

MARS 

Red Dhal 

MERCURY 

Mung Beans 

JUPITER 

Chick Peas 

VENUS 

Lima Beans 

SATURN 

Sesame Seeds 

RAHU 

Black Gram 

KETU 

Horsegram (Kulattha) 


These grains are used for the worship of the planets. Each planet can 
be represented by a small bowl of them, which can be placed on an altar. 
They correspond to the qualities of the planets. Generally, they are good 
foods to take when their respective planet is weak. 


£ 7 ^HxixrlxralcjaJ. < EJhjjjLIlA, 



264 The Astrology of the Seers 

We can also use less expensive gems as clusters or uncut stones to use 
in the worship of the planets. These are the Sun — garnet, the Moon — 
cloudy quartz crystal. Mars — camelian, Mercury — green tourmaline, 
Jupiter — citrine, Venus — clear quartz crystal, Saturn — amethyst, 
Rahu — golden garnet, and Ketu — quartz cat’s eye. These gems can be 
placed on altars and used for worshipping the planets. 

SYMBOLS FOR THE PLANETS 

These are an arrow for Mercury, a five pointed star for Venus, a 
crescent Moon for the moon, a square for Jupiter, an eight pointed star for 
the Sun, an upward pointing triangle for Mars, a flag for Ketu, a bow for 
Saturn, and a magnet for Rahu. These symbols can also be used in the 
worship of the planets. 

DIRECTIONS OF THE PLANETS 

The Sun relates to the east, Venus to the southeast. Mars to the south, 
Rahu to the southwest, Saturn to the west, the Moon to the northwest, 
Mercury to the north, and Jupiter to the northeast. 

When making the planets into symbols or yantras, or when placing 
them in a pattern on an altar, their directions are: the Sun — center, the 
Moon — southeast, Mars — south. Mercury — northeast, Jupiter — 
north, Venus — east, Saturn — west, Rahu — southwest, and Ketu — 
northwest. 

YANTRA 

Just as each planet has a mantra, a special sound energy, so too it 
possesses a yantra or special energy pattern. The yantra is the visible form, 
the energy body, of the mantra, and of the planet to which it corresponds. 

TVo general types of yantras exist: First are numerical yantras, 
wherein numbers are inscribed; second are geometric mantras based on a 
certain geometrical designs. 

The most common geometrical yantra is that for the Sun, the Surya 
yantra, used for the cover of this book. The most common planetary 
yantras are the numerical types. They are all based on a certain sequence. 

Numerical Yantras 

The numerical yantras develop from the same numerical sequence. 
They relate specifically to the magic square of the number five. This is a 
mathematical design with the number five in the center. Whichever way 
we add the numbers, horizontally, vertically or diagonally, its total equals 
the same number, fifteen. The number for each respective planet occurs 


ttxlxrlxFTL I-G-ClL 



265 


Worship and Meditation on the Planets 

in the upper center, starting with the Sun as the number one. The solar 
yantra shows the basic form of this pattern. 

Solar Yantra 


6 

1 

8 

7 

5 

3 

2 

9 

4 


This yantra shows the manifestation of solar energy. Five is the root 
number of manifestation. We have five elements, five sense organs, and 
five limbs (two arms, two legs and head). Hence, this is not just a 
mathematical curiosity but reflects cosmic law. The number 15 shows the 
manifestation of solar energy. The total of all the numbers is 45, 9x5, 
which shows the full development of the fivefold force. 

This same numerical sequence, called the Writing from the Lo River 
or the Book ofLo, is the basis for the I Ching, which is the basis of Chinese 
astrology. We see, therefdre, that these numbers contain the key to oriental 
astrology. 


Lunar Yantra 



This is the lunar yantra based on the number two. As one is increased 
to two for this yantra, so are all the other numbers increased by one. Now 
everything adds up to 18, which is the number that completes the lunar 
manifestation. The total of all the numbers in the lunar yantra is 54. 


Mars Yantra 


8 

3 

10 

9 

7 

5 

4 

11 

6 


This is the yantra for Mars based on the number three. The rtumbers 
add up to 21 for each column, or 63 for the total. 


57 1 HjdxrLa^aXcjaJ- W?lujLIl£. 






The Astrology of the Seers 


266 

Mercury Yantra 


9 

' 4 

11 

10 

8 

6 

5 

12 

7 


This yantra for Mercury is based on the number four. The numbers 
add up to 24 for each column, and 72 for the total. 

Jupiter Yantra 


10 

5 

12 

11 

9 

7. 

6 

13 

8 


• ■' ' . . " ‘ .f 

This yantra for Jupiter is based on the number five. The numbers add 
up to 27 for each column, and 81 for the total. 

Venus Yantra 


11 

6 

13 

12 

10 

8 

7 

14 

9 


This is the yantra for Venus based on the number six. Each column 
equals 30, and the total equals 90. 

Saturn Yantra 


12 

7 

14 

13 

11 

9 

8 

15 

10 


This is the yantra for Saturn based on the number seven. Each column 
equals 33, and the total equals 99. ) 


£7 } HjtLtHjtrajjcjfLL < EJiw4JlA. 







Worship and Meditation on the Planets 267 

Rahu Yantra 


13 

8 

15 

14 

12 

10 

9 

16 

11 


This is the yantra for Rahu based on the number eight Each column 
equals 36, and the total equals 108. 

. - • i 

Ketu Yantra 


14 

9 

16 

15 

13 

11 

10 

17 

12 


This is the yantra for Ketu based on the number nine. Each column 
equals 39, and the total equals 117. ' ' 

* * * 

These planetary yantras are available inscribed in copper, which is 
the most common way to use them. We can also write them ourselves to j 
benefit from their power. Special yantras inscribed with mantras or names I 
of the planets exist for many planets. Common is a triangular yantra with > 
the names of the planet Mars. Special yantras exist for Saturn made out | 
of five metals and inscribed with the names of Saturn. 

Yantra and Mantra 

A simple yantra for the planets can be made with the solar yantra and f 
the bija (seed) mantras for each planet. . .} 


Shum 

Sum 

Ram 

Sham 

Gum 

Am 

Cham 

Kem 

Bum 


For the pronunciation all the “a” vowels should be pronounced with 
a short a-vowel sound qs in our word “the.” The “u" vowels are also short 
as in our word “put” The “e” vowel is like our long a-vowel as in “came.” 


£7 } HjtLtrLtrajjcjfMl. < EJhjjjLIlA. 
















268 The Astrology of the Seers 

Other Yantras for the Planets 

Yantras for the deities corresponding to the planets can be used for 
balancing planetary influences as well. Some typical ones are as follows: 


SUN 

Surya Yantra, Gayatri Yantra, Vishnu Yantra 

MOON 

Sri Yantra, Lakshmi Yantra 

MARS 

Mangala Yantra 

MERCURY 

Vishnu Yantra 

JUPITER 

Ganesh Yantra 

VENUS 

Sri Yantra, Lakshmi Yantra 

SATURN 

Sri Shani Yantra 

RAHU 

Kali Yantra, Durga Yantra. 

KETU 

Mahamrityunjaya Yantra. 


’ The Sri Yantra is the best for all general purposes. Yantras should be 
used along with mantras and meditation on their deities. 

Use of Yantras 

?, Copper yantras can be used for purifying water (copper is the best 
substance for this purpose), or for energizing medicines. They can be used 
1 |as energy sources placed on altars, meditation seats, meditation, or 
treatment rooms, or in other important places. Small yantras can be worn 
like gemstones in pendants or rings. 

/ Yantras for planets should be frequently energized with the appropri- 
•' ate mantras for the planets. They should be cleared and empowered 
periodically like gemstones. 

Silver or gold yantras have more power. Copper is the most com- 
! monly used substance and is not too expensive. Those on steel, silk, or 
the bark of wood of sacred trees (like sandalwood) have less power. 
Copper tends to tarnish and has to be cleaned periodically. Chemical 
copper cleaners may be toxic, and so should be removed completely 
before using the yantras to purify water, or using yantra purified water to 
make or take medicines. 

Yantras may be written on paper or inscribed on mote durable 
substances. However, it is important to meditate upon the meaning of the 
numbers and designs. 

Yantras are less expensive than gemstones. They can be as effective 
as gems, if used with mantras, and possess no side-effects. However, they 
can be hard to procure or difficult to makef^ 


£7 'MxjxrlxralcjqJ. < EJiial£IlA. 



PART IV 


VEDIC ASTROLOGY 
IN PRACTICE 


Rahu 



Dressed in black, black in color, who 
has four arms, who is fearful to behold, a 
head without a body, whose body is a 
serpent, whose vehicle is a lion, who car¬ 
ries a sword, trident and discus in his 
hands, with a hessonite crest jewel on his 
head, making the gesture that gives boons, 
may Divine Rahu ever grant us his grace. ” 




r 


1 

EXAMPLE CHARTS 


The following charts demonstrate major principles in astrological 
interpretation. We should examine them carefully to see how the factors 
presented in the book apply on a practical level. We cannot learn astrology 
theoretically; we must examine as many charts as we can. While the rules 
of astrology do work, they do not do so in a rigid or mechanical way. To 
see both their relevance and the fluidity of their application, we must look 
to actual charts. The real art in astrology is to find those factors which are 
predominant, which outweigh the others and thereby determine the over¬ 
all affect of the chart. 

We cannot, owing to lack of space, go into these charts in all respects. 
They are mainly well-knqwn and famous people or those of some noto¬ 
riety. They are rather dramatic charts, and we do not always find charts 
to be so clear and easy to read. I have included a number of charts of 
spiritual teachers, to show the factors astrologically that may be helpful 
for the development of higher consciousness. I have also shown some 
charts of rather evil individuals, to demonstrate the opposite poles of 
human nature. The charts of a number of political and intellectual leaders 
are included, but I have avoided the usual focus on the charts of entertain¬ 
ers. 

Both the basic Birth (Rashi) and harmonic ninth (Navamsha) Charts 
are presented, but not the House (Bhava) Chart. In fact, a lot of important 
planetary positions presented in them, like Angular house location, would 
not be found in the Bhava Chart. In addition, the Major planetary periods 
(Maha Dashas) are given. 

To understand these charts, please examine the major aspects between 
the planets that occur in them according to the rules of Vedic astrology. 
Note the houses that the planets rule in each chart, and their meaning as 
house lords; go back to the pages in the book that present these, if 
necessary. Consider dispositorship as well, as planets project the influ¬ 
ences of the planets which are located in their signs. Observe how 
frequently planets will be found in their own signs, exalted, or debilitated, 
and prominent in angles according to the Vedic house and sign system. 

The harmonic ninth charts vary somewhat according to the 
Ayanamsha used, as do the planetary periods; hence, there may be some 


^7#it/<rZcm.Zc.a/ 


2 72 77te Astrology of the Seers 

minor differences between the positions found here and those given in 
other books on Vedic astrology. We often read the self-indicator 
(Atmakaraka or planet with the highest number of degrees in any partic¬ 
ular sign), or the Moon, in the harmonic ninth, as birth times are not often 
accurate enough to guarantee the correctness of the Ascendant in this 
subtle chart. 

CHART NO. 1 — Political and Religious Leader w 
MAHATMA GANDHI 


V R 

■ 

■ 

■ 


RASH! 

CHAKRA 


0 



■ 

■ 

■ 

5 

d 1 

9 

Asc 

o 


V 

J> 


u 

9 

O 


1 

NAVAMSHA 

Harmonic Ninth 


V 

9 

Asc 


V 

(l 




10-02-1869 07:33 A M. L.M.T 




21°N44' 069°E33', 

Ayanamsha 20° 3; 

11 NATAL POSITIONS 


IPLANETARY PERIODS 

Ascendant 

10° 55' Libra 


i.Maha Dasha 

Begin 

Sun 

18° 23'Virgo 


Mercury 

10-02-1869 

Moon 

29° 38'Cancer 


Ketu 

03-20-1870 

Mars 

. 27° 51'Libra 


Venus 

03-20-1877 

Mercury 

13° 13' Libra 


Sun 

03-201897 

Jupiter 

29° 37' Aries r 


Moon 

03-201903 

Venus 

25° 54' Libra 


Mars 

03-201913 

Saturn 



Rahu 

03-201920 

Rahu 

Ketu 

Uranus 

Neptune 

Pluto 

13° 38'Cancer 

13° 38'Capricorn 
01° 06' Cancer r 
18° 05' Taurus r 

17° 17’ Taurus r 

_ 


Jupiter 

03-201938 

Died 1948 


Gandhi represents the social and political impact of a strong and 
idealistic Libra Ascendant, seeking to reform the world according to 
spiritual values. There are many strong Angular planets, affording power 
of action. Yet in addition to these, balancing their outgoing nature, austere 
Saturn in the Second house gives renunciation, and control of the diet and 


£7 1 HjdxrUj^aXcjqJ- 



































Example Charts 


273 


senses — factors ruled by the Second. The Sun in hard-working Virgo, in 
the Twelfth house of loss, makes for a self-abnegating and virtuous nature. 

The Moon in the Tenth house of career, with Rahu on the Midheaven, 
gives the capacity to influence the masses; note that Rahu and the Moon 
are not too close, so the Moon is not darkened by it. The Rahu Major 
period brought Gandhi into public prominence. Jupiter in the Seventh 
house gives a benefic nature in relationship and communication, and 
brings reformist zeal, as it is lord of the Third and Sixth (houses of energy). 

Note how the influences of Mercury, Venus and Jupiter overcome and 
transform that of Mars, and turn it into a benefic force. Libra Ascendants 
love the truth when Mercury, Venus and Jupiter combine their influences. 
Gandhi typified this love of truth with his Satyagraha (“those who hold 
to truth”) movement. 

The positions from the Moon are also strong, with Jupiter in the Tenth 
from the Moon, as the lord of the Ninth or religious sign from it. The Libra 
planets are located Fourth from the Moon and show an idealistic mind. 

The Moon, as the self or soul-indicator (Atmakaraka), is located in 
-Pisces in the harmonic ninth, in an angle from Jupiter which is in its own 
sign in Sagittarius. This shows a very Sattvic and devoted nature, a 
Moon-Jupiter soul. 

CHART NO. 2 — Political Leader 
ADOLF HITLER 



s 

Sr 

O 

c? 

* 

a 


RASH I 
CHAKRA 




V 

u 

J> 


Asc 

Wr 


w 


a 

2 

G 


NAVAMSHA 

Harmonic Ninth 


>? 

■ 

1 

■ 


V 


04-20-1889 06:30 P.M. L.M.T. 
48°N15' 013°E03', Ayanamsha 20° 52' 


zi ttxLerlxra. IcxlL 















274 


The Astrology of the Seers 


I PLANETARY PERIODS 

IMaha Pasha Begin 

j Venus 

08-20-1889 

Sun 

08-16-1905 

Moon 

08-16-1911 

Mara 

08-16-1921 

Rahu 

08-16-1928 


Died 1945 


Inatal POSITIONS 

Ascendant 

05° 52' Libra 

Sun 

09“ 57'Aries 

Moon 

15“ 47' Sagittarius 

Mare 

25“ 32'Aries 

Mercury 

04“ 49' Aries 

Jupiter 

17“ 24' Sagittarius 

Venus 

25“ 51'Aries r ( 

Saturn 

22“ 36' Cancer 

Rahu 

25“ 13' Gemini 

Kctu 

25“ 13' Sagittarius 

Uranus 

28“ 38'Virgo r 

Neptune 

09“ 59'Taurus 

Pluto 

13° 49' 'Buirus 


Hitler’s chart demonstrates some important astrological points: It 
shows the power of Libra Ascendant to influence the masses, to gain 
political power according to a fanaticism and idealism — the lower and 
dark side of Libra. It is not a self-proclaimed dark force that wreaks havoc 
in the world, but a self-righteous and egoistic idealism. Hitler appealed to 
much of the idealism of the human mind, but in a perverted way with his 
idea of the super-race, and his distorted use of the Hindu spiritual term 
Aryan and its symbol, the Swastika. 

His chart vety strongly shows Ruchaka Yoga, the Mahapurusha or 
great person yoga of Mars, with Mars in its own sign and in an angle from 
the Ascendant. Mars aspects both the Ascendant and its lord, Venus. Mars 
is the dispositor of Venus and also defeats it in a planetary war (being 
located before it in the same degree). Mars thus confers upon the Libra 
field of action a violent, martial nature and Pitta (fiery) type psycho-phys¬ 
ical constitution. 

The Sun, exalted in the Seventh house of partnership, gives leadership 
ability and adds to the fire power of Mars. It is at its maximum degree of 
exaltation, making for a great general. The Sun and Mars dominate 
Mercury and Venus, making these planets also aggressive. Note how this 
compares with Gandhi’s chart, where Mercury and Venus are stronger, 
and bring out the higher side of Libra energy. The Seventh house domi¬ 
nated by Mars, though good for political and military power, is not good 
for relationship, and shows a very controlling and manipulative person 
who can have no real friends. 

The strength of Mars, and Saturn at the highest point in the chart, give 
a Tamasic (dark) nature. Both aspect Venus, the lord of the Ascendant, 
and dominate the chart. Saturn in the Tenth confers Raja Yoga (gives great 
power and prestige), as it is the natural planet to do so for Libra Ascendant. 


57 'MxlxrlxrnlcjaJ. 




Example Charts 275 

Yet Saturn by itself in the Tenth, even for Libra, raises people up for a 
time, only to bring them down. 

Ketu, along with Jupiter in its own sign Sagittarius in the Third house, 
boosts ups Jupiter and the house, as combining with its lord. (Ketu always 
tends to raise up the power of planets with which it is associated with in 
their own signs). The martial power and prowess, which Vedic astrology 
associates with the Third house, comes out in this combination. The lord 
of the Tenth house (the Moon) is not thought to do well in the Third house, 
a house of impulse. It is said to cause rash action leading to one’s downfall 
in life. 

Mars and Ketu dominate the harmonic ninth chart along with the 
self-indicator (Atmakaraka) Venus, which is located with them in the 
harmonic ninth subdivision of Scorpio — another martial and wrathful . 
sign. This further shows Hitler’s vindictive nature on an inner level. 

Hitler’s whole rise and fall occurred within the Major period of Rahu 
(the north node of the Moon), the planet of illusion and worldly power. 

As usual, it caused him to seek expansion until it brought about his 
collapse — as Rahu causes our energies to push themselves until we 
overextend ourselves. The Jupiter Minor pferiod brought him into power 
in Germany in 1933. He started World War II under the Minor period of 
Ketu in 1939. The collapse of Germany occurred during the Minor period 
of the Moon in 1945. Rahu’s perverted energy eventually warped his 
strong power of military judgement. It caused him to spread his military 
resources too thin by his invasion of Russia, and by bringing America into 
the war. 

A typical difference between Tlopical and Sidereal placements of 
planets in signs comes out in this chart. In the Tlopical chart. Hitler has 
Mars in its detriment in Taurus, and Jupiter is in its fall in Capricorn — 
poor sign placements. These are read by Tlopical astrologers to show his 
evil and materialistic nature. In the Vedic system, planetary Yogas are 
evident; planets in their own sign, or exalted, and at an angle from the 
Ascendant — good sign placements. The Vedic idea is that a strong Mars 
would be necessary to give martial and political power, not a weak one. 

A strong Jupiter would also be helpful. Hitler’s evil or Tamasic nature is 
read by the strength of Mars and Saturn as dominating the chart, not by 
these planets being weak or poorly placed. If they were weak, he could 
not have been as successful as he was. 




HLcLerlxru. mjcjclL 


276 


The Astrology of the Seers 


CHART NO. 3 — Spiritual Teacher 
PARAMAHANSA YOGANANDA 


V 

s 

■ 


u 

9 

V 

NAVAMSHA 

Harmonic Ninth 

■ 


a 


o 




01-05-1893 08:38 P.M. L.M.T. 
26°N47' 083°E23', Ayanatnsha 20° 54' 


<? 

a 

rm 


V 





RASHI 



CHAKRA 





Asc 




J> 

e 

9 

V 

mm 

o 


« 

H 


3NATAL POSITIONS 

Ascendant 

08° 45'Leo 

Sun 

24° 40' Sagittarius 

Moon 

04° 43' Leo 

Mars 

14° 46' Pisces 

Mercury 

02° 23' Sagittarius 

Jupiter 

25° 19- Pisces 

Venus 

26° 12' Scorpio 

Saturn 

21°41'Virgo 

Rahu 

13° 21' Aries 

Ketu 

13° 21' Libra 

Uranus 

19° 08'Libra 

Neptune 

18° 05' Taurus r 

Pluto 

17° 17' Iannis r 


PLANETARY PERIODS 

Maha Dasha Bcein 

Ketu 

01-05-1893 

Venus 

07-14-1897 

Sun 

07-14-1917 

Moon 

07-14-1923 

Mars 

07-14-1933 

Rahu 

07-14-1940 


Died 1952 


This is a chart of a great yogi, one of the first to bring the teachings 
of Yoga to the West. While it is difficult to read enlightenment or liberation 
from a chart, if we examine the charts of spiritual and enlightened 
individuals, we find strong indications of spirituality. 

As Yogananda was a monk, there are strong signs of renunciation. 
The Moon in the First house, as lord of the TVelfth house of loss and 
negation, shows the capacity for a noble self-negation. It is also exalted 
in the ninth harmonic. Saturn is in the Second house, one of its best 
placements for renunciation, as it detaches us not only from wealth and 
work (Second house), but by its aspect on the third sign from it, also from 
home and emotions (Fourth house). In Yogananda’s chart, it additionally 
aspects Venus, the planet of sexuality, located in the Fourth house. Saturn 


£7 ^HxtxrlxralcjaJ. 























Example Charts 277 

in Virgo, a discriminating sign, is particularly good for giving self-control 
and asceticism. 

Jupiter, the religious planet, is the final dispositor in the chart. It is in 
the profound and occult Eighth house in its own sign, giving high 
intelligence and probing insight. It dominates Mars and gives thereby a 
strong will for spiritual work. The Sun, the lord of the Ascendant, is in 
the benefic Fifth house and in the religious sign Sagittarius, showing good 
religious karma from past lives and a spiritual temperament. 

Venus, as the self-indicator (Atmakaraka), is well-placed in the har¬ 
monic ninth in Aquarius, another mystical sign, along with Jupiter. This 
shows Yogananda’s basically devotional nature. Rahu (the significator of 
foreigners), located in the Ninth house in the birth chart, brought him 
before the public and caused him to reside and teach in a foreign land. 

Mars, the ruler of the Fourth house or house of the mother from both 
the Ascendant and the Moon, is located in the Eighth house of death. 
Saturn also aspects Mars and the Fourth house, along with Venus located 
in it. Hence, Yogananda lost his mother at an early age, in the Venus Major 
period, Mars Minor period. 

CHART NO. 4 — Spiritual Teacher / 

RAMAKRISHNA 




* 

5 


9 




a 








« 

NAVAMSHA 



Harmonic Ninth 

U 

s< 



<? 

o 


9 


A sc 





02-18-1836 Near Dawn L.M.T 
22°N55' 087°E58', Ayanamsha 20° 03’ 


9 

* 


a 

’ 


Nj^l 

RASHI 

CHAKRA 


s 

• 


0 

bn 



( *7^LcLa~L(ra.L€Lti.L 










278 


The Astrology of the Seers 


(PLANETARY PERIODS 

IMihi Dasha Begin 

Jupiter 

02-18-1836 

Saturn 

10-12-1847 

Mercury 

10-12-1866 

Ketu 

10-12-1883 


Died 1886 


- —■ 

j »iu i 


















2 *H| ^ 


52 







This is obviously a highly spiritual chart. Aquarius itself is often a 
very spiritual Ascendant, giving strong faith, power of worship, and 
surrender. Here it contains both the Sun and Moon — a triple Aquarius 
in Vedic astrology. Hence, planetary factors affect all three Ascendants 
(the Ascendant, Sun and Moon). The lord of all three Ascendants, Saturn, 
is exalted in Libra, the Ninth house of religion, thus bringing both Divine 
grace and spiritual discipline to all of them. 

Jupiter in the Fifth house of intelligence, and in an air sign Gemini, 
gives high intelligence and good religious karma. Mars, exalted in the 
Twelfth house of negation, gives the power of spiritual work, service and 
renunciation. Venus, exalted in the Second house of livelihood, as it is the 
dispositor of separative Saturn and Rahu, gives detachment and religious 
devotion. It does not give a seeking of wealth and comfort (lower Venus 
values), but a love of chanting and doing rituals to the deities (the higher 
Venus values). 

Ramakrishna’s chart is dominated by planets in air signs and shows 
the soul’s capacity to move beyond this world. Particularly important is 
Jupiter’s aspects (from its position in the Fifth house) to Saturn in the 
Ninth, and to the Ascendant, which counters the lower side of Saturnian 
energy. However, this also caused him to neglect his body and gave him 
a shorter life than was otherwise indicated. 

Aquarius is also strong in the harmonic ninth. It contains Jupiter, 
Saturn, Mercury and Rahu, showing the religious bent of the mind on an 
inner level. Aquarius as a sign of Saturn, a dark sign, relates to Kali, the 
dark or black form of the Divine Mother worshipped by Ramakrishna. 
His self-indicator (Atmakaraka) is Mars, and in the harmonic ninth Mars 
is in Leo, the sign of the soul. This gave him the insight that allowed him 
to penetrate through his devotional images to the truth of the Divine Self 
behind them. 


57 ^HxLxrLxrajjCjaJ. 











Example Charts 


279 


CHART NO. 5 — Scientist 
ALBERT EINSTEIN 



ft 

Asc 







♦ 



¥ 

$ 



O 

J> 

NAVAMSHA 



Harmonic Ninth 


u 

Mg 

u 

v 


■ 

9 



03-14-1879 11:30 A.M. L.M.T 
48°N30' 010°EOO\ Ayanamsha 20° 42' 


[■ 

<9 

■ 

Asc 

■ 

RASHI 

CHAKRA 

0 

n 

¥r 


) 




| PLANETARY PERIODS 
nMaha Dasha Bevin 

jMcrcury 

03-14-1879 

Ketu 

01-24-1887 

Venus 

01-24-1894 

Sun 

01-24-1914 

Moon 

01-24-1920 

Mars 

01-24-1930 

Rahu 

01-24-1937 


Died 1955 


INATAL POSITIONS 

Ascendant 

21° 02' Gemini 

Sun 

02° 48'Pisces 

Moon 

23“ 50'Scorpio 

Mars 

■MtlWMl 

Mercury 

12° 27'Pisces 

Jupiter 

06° 47' Aquarius I 

Venus 

26° 17' Pisces 

Saturn 

13° 29'Pisces 

Rahu 

10° 47' Capricorn 

Ketu 

10° 47'Cancer 

Uranus 

10° 34'Leo r 

Neptune 

17° 09’Aries 

Pluto 



Einstein’s chart naturally demonstrates a strong intellectual capacity, 
which we would, expect from this great genius of science. Gemini itself 
is an intellectual Ascendant and most of the planets are in Mutable signs, 
giving flexibility and curiosity of the mind. Most notably Mercury, the 
ruler of the Ascendant, has its debility cancelled, as it is both in an angle 
from the Ascendant (in the Tenth) and with an exalted Venus in Pisces. In 
this position, Mercury gives profound intelligence and functions even 
better than if it were exalted. It allows Einstein to probe into the deeper 
levels of the mind wherein the intellect opens up to the higher cosmic 
intelligence. 


£7 1 HjdxrUj^j-CjgJ- 


























280 


The Astrology of the Seers 

Venus is within a degree of maximum exaltation, and as ruler of the 
Fifth house of creative intelligence, gives a love of knowledge. His four 
planets in the Tenth house of career also make him very famous, a world 
renowned figure, or legend in his own time. The exchange of signs (mutual 
reception) between Saturn and Jupiter, as the lords of the Ninth and Tenth 
houses, aids in giving him recognition and the respect of world leaders. 

Mars, exalted in the Eighth house of profound insight in an Earth sign, 
gives scientific and mathematical ability, and inventiveness (factors ruled 
by the Eighth in Vedic astrology). Its association with Rahu adds to its 
strength and influence. Jupiter in Aquarius, in the Ninth house of religion, 
gives a humanitarian disposition and a concern for social causes, which 
Einstein was well known for. Jupiter is also strong in the harmonic ninth 
in its own sign, with Venus, his self-indicator (Atmakaraka), the Moon, 
and Mars in humanitarian Aquarius. 

The Moon also has its fall cancelled, owing to the exaltation of Mars 
(the ruler of Scorpio, the sign in which the Moon is located) in Capricorn. 
The Moon thus gives profound intelligence and a strong capacity for 
service. It also benefits from being in an angle from Jupiter. Ketu gives 
additional insight by aspecting not only the Second house of intellect and 
its lord (the Moon), but also aspecting Mercury and the planets in the Tenth 
house. 


CHART NO. 6 — Founder of Modern Psychoanalysis 
SIGMUND FREUD -- 


21 

|oW ; * 

¥ 

9 

1 _ 

■ 

V 

RASH! 

CHAKRA 



■ 



U 

Asc 

■ 


9 

a 

<? 

$ 

V 


NAVAMSHA 


■ 

Harmonic Ninth 

a 

■ 



m 

9 

O 

w 

m 


05-06-1856 06:30 P.M. L.M.T 
49°N38' 018°E09', Ayanamsha 20° 2$ 


£7 } HjtLtHjtrajjcjfLL < EJiw4JlA. 















Example Charts 


281 


(planetary periods 


Maha Dasha 

Begin 


Mara 

05-06-1856 


Rahu 

11-28-1862 


Jupiter 

11-28-1880 


Saturn 

11-28-1896 


Mercury 

11-28-1915 


Ketu 

11-28-1932 
Died 1939 



INATAL POSITIONS 

Ascendant 

17° 09'Libra 

Sun 

25° 58' Aries 

Moon 

24° 10' Taurus 

Mara 

13° 01'Virgo r 

Mercury 

07° 25' Taurus 

Jupiter 

09° 13' Pisces 

Venus 

05° 50'Aries 

Saturn 

07° 11'Gemini 

Rahu 

03° 07'Aries 

Ketu 

03° 07' Libra 

Uranus 

00° 11' Taurus 

Neptune 

29° 27' Aquarius 

Pluto 

14° 03'Aries 


Let us see how Vedic psychology looks at the founder of modem 
psychoanalysis. We notice a strong idealistic Libra Ascendant bent on 
changing the world by the introduction of new ideas. Ketu rising gives an 
introversion of the mind and sharp perception. The Seventh house of 
relationship and sexuality is very strong, with an exalted Sun, Venus and 
Rahu, showing a dominating personality focused on these domains. The 
close conjunction of Venus with Rahu, the indicator of the unconscious, 
gives a sensitivity towards the sexual responses of the collective mind. 
The exalted Sun gives insight and illumination of these regions. 

The Seventh house is also aspected by its lord Mars (by its aspect on 
the eighth sign from it). Mars in the TVelfth house gives Kuja Dosha, and 
along with strong planets in the Seventh house, shows difficulty in 
marriage and extramarital affairs. Mars in the Twelfth, the secret house, 
indicates probing, sometimes in a harsh or shocking way, into the uncon¬ 
scious, here of the Victorian or puritanical sign Virgo. Jupiter in the Sixth 
house of health and in Pisces, a sign of mental sensitivity, shows his 
service work in the domain of mental health. 

The Moon, exalted along with Mercury in the Eighth, a house of sex 
as well as mystery, also gives a strong involvement and ongoing preoc¬ 
cupation with the unconscious. Note that from the Moon sign, his Aries 
planets are located in the Twelfth house of what is hidden, the uncon¬ 
scious. 

In the harmonic ninth, the Sun, as the self-indicator (Atmakaraka), is 
located in Scorpio, a sexual sign, opposite Venus in its own sign of Taurus, 
showing again the fixation of the mind upon sex. On a spiritual level, 
Freud was blocked by his analysis of the outer Venus energy and was 
unable to understand the deeper levels of the psyche, though he often 
touched upon them. Saturn in the Ninth house gave him a skeptical and 
materialistic bent of mind that further held him down. Behind the sexual 












282 


The Astrology of the Seers 


desite is the natural bliss of consciousness wrongly externalized. This 
bliss, not sex, is the primary creative force. 

CHART NO. 7 — Poet 
LORO BYRON 




■ 

Us 

* 



Vr 

9 

RASH I 



CHAKRA 


♦ 




O 




ft 


Vr 


S 






<? 

O 

ft 


Asc 





NAVAMSHA 



Harmonic Ninth 

Bfi 




Ml 

9 

U 

¥ 


b 

9 




01-22-1788 02:00 PM. L.M.T 
51°N31‘ OOO'WOe', Ayanamsha 19° 20' 


INATAL POSITIONS 

Ascendant 

14° 46' Gemini 

Sun 


Moon 

05“ 49'Cancer 

Mare 

22“ 36' Gemini r 

Mercury 

29° 26' Sagittarius 

Jupiter 

27° 45' 'Diunis r 

Venus 

06“ 07' Aquarius 

Saturn 

08“ 37' Aquarius 

Rahu 

04“ 52' Sagittarius 

Ketu 

04“ 52' Gemini ' 

Uranus 

08° 33' Cancer r 

Neptune 

01“ 40'Libra r 

Pluto 

25“ 56' Capricorn 


II PLANETARY PERIODS 

Maha Dasha 

Begin 

Saturn 

01-22-1788 

Mercury 

07-14-1803 

Ketu 

07-14-1820 


Died 1824 


We mentioned, in our discussion on house lords, how Mars becomes 
a dangerous planet for Gemini Ascendant, and can cause injury or disease, 
from its rulership of two houses of violence — the Sixth and the Eleventh 
— as well as from its basic violent nature. Here Mars is in the Ascendant 
and aspects Mercury, the lord of the Ascendant (by its seventh or oppo¬ 
sition aspect). Ketu, the south lunar node, who is like Mars, participates 
in these aspects. From the Ascendant, Mars also aspects the Eighth house 
of longevity, wherein the Sun, another fiery planet, is located. If we add 


^7#it/<rZtra.Zc.a/ 







































Example Charts 283 

up these fiery and violent influences, the result is that Lord Byron was 
killed in battle in Greece, by a wound to the head, at the young age of 
thirty-six. It occurred in the middle of the planetary period of Ketu, known 
to make us susceptible to death in battle or other collective catastrophes 
when malefically placed, as it is in this chart. 

An impulsive and idealistic Gemini nature contributed to this action 
(which is often the cause of the accidents and injuries that Gemini gets 
more than any other Ascendant). A rash and expressive nature is indicated, 
placing itself dramatically in the line of fire. This spirit was strong in the 
Romantic era when Byron lived, and which he epitomized. 

As for poetic skills, there are a number of indications. Gemini itself 
is favorable as an intellectual sign. The Moon is full, in its own sign 
Cancer, in the Second house of speech, giving good powers of expression. 
Mercury is strongly placed in the Seventh, giving a good capacity to 
communicate to the other. Saturn and Venus are strong in the Ninth, giving 
high idealism and a humanitarian nature — Saturn being in its own sign 
of Aquarius and Venus ruling the Fifth house of creative intelligence. The 
Sun in the Eighth gives a profound but troubled character. Mercury is the 
self-indicator (Atmakaraka) and has an exchange with Jupiter in the 
harmonic ninth chart, further energizing the mind. 


CHART NO. 8 — Novelist 
HENRY MILLER 



Asc 

V 

Vk 

ft 


u 


RASHI 

CHAKRA 


9 





Sr 

0 

w 

■ 

■ 



d" 

y 

D 

Asc 

* 



NAVAMSHA 

Harmonic Ninth 

w 

ft 

0 



r 



t 12-26-1891 12:30 RM. L.M.T 

40°N38'073°W56', Ayanamsha 20° 53' 


£7 'HxixrlxrajjcjtLL 
















284 


The Astrology of the Seers 


INATAL POSITIONS 


Ascendant 

02“ 04'Aries 

Sun 

13“ 49' Sagittarius 

Moon 

21*54'Libra 

Mars 

20" 48'Libra 

Mercury 

18“ 56'Sag. r 

Jupiter 

21“ 43' Aquarius 

Venus 

08“ 16' Capricorn 

Saturn 

09“ 05'Virgo 



03° 17' Tiums 
03“ 17' Scorpio 
14“ 17' Libra 
16“ 02' Bmrus r 
16“ 29' Taurius r 


PLANETARY PERIODS 
Maha Dasha _ Begin 


Jupiter 

12-26-1891 

Saturn 

09-14-1905 

Mercury 

09-14-1924 

IKetu 

09-14-1941 

Venus 

09-14-1948 

Sun 

09-14-1968 

Moon 

09-14-1974 


Died 1982 


This is a good example of a headstrong Aries Ascendant, with a 
Cardinal and Rajasic nature — the more mental side of Mars energy. 
Henry Miller was an independent and revolutionary writer, showing the 
driving and leading force of Aries. He was perhaps the only American 
who could hold his own with the great European artists and writers of his 
age. He has a somewhat undeserved reputation as a writer of pornography, 
owing to the harsh language he often used, but was in fact a bit of a mystic 
and studied many spiritual and Yogic teachings. 

His Moon-Mars conjunction, in the social sign Libra in the Seventh 
house, shows his many wives and relationships. His Kuja Dosha is very 
strong, and some women react against his writings as too male oriented. 
Mars aspects the Second, the house of speech, and its lord (Venus), which 
would be expected for someone with a sharp mind and biting sarcasm. 
Rahu in the Second house magnifies this. His Venus, ruler of the Second 
house of speech, located in the Tenth house of fame in Capricorn, shows 
his focus on the earthy and sexual part of life in his writings and his 
recognition for it. His Sun-Mercury conjunction in philosophical 
Sagittarius in the Ninth house of dharma, reveals his deeper nature, and 
his Jupiter in Aquarius shows his broader humanitarianism. Saturn in the 
Sixth in Virgo gave him self-discipline in writing. 

In the harmonic ninth, the Moon, as the self-indicator (Atmakaraka), 
is also located in Aries with Mars and Jupiter, reinforcing his self-focused 
and expressive Aries Ascendant. Aries people often love to talk about 
themselves. 

His Mercury Major period brought out his best writings, after much 
suffering and poverty during the period of Saturn. It was not until the 
period of Venus and its Tenth house influence, however, that he really 
gained the recognition he deserved. 


ttxlxrlxFTL Ic.aZ 










Example Charts 


2 85 


CHART NO. 9 — Avatar 
LORD RAMA 


9 

o 

9 

V 


RASHI CHAKRA 

n 

» 

Asc 

d> 




a 





This is a the chart of a great emperor and general, yet avatar and yogi, 
Lord Rama, the seventh incarnation of Vishnu, who is said to have lived 
in the Tfeta Yuga (c. 4000 B.C.). His story is told in the famous epic, the 
Ramayana. 

Obviously, it is an exceptional chart with five exalted planets — four 
in angles, the other in the Ninth, the best THne — both from the Ascendant 
and the Moon. The chart shows a very Cardinal, or strong willed nature, 
that can accomplish whatever goal it seeks. It shows the Divine will in 
incarnation. Mars and Jupiter (rulers of the Ninth and Tenth), in mutual 
aspect give a strong Raja Yoga. Malefic Sun, Mars and Saturn dominate 
the angles and could produce a cruel disposition, but they are balanced by 
the aspect of Jupiter. They still led Rama into a great war. Mars in the 
Seventh house caused a separation from his wife, Sita. The aspects of 
Saturn and Rahu on the Tenth house caused a temporary loss of his 
kingdom. Venus exalted in the Ninth gives a strong devotional nature. 
Ketu in the Twelfth gave him liberation. 

The combinations for wealth are very strong also. The lord of the 
Eleventh house of gains (Venus) is exalted in the Ninth. The lord of the 
Ninth house of fortune (Jupiter) is exalted in the First. The lord of the 
Second house of income (the Sun) is exalted in the Tenth house of success. 
The lord of the Fifth house of prosperity (Mars) is exalted in the Seventh. 
Mercury, as lord of the Twelfth house of loss, located in the Eleventh 
house of income, shows hi? charitable nature behind this. 

Some consider this to be an imaginary chart, but it certainly agrees 
with the life and character of Rama. Rama was called Ramachandra, Rama 
of the Moon, as the lunar nature of this chart indicates. 







286 Th e Astrology of the Seers 

CHART NO. 10 — Spiritual Teacher 
RAMANA MAHARSHI 


V 


X5 

m 

V 



9 

s 





NAVAMSHA 



Harmonic Ninth 


V 

ft 


<S 

Asc 

<? 








12-30-1879 01:15 A.M. I..M.T 


m 



W 

> 

u 





RASHI 



CHAKRA 





Vr 


9 

Asc 



9 . 








09°N55' 078^10', Ayanamsha 20° 43' 


Snatal positions 



■ i 

1 Ascendant 

03° 59' Libra 




■ 

Sun 

17° 05' Sagittarius 


Jupiter 

12-30-1879 


|Moon 

29° 56'Gemini 


Saturn 

01-27-1884 


Mars 

23° 27'Aries 


Mercury 

01-27-1903 


| Mercury 

24° 36'Scorpio 


Ketu 

01-27-1920 


UJupiter 

17° 58' Aquarius 


Venus 

01-27-1927 


| Venus 

01° 58' Scorpio 


Sun 

.01-27-1947 


n Saturn 

18° 32' Pisces 



Died 1950 


IRahu 

25° 23' Sagittarius 





Ketu 

25° 23' Gemini 





| Uranus 

18° lO'LeoR 





jNeptune 

18° 39' Aries r 





1 Pluto 

05° 00'Taurus r 





Ramana N 

laharshi is perhaps the most famous en 

lightened sage c 


modem India, a great jnani or master of spiritual knowledge. He had a 
spontaneous realization at the age of seventeen, while meditating upon 
death. Jupiter, the indicator of spirituality, is strong in the Fifth, the house 
of intelligence and past karma, in the spiritual sign Aquarius, and it aspects 
both the Ascendant and the Moon. Jupiter is in the Ninth, the religious 
house, from the Moon. The Moon is strong, a day after full, in sensitive 
Gemini and in the Ninth house from the Ascendant. As the lord of the 
Tenth house of recognition, the Moon gives fame, and popularity as a 
teacher. 

The Sun is in the Third, a house of discipline, and in Sagittarius, the 
religious sign of Jupiter. The lunar nodes give the luminaries powers of 


ttxlxrlxFTL I-G-ClL 























Example Charts 287 

higher consciousness; Rahu elevating the Sun, and Ketu deepening the 
Moon. This combination of the Sun and Moon with Rahu and Ketu, in 
Mutable signs and Cadent houses, shows self-knowledge and the illumi¬ 
nation of the mind. It shows much time spent in meditation and seclusion. 

Mars aspects the Ascendant and the Second hpuse, giving a high and 
piercing intelligence. Saturn in the Sixth house of service gives asceticism 
and renunciation. Mars is particularly strong, being at an angle from the 
Ascendant and in its own sign (giving Ruchaka Yoga). It is also in its own 
sign in the harmonic ninth chart. Yet it was the ascetic side of the Mars 
influence, not the military side that came out for Ramana. This is owing 
to the strength of Jupiter and the Ninth house. Ramana was considered to 
be an incarnation of Skanda or Murugan, the God of the planet Mars, who 
on an inner level represents knowledge and asceticism. 

The Moon is the self-indicator (Atmakaraka). It is well-placed in 
Gemini (vargottama) in the harmonic ninth chart, in which it is in an angle 
from benefic Jupiter in Pisces, with Mercury, the lord of the Moon, in the 
ninth sign (Aquarius) from it. 

CHART NO. 11 — Spiritual Teacher i 

SRI AUR0B1ND0 



o 


ft 

9 

1 _ 


NAVAMSHA 

Harmonic Ninth 


M • H 


0 

b 

9 

V 



08-15-1872 05:00 A.M. L.M.T 
22°N36' 088 o E24\ Ayanamsha 20° 36' 



Wr 

♦ 

ft 



RASHI 

CHAKRA 

<7 

¥ 

y 

Asc_ 




W: 

*R 

0 
















288 77te Astrology of the Seers 


(NATAL POSITIONS 


PLANETARY PERIODS 

] Ascendant 

22° 44' Cancer 


Maha Dasha 

Begin 

Sun 

Of 47'Leo 


Ketu 

08-15-1872 

Moon 

06" 59’ Sagittarius 


Venus 

12-14-1875 

Mars 

06° 51’ Cancer 


Sun 

12-14-1895 

Mercury 

24° 59' Leo 


Moon 

12-14-1901 

Jupiter 

23*03' Cancer 


Mars 

12-14-1911 

Venus 

09“ 59'Leo 


Rahu 

12-14-1918 

Saturn 

24* 58’Sag. r 


Jupiter 

12-14-1934 

Rahu 

18* 06' Taurus 



Died 1950 

Ketu 

18“ 06' Scorpio 




Uranus 

12“ 12'Cancer 




Neptune 

05“ 38' Aries r 




Pluto 

00“ 12' Thurus 





Sri Aurobindo was a major figure in the Indian independence move¬ 
ment before Gandhi, but renounced politics to become a great yogi. Mars 
and Jupiter rising in Cancer are a strong political combination and 
potential Raja Yoga (Jupiter as the lord of the Ninth and Mars as lord of 
the Tenth). Mars has cancellation of debility in two ways (being in the 
Ascendant and with an exalted Jupiter). Yet this political and world- 
changing orientation Aurobindo applied to his Yoga. He became a revo¬ 
lutionary in that field, striving to bring a stronger Divine grace into human 
life — into the physical body itself. Ketu’s aspect on the Ascendant was 
important for giving him the capacity to reverse himself in life. 

The Sun, Mercury and Venus, in the Second house in Leo, is a good 
combination for poetry. Sri Aurobindo was a great poet, linguist and 
philologist, a prolific writer. These planets are also in the Ninth, or 
spiritual house, from the Moon, showing the spiritual and philosophical 
nature of his writings. Saturn combined with the Moon gives detachment 
and spirituality in Sagittarius, a sign of Jupiter, and gives work and service 
(Karma Yoga) the Sixth, a house of service. It also helps make him a great 
philosopher. 

Both Jupiter and the Moon, the lords of the First and Ninth houses, 
are in mutual reception, creating an overall spiritual and religious nature. 
With all this Cancer influence, not surprisingly Aurobindo was a great 
devotee of the Divine Mother. 

He died at the end of Jupiter’s period, perhaps under the influence of 
malefic Saturn, whose period was about to begin. 


^M.cLcrl^l^a.L < EJiw4JlA. 



Example Charts 


289 


CHART NO. 12 — Mass Murderer 
THEODORE BUNDY 



u 

Asc 


IP 

9 

HP 



ft 

■ 1 



9 


NAVAMSHA 


V 

Harmonic Ninth 


u 




<? 






o 

V 


11-24-1946 10:35 EM. E.S.T 




Vr 

ft 



RASHI 

CHAKRA 

■ 


Asc 

t 


n 

y 

«R 

ip 


44°N29' 073°W12', Ayanamsha 21° 43' 


(NATAL POSITIONS 

Ascendant 

03° 20' Leo 

Sun. 

10° 33' Scorpio 

Moon 

25° 58' Scorpio 

IMars 

21° 39' Scorpio 

Mercury 

02° 46' Scorpio r 

Jupiter 

21°21'Libra 

Venus 

28° 55'Libra r 

Saturn 

17° 09'Cancer r 

Rahu 

20° 23' Taurus S 

Ketu 

20° 23' Scorpio | 

Uranus 

28° 49' ’Burus r 

Neptune 

18° 30'Virgo 

Pluto 

21°41'Cancer r 


PLANETARY PERIODS 
Ms ha Dasha _ Begin 


i] Mercury 

11-24-1946 

Ketu 

01-13-1952 

| Venus 

01-13-1959 

Sun 

01-13-1979 s 

Moon 

01-13-1985 


Died 1989 


As we have seen a number of spiritual charts that show the illumina¬ 
tion of the mind, let us examine a typical chart that shows the darkening 
of the mind and the forces of evil and ignorance. This is the chart of a 
mass murderer of young women, Theodore Bundy. The chart is saturated 
with violence and sex, and shows the darkest part of the Scorpio influence. 

Five planets are in troubled Scorpio. Most noticeable is the debilitated 
Moon, malefic as it is just past new. Before it in Scorpio there is a 
conjunction of the three fiery planets; Mars, Ketu and the Sim. Finally, 
we have Mercury, which by its Mutable nature takes on and magnifies the 
influence of Mars. The Fourth house, the Moon, Mercury, and the lord of 
the Fourth house (Mars) are all severely afflicted, showing a deranged 
mind and emotional nature. The Moon brings with it the influence of 

























290 The Astrology of the Seers 

Saturn and Pluto, which it rules in Cancer. The Sun, as the lord of the 
Ascendant, is also strongly malefically influenced. Here we see Mars 
energy at its worst, a mind saturated with violence. 

Jupiter and Venus are at the end of Libra in a cross sign conjunction 
with the planets in Scorpio. Such a close grouping of planets, particularly 
with strongly disposed malefics, is not regarded as good. The planetary 
rays get all confused and murky (particularly in Scorpio). The benefic 
conjunction of Venus and Jupiter in Libra allowed him to appear like a 
nice person and to attract women, as does the generally warm and 
expressive Leo Ascendant. Yet in the Third, a martial house, Jupiter and 
Venus are an impulsive combination, and kept him preoccupied with sex. 
Saturn, in the Twelfth house of loss, shows his negative fate and time spent 
in prison. Such a person displays a very dark but hidden character, and 
can appear outwardly friendly, helpful and affectionate. They thrive on 
the drama and the polarity generated by this deception. It was no doubt 
that inflated ego, the need for drama (Leo), and the love of deception 
(Scorpio) which motivated him. Quite often behind attempts to get 
attention from others is the ego’s need for power and drama, which can 
become violence, when the darkness and ignorance behind it comes out 
into the open. 

Bundy was executed on January 24,1989. This was during the Moon 
Major period, Jupiter Minor period, shortly before the commencement of 
the Saturn Minor period. Jupiter is lord of the Eighth House of death. It 
is in the TWelfth House, or house of endings, from the Moon. 


CHART NO. 13 — Musician 
WOLFGANG AMADEUS MOZART 





R 

V 



Wr 

u 

RASHI 


9 

CHAKRA 


* 



n 

9 



Asc 






V 


V 






m 

m 

V 

0 

9 

0 


NAVAMSHA 


V 

9 

<? 

Harmonic Ninth 



a 

Asc 



01-27-1756 08:00 P.M. L.M.T 
47°N48' 013°E0r, Ayanamsha 18° 51’ 


£7 ^HxtxrlxralcjaJ. 


















Example Charts 


291 



1 Ascendant 

22° 22'Leo ? 

Sun 

18° 32' Capricorn | 

IMoon 

28° 52' Scorpio 

Man 

11° 29' Gemini r 

Mercury 

19° 17' Capricorn | 

Jupiter 

29° 40'Virgo 

Venus 

10° 28'Aquarius 

Saturn 

13° 08'Capricorn 

Rahu 

24° 00'Leo 

Ketu 

24° 00’ Aquarius 

Uranus 

24° 12' Aquarius 

Neptune 

20° 38'Cancer r 

Pluto 

28° 47' Scorpio 


PLANETARY PERIODS 
Maha Dasha_ Begin 


Mercury 

01-27-1756 

Ketu 

07-08-1757 

Venus 

07-08-1764 

Sun 

07-08-1784 ’ 

Moon 

07-08-1790 

- 

Died 1791 


At first sight, we see a rather weak chart here, particularly in terms of 
health and psychology. The Sun, as lord of the Ascendant, is very weak. 
It is in the Sixth house of disease, along with malefic Saturn and combust 
Mercury, and aspected by malefic Mars. The Moon is in debility in 
Scorpio, in isolation, and hemmed in by malefic aspects. Such a Moon 
gives a troubled mind, and a propensity for alcoholism, or delusions. It is 
also in a close conjunction with Pluto (suggesting Mozart might have been 
poisoned). Not surprisingly, Mozart died during the first year of the Moon 
Major period. 

Rahu, on the Ascendant in Leo, magnifies but disturbs his personality. 
The many planets in the Sixth house make him compelled to be a servant 
of others. Saturn is the final dispositor of all the planets in the chart and 
creates a sense of hardship in life. We also see the influence of stem Saturn 
on Mozart’s musical sense; the classical style of order and harmony. 

Jupiter is the self-indicator (Atmakaraka). Being in the same sign in 
both the Birth and ninth harmonic Charts (vargottama), it is mainly 
responsible for his musical genius, as Jupiter is the planet of music in the 
Vedic system. Jupiter is in the Second, a house of self-expression and in 
Virgo, a sign of order, structure and purity. His last and greatest symphony 
was perhaps not coincidentally called “Jupiter.” Jupiter in the Second 
house raised him up to fame in youth, the period marked by that house. 
The Ketu and Venus periods of youth were favorable to him in terms of 
fortune. 

Many indications of strong intellectual powers exist: Mars, the math¬ 
ematical planet, aspects the Second house of intelligence and its lord from 
both the Ascendant and the Moon (Mercury), giving a strong mathemat¬ 
ical-musical bent to the mind and a powerful memory. It also aspects the 
Fifth house of creative intelligence and its lord (Jupiter). Mozart could 



















292 The Astrology of the Seers 

compose music in his head, including whole symphonies. This aspect of 
Mars on the Second also shows his famous crude speech. 

Mars in the Eleventh house, as lord of the Ninth, and Jupiter in the 
Second, as lord of the Fifth, give him potential good income and recog¬ 
nition.' However, the planets in the Sixth caused him to overwork and 
overspend. 

The harmonic ninth chart is strong, much better than the Ascendant, 
with an exalted Mars in the Fifth and Mercury in its own sign in the Tenth 
from the self-indicator (Atmakaraka) Jupiter in Virgo. 

CHART NO. 14 — General and Emperor / , t. 

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE 



V 


9 

V 


RASHI 

CHAKRA 

9 

b 

a 




n 


V 

Asc 



9 

a 

i 

■ 

■ 


NAVAMSHA 



Harmonic Ninth 


9 

0 


■ 



u 




& 

H 


08-15-1769 11:30 A.M. L.M.T 
41° N55' 008°E40', Ayanamsha 19° 03 ' 


IlNATAL POSITIONS 


liiASii a « Vi 1A } M iTSHlI 

Ascendant 



ITnWiWTBI 


Sun 

03° 44' Leo 


Moon 

08-15-1769 

Moon 

10“ IT Capricorn 


Mars 

06-26-1779 

Mars 

23“ 01'Leo 


Rahu 

06-26-1786 

Mercury 

17“ 09-Cancer 


Jupiter 

06-26-1804 

Jupiter 

25“ 58' Libra 


Saturn 

06-26-1820 

Venus 

18“01' Gemini 



Died 1821 

Saturn 

06“ 51'Cancer 




Rahu 

01“ 45' Sagittarius 




Ketu 

01° 45' Gemini 




Uranus 

22“ 19'Aries 




Neptune 

19° 30'Leo 




Pluto 

24“ 23'Sag. r 





We can use Vedic astrology for chart rectification. The exact time of 
Napoleon s birth is not known. By the laws of Vedic astrology he would 
have to be Libra Ascendant, because this Ascendant on that day shows 


£7 ^HxtxrlxralcjaJ. 





























Example Charts 


2 93 


the potential to create an emperor. It demonstrates several Raja Yogas, 
planetary combinations that can create kings. We can be less certain of 
the exact time of birth, but it is probably close to noon, as that brings these 
Yogas strongly into play. 

For Libra Ascendant (according to the standard rules), Saturn is the 
main planet that can create Raja Yoga, as it rules both a Thine and Quadrant 
(the Fourth and Fifth houses). In this chart, it is located in the Tenth house, 
giving it great power. The Moon, as lord of the Tenth house, can also create 
Raja Yoga for Libra Ascendant. Both Saturn and the Moon are in mutual 
reception, thus creating even greater power. This is stronger than if each 
planet was in its own sign, as the mutual aspect is reinforcing. To this is 
added Mercury, the lord of the Ninth house, the other great benefic and 
Raja Yoga planet for Libra. It adds strength to Saturn and prevents the 
quick fall that would occur, if Saturn were alone in the Tenth. This makes 
for three strong Raja Yoga combinations and in the strongest angles of the 
chart. The natural Raja Yoga of Saturn, along with that created by full 
aspects between the lords of the Ninth and Tenth (Mercury and the Moon), 
combine. It would be difficult to imagine a stronger such combination for 
political power. 

Jupiter in the Ascendant gives an aggressive and expansive nature as 
lord of the Third and Sixth, two houses of power. The Sun and Mars, in 
Leo and the Eleventh house of gains, show a dominating personality, 
power of leadership, generalship, and the capacity to win kingdoms. 
Venus, as lord of the Ascendant, is well-placed in the Ninth house, giving 
luck and fortune. 

We see a charismatic leader, possessed of a great idealism, who can 
influence the masses. It is true he fell from power after a time. This was 
mainly from the rash influence of Jupiter (who incidentally also stands 
for the British in his chart, as it is the ruler of the Sixth house of enemies). 
We note in his planetary periods that Rahu raised him to power, whereas 
Jupiter caused his downfall. His downfall was mainly his own doing. 
Astrologically, he had a fall coming, but more in the period of Saturn. His 
impulsive and unnecessary invasion of Russia overextended his resources. 
It was a product of the egoism that began in 1804, when he proclaimed 
himself emperor. Still, we see in his chart an idealistic and noble person, 
quite unlike the negative Mars-Satum combination in Hitler’s chart. 


^7#if/<rZcra.Zc.a/ < EJfujjtJ±A r 



2 94 The Astrology of the Seers 

CHART NO. 15 — Occultist 
H. P. BLAVATSKY 


a 



Asc 

0 


G 


RASHI 

CHAKRA 




0 

Vr 


ft 

Vr 


<? 

«J!_ 


b 




9 






G 

ft 

$ 

J 

Asc 








km 


NAVAMSHA 


y 

Harmonic Ninth 


V 






V 

y 




c 


08-12-1831 02:17 A.M. L.M.T 
48°N27' 035°E01', Ayanamsha 19° 59' 


Inatal positions 

Ascendant 

29“ 32' Gemin ' 

Sun 

28“ 30'Cancer 

Moon 

19“ 32' Virgo 

Mars 


Mercury 


Jupiter 


Venus 


Saturn 


Rahu 

01“ 54'Leo 

Ketu 

01° 54' Aquarius 

Uranus 

22“ 14' Cap. r 

Neptune 

02“ 52'Cap. r 

Pluto 

20“ 28'Pisces r 

= _ == - = ^__ 




Moon 

08-21-1831 

Mars 

06-19-1834 

Rahu 

06-19-1841 

Jupiter 

06-19-1859 

Saturn 

06-19-1875 

Mercury 

06-19-1894 


Died 1891 


H.P. Blavatsky was a great occultist and prolific author. Most of the 
modem Western occult movement has its origin in her work and through 
such followers of her’s as Annie Besant, Rudolf Steiner and Alice Bailey. 
The impact of her work was strongly felt in her own lifetime in Europe, 
America and India. 1 

The chart shows a strong Mercury influence. The Ascendant and 
Moon, in both the Birth and harmonic ninth Charts, are in signs of 
Mercury. Gemini, the most communicative and intellectual of the signs, 
is rising. 

The Moon, with benefic Venus in the Fourth house of the mind, gives 
a very creative, sensitive, and spiritual mind, and the capacity to write 
many books. Note that Venus is both lord of the spiritual Ninth house from 


^M.cLcrl^l^a.L tfiLUjtivA. 





























Example Charts 


295 


the Moon and lord of the Fifth house of creative intelligence from the 
Ascendant. The debility of Venus in Virgo is cancelled by angularity from 
both the Ascendant and the Moon, and it functions thereby better than 
exalted. Such a strong Venus dominates the chart and gives Blavatsky 
broad intellectual powers, occult perception, knowledge of the subtle 
worlds, as well as a compassion — the deeper side of Venus energy. 

Mercury has powerful conjunctions in both the Birth and ninth 
harmonic Charts, being exalted in the latter. In the Birth Chart, it is with 
Saturn, the lord of the Ninth house of dharma. Ketu in the Ninth house 
gives insight and perception on a deep level. Her strong planets in the 
Third house give her much curiosity, a powerful will, a critical mind, and 
a strong vital energy. The Sun in the Second also gives strong powers of 
speech and communication. 

Jupiter is doubly the significator of relationship for Gemini women, 
naturally indicating the husband, and also representing him as lord of the 
Seventh house. Her Jupiter is poorly placed in the difficult Eighth house, 
and in its fall in Capricorn, showing the corrupt, materialistic background 
of the upper class Russian men she had to deal with. Blavatsky had two 
very short and difficult marriages. 

We see no obvious Yogas in this chart. Yet we must consider the 
cancelled debility of Venus to in effect give the Mahapurusha yoga for 
that planet, as if it were exalted. As often with canceled debility, the planet 
works on a more inward and subtle level. 

CHART NO. 16 — Occultist, Social Reformer V 

ANNIE BESANT 


Vr 

W 

Asc 



■ 

M 

RASHI 

CHAKRA 







0 

n 

9r 

S 


m 

■ 

O' 

n 

21 

G 

V 



9 


NAVAMSHA 



Harmonic Ninth 

0 

V 

<? ' 



0 

Asc 




10-01-1847 05:30 P.M. L.M.T 
51°N30’ 000°W05', Ayanamsha 20° 14' 


^M.cLerlcry.l^a.L 
















296 The Astrology of the Seers 


IInatal positions 


PLANETARY 

PERIODS 

1 Ascendant 

15" 08'Pisces 


Maha Dasha 

Begin 

Sun 

17” 40'Virgo 


Jupiter 

10-01-1847 

Moon 

22” 38'Gemini 


Saturn 

08-02-1860 

flMars 

24° 57' Aries r 


Mercury 

08-02-1879 

Mercury 

26” 25'Virgo 


Ketu 

08-02-1896 

Jupiter 

28” 10* Gemini 


Venus 

08-02-1903 

Venus 

20” 48'Virgo r 


Sun 

08-02-1923 

Saturn 

Rahu 

Ketu 

Uranus 

Neptune 

|Pluto 

17° 15' Aquarius r 
19”31' Virgo 
19”31'Pisces 

26” 18' Pisces r 

07“ 43' Aquarius r 
05” 59' Aries r 


Moon 

08-02-1929 

Died 


Annie Besant was not only an important figure in the Theosophical 
Movement, she was also one of the most important figures in the Indian 
independence movement. She first gave Gandhi the title of Mahatma. In 
addition, she was the spiritual mother of the great teacher, J. Krishnamurti. 

Her chart is highly energetic and communicative, with predominantly 
Angular planets in Mutable signs. The Moon conjuncts Jupiter, the lord 
of the Ascendant, and gives much compassion, and a strong sense of 
humanity, located in the communicative sign Gemini and the Fourth house 
of the mind. Spiritual Jupiter is in the same sign in the harmonic ninth 
(vargottama) and Birth Chart, and is her self-indicator (Atmakaraka). She 
did tremendous work for expanding grace and knowledge in the world, 
yet enjoyed her life in the process. 

The Seventh house is very strong with the Sun, Rahu, Mercury and 
Venus, and she had many relationships and affairs. She was very attrac¬ 
tive, charming and communicative. Venus has its debility canceled by its 
association with exalted Mercury, and by its angularity from both the 
Ascendant and Moon. Mercury becomes most prominent, giving Bhadra 
Yoga (its Mahapurusha Yoga, being exalted at an angle from both Ascen¬ 
dant and Moon). It gives strength of speech and writing, augmented 
further by Mars in the Second house of speech in its own sign Aries, which 
adds the power of logic. This gave her great talent and genius in the mind, 
but the capacity to express and work with it in the sphere of social action. 
Besant was constantly active, moving, travelling, writing and talking. 

The position of Saturn, in its own sign in the TWelfth house of loss, 
aided in giving her detachment and the capacity of self-sacrifice necessary 
to direct her mind to more spiritual issues. Ketu, the planet of doubt and 
insight rising, aided in this internalization of her energies. Otherwise, she 
could have just been a prominent society lady or artist. 


57 ^HxLxrLxrajjCjaJ. 

















Example Charts 


297 


CHART NO. 17 — Healer 
ELISABETH KIJBLER-ROSS 


cT 


9 


9 

RASHl 

CHAKRA 

9 

■ 


U 

% 

m 




V 

a 

9 


9 

o 

H 

m 



9 


NAVAMSHA 


9 

Harmonic Ninth 


5 





0 


V 


21 




Asc 




07-08-1926 10:15 P.M. L.S.T. 


47°N23' 008°E32', Ayanamsha 21° 25' 


[natal positions 


Ascendant 

05° 33' Aquarius 

Sun 

24° 31'Gemini 

Moon 

12° 13' Gemini 

Mars 

24° 28' Pisces 

Mercury 

20° 48'Cancer 

Jupiter 

04° 58' Aquarius r 

Venus 

20“ 20' Tiurus 

Saturn 

28° 12' Libra r 

Rahu 

24° 54' Gemini 

Ketu 

24° 54' Sagittarius 

Uranus 

08° 04' Pisces r 

Neptune 

Pluto 

01° 44' Leo 

22° 55' Gemini 


l 


pit.. . 


■TVi 

Rahu 

07-08-1926 

Jupiter 

01-07-1937 

Saturn 

01-07-1953 

Mercury 

01-07-1972 

Ketu 

01-07-1989 

Venus 

01-07-1996 


Elisabeth Kiibler-Ross was the first of triplets. Usually the child bom 
first in multiple births has better strength, and gains more of the force of 
the planets in the chart. An unusual birth is indicated by several factors: 
The Moon, the significator of birth, is waning and near new, and under 
the primarily malefic influences of the Sun, Rahu, Pluto, and Mars. The 
Sun conjuncts Rahu to within a degree, which divides up the life-energy 
or Pranic force. An eclipse of the Sun occurred the day after her birth. The 
force of Rahu, and its influence on Sun, Moon, and the Ascendant lord 
(Saturn), is the main factor behind the multiple birth. 

This chart shows a very airy nature. The Ascendant, Sun and Moon 
are all in air signs, with a predominance of Mutable qualities in the chart. 


^M.cLerlcry.l^a.L 




























298 The Astrology of the Seers 

The soul thereby is very sensitive, seeks to ascend and is not that 
connected with its physical vehicle. There is much compassion with 
Jupiter rising in Aquarius, and the lord of the Ascendant (Saturn) exalted 
in Libra in the Ninth house of religion. Venus, in its own sign in Taurus 
and in an angle (the Fourth house), gives the planetary yoga for it 
(Malavya Yoga), providing additional sensitivity. Hence, this is the chart 
of a healer, one who can enter into psychic rapport with her patients. It 
could even be the chart of a medium. 

Mars, in the Second house and a sensitive sign Pisces, gives good 
intelligence and intuition. Mercury, in the Sixth house of service and 
compassionate Cancer, shows a mind dedicated to service. 

Rahu’s usual negative influence is balanced by the aspect of Jupiter 
and the exaltation of Saturn. Here Rahu serves to give an openness of the 
astral nature, whereby a deep level of communion and understanding can 
exist. The individual is not tied to the physical body or the senses. Rahu 
is also the significator of the after-death state in Vedic astrology. The work 
of Kubler-Ross has been primarily with the terminally ill and Rahu shows 
their grip upon her through the Sun and Moon. 

CHART NO. 18 — Actress 
SHIRLEY MCLAINE 


e 

ESS*’ 4 ! 


■ 


V 


V 


RASHI 

u 


CHAKRA 


n 



Vr 

■ 



i 

I 


■ 

on 

1 

1 

i 



Asc 


V 

9 


0 



rm 

8 



I'Jfl I 

■■■■ 

NAVAMSHA 






'r 1 - ^ - ■ 



1 





1 

■ 




04-24-1934 03:57 P.M. E.S.T 
37°N33' 077°W27', Ayanamsha 21° 32' 


fFn-dcrLmic-CLL < EJHjidJ±A. 











299 



04-24-1934 

02-21-1951 

02-21-1957 

02-21-1967 

02-21-1974 

02-21-1992 

02-21-2008 


Here we have a typical chart of an actress. Virgo, a Mutable and Earth 
sign, good for acting and playing roles, is rising. There is an exchange 
between the lords of the Ascendant and the Seventh houses, with Jupiter 
in Virgo and Mercury in Pisces. Mercury also has its debility canceled by 
its angularity. This exchange between the planets representing the self 
(First house) and the other (Seventh house) in Mutable signs gives the 
capacity to portray different characters. It makes the person a chameleon 
who can assume almost any appearance relative to her environment and 
casting. The self can easily take on the role of the other; yet this is done 
with skill and intention. It also gives the capacity for many relationships, 
and a highly communicative and social nature. 

The Eighth house is strong with an exalted Sun, and Mars in its own 
sign, Aries. This gives a strong will and sexual energy. Along with the 
Leo Moon it makes her psycho-physical nature rather fiery (Pitta). In the 
TVvelfth house, her Moon shows a dramatic, deep, but often hidden 
emotional nature. The planetary positions from the Moon are also strong 
with Saturn and Venus in the Seventh house from it, giving additional 
power and prominence in relationship and social communication. 

Her Rahu period, in progress from 1974-1992, has brought about her 
interest in the occult and spiritual aspects of life. Rahu in the Fifth house 
(past life karma), and in Capricorn (an earth sign), suggests a karma of 
influencing the public about these things, yet possible illusion and entan¬ 
glement in the process. Her Jupiter period, which starts in 1992, may bring 
more clarity into her spiritual life, but there is the danger she may project 
herself as a spiritual teacher — a role she can play, but one she may not 
be entirely entitled to, or ready for. 

Her self-indicator (Atmakaraka) is artistic Venus, strong in its own 
sign in the Taurus harmonic ninth chart. Her chart also demonstrates that 
Venus is an exceptional planet, in that it often does well in the Twelfth or 
Sixth houses. 
























300 


The Astrology of the Seers 


CHART NO. 19 — Scientist 
MADAME CURIE 


®R 

J> 

a 


m 

0 

u 


RASHI 

CHAKRA 

Asc 

* 





a 


m 

G 




V 

w 

O 



% 

NAVAMSHA 

■ 

V 

Harmonic Ninth 

9 

Asc 

u 

v 

9 

n 

■ 


11-07-1867 08:44 P.M. L.M.T 
52°N13' 021°E00', Ayanamsha 20° 32' 


PLANETARY PERIODS 

Maha Dasha _ Begin 

Jupiter 11-07-1867 

Saturn 02-15-1871 

Mercury 02-15-1890 

Ketu 02-15-1907 

Venus 02-15-1914 

Sun 02-15-1934 

Died 


who, along with her husband Pierre, 
discovered radioactivity. Vedic astrology places much emphasis on the 
Fifth house forjudging intelligence. Here the Fifth house is quite promi¬ 
nent. It is in Scorpio, a sign of profound research, boosted up by Mars, 
lord of the sign, who is also himself a research and technology oriented 
planet. Mercury, the ruler of the intellect, is in the Fifth, along with Venus, 
the ruler of the Fourth house of the mind (which also brings to bear also 
the illumining power of the Sun through being its dispositor). 

A special rule in Vedic astrology is that the placement of the lord of 
the Eighth in the Fifth gives good intelligence and research capacity. 
Saturn, lord of the Eighth (Aquarius), has such a position in this chart. It 
carries with it the influence of benefic Jupiter, which it rules, and as lord 
of the Seventh brings the influence of the husband to bear on the research 



Ascendant 

05° 12' Cancer 

Sun 

24° 25' Libra 

Moon 

00° 36'Pisces 

Mars 

09° 21' Scorpio 

Mercury 

16° 17' Scorpio 

Jupiter 

07° 30' Aquarius 

Venus 

05° 30'Scorpio 

Saturn 

04° 47'Scorpio 

Rahu 

20° 25' Leo 

Ketu 

20° 25' Aquarius 

Uranus 

22° 10’ Gemini r 

Neptune 

22° 17' Pisces r 

Pluto 

24° 33' Aries r 




































301 


Example Charts 

also. Her strong Fifth house brought knowledge and recognition. Jupiter, 
in the Eighth house with insightful Ketu, adds to the capacity for research 
and invention. The Pisces Moon in the Ninth gives additional mental and 
intuitive powers. 

Such a powerful placement of planets in Scorpio gives not only a 
profound but hidden, and sometimes deceptive mind. She must have been 
very attached to and protective of her knowledge. It is likely that she knew 
more about the side-effects of radioactivity than she indicated, and 
struggled to keep them hidden out of this sense of attachment. Radioac¬ 
tivity itself appears as a Scorpionic force. 

Most of her discoveries and the gaining of fame came during 
Mercury’s Major period — its Mutable nature functioned like Mars (the 
Raja Yoga planet for Cancer Ascendant), through its conjunction with it. 


CHART N0.20 — Cult Figure 
JIM JONES 



„ ,1.. 



05-13-1931 10:00 P.MC.S.X 
40°N03' 084°W56', Ayanamsha 21° 29' 



^7#it/<rZtra.Zc.a/ < EJhjj^J±A. 














































302 The Astrology of the Seers 

This chart demonstrates many key points in astrology. Jim Jones was 
a disturbed religious-political leader, who brought himself and his follow¬ 
ers to a mass collective suicide in Guyana in November of 1978. 

His chart shows how Rahu can be a very disturbing planet. Note the 
position of the Moon. It is in Pisces, a sensitive or Mutable sign and 
waning, and in the Fourth house which represents the mind. It is within 
one degree of Rahu. In the Vedic system, its only major planetary aspect 
is from dark Saturn. It is also the depositor of a fallen Mars in the Eighth 
house of death. In addition, it is in conjunction with erratic Uranus. Such 
factors show an overly reactive and defensive mind, and the use of drugs. 
The darkness, paranoia, and self-destructiveness of the mind are thus 
evident — the potential for such extreme delusion that it could offer 
hundreds in a ritual suicide. How can one say that Rahu is functioning 
like Jupiter here, as Western astrology would have it? The Sun, Moon, 
Rahu, Saturn conjunction in the harmonic ninth shows a similar negative 
mental state in that chart. 

Mars, as might be expected in a chart like this, is in its fall in Cancer 
— close to its point of maximum debility — in the Eighth house of death. 
Its only aspects ate by dark Saturn and Rahu. It thereby shows an early 
and violent death. 

The strong Jupiter, lord of the Ascendant, in the Seventh house and 
Gemini, gave him a capacity to influence others — the status of a preacher 
and politician. Jupiter is hemmed in between malefic Sun and Mars, which 
adds to his paranoia. His Fifth house is also good, with benefic Mercury 
and Venus, giving him intelligence and the capacity to advise others. 
Hence, we see a misplaced idealism and self-righteousness, which is 
typical behind destructive action. No doubt his Jupiter, Mercury and 
Venus energy confused many, who then got caught in his Moon-Rahu 
paranoia. 

His death occurred a little more than three years into the Moon major 
period. His paranoia and megalomania must have increased rapidly during 
this time, along with his taking of drugs. The Moon Major, Rahu Minor 
period lasted from Sept. 1976 to March of 1978. At this time he relocated 
to Guyana. Probably he lost all sanity during this period. The Jupiter 
Minor period began at this time combining the influence of the lord of the 
Eighth, the house of death, with the lord of the Ascendant, the house of 
life. 


^M.cLcrl^l^a.L < EJiui4JlA. 



Example Charts 303 

CHART NO. 21 — Philosopher 
FRIEDRICH NIETZSCHE 


m 

■ 

<2 

0 


navamsha 



Harmonic Ninth 

« 




9 

j> 


O 

Asc 

n 






V 



10-15-1844 10:00 A M. L.M.T. 
51°N15' 012°E08', Ayanatnsha 20° 11' 


*R 

Ur 

■ 

« 


Vr 





RASHI 



CHAKRA 


■ 



9 


ft 

o 

9 


I 


c? 


Asc 




INATAL POSITIONS 


PLANETARY PERIODS 

Ascendant 

09 ° 03' Scorpio 


Maha Dasha 


Sun 

01“ 56' Libra 


Mercury 

10-15-1844 

Moon 

18° 52' Scorpio 


Ketu 

12-27-1858 

Man 

07“ 45'Virgo 


Venus 

12-27-1865 

Mercury 

13“ 58'Virgo 


Sun 

12-27-1885 

Jupiter 

05“ 51' Pisces r 


Moon 

12-27-1891 

Venus 

16“ 11'Leo 



Died 1900 

Satum 

10“ 35' Capricorn 




Rahu 

16“ 49' Scorpio 




jKetu 

16“ 49' Taurus 




Uranus 

13“ 18' Pisces R 




Neptune 

00“ 46' Aquarius r 




Pluto 

02“ 43'Aries r 





This is another example of a Moon-Rahu conjunction in a chart that 
led to insanity. Nietzsche was a brilliant intellectual and philosopher, who 
went insane at the age of 44. 

The Moon is in its fall in the Ascendant in Scorpio, along with Rahu. 
The Moon’s fall is mitigated, not only by being in the Ascendant, but by 
being the lord of the benefic Ninth house and aspected by Jupiter from 
the Fifth; but Rahu’s darkening influence still had its negative effect. The 
Moon is the self-indicator (Atmakaraka) and is also with Rahu in the 
harmonic ninth chart 

The weak Sun, in its fall in Libra in the Twelfth house of loss, shows 
his solitary and reclusive nature, and contributed greatly to his mental 






















304 The Astrology of the Seers 

imbalance. The position of the Moon would not have been enough to do 
this. The aspect of Saturn to the Sun weakens it further. The ego is thus 
weak, and Nietzsche compensated for this by his will-to-power oriented 
philosophy. His mental health deteriorated quickly during the Major 
period of the Sun. 

High intellect is indicated by a strong Jupiter in its own sign, in the 
Fifth house of creative intelligence, aspected by Mercury, which is only 
one degree from its exaltation point in Virgo, and conjunct Mars in the 
Eleventh. The aspect of Mars on the Second and lord of the Second, aids 
in intelligence. Mars also aspects the Fifth and the lord of the Fifth further 
sharpening the factors which represent speech and intelligence. As the 
Moon is rising, the same aspects also occur on the Second and Fifth from 
the Moon. His mind thereby was very piercing and fiery, both contentious 
and profound. 

This Moon-Rahu conjunction in Scorpio in the Ascendant made his 
Kundalini sensitive, and he had a number of mystical experiences. Unfor¬ 
tunately, without the guidance of a Yoga teacher or tradition, he didn’t 
know how to handle that energy and it served to disturb his mind and ego 
until he broke. Syphilis, which he contracted, contributed to this condi¬ 
tion. 

CHART NO. 22 — Industrialist 
J. P. MORGAN 


y 

9 

9 

O 

15_ 



V 



d* , 

A sc 

RASHI 

V 


CHAKRA 


V 



J> 



Vr 




V 



V 

9 



9 

Q 

y 

NAVAMSHA 

Harmonic Ninth 

a 

S<b 


V 

Asc 




04-17-1837 03:00 A.M. L.M.T 
41°N46' 072"W40', Ayanamsha 20° 04' 


£7 } HjtLtrLtrajjcjfLL < EJhji4JlA. 



Example Charts 


305 


i k7.w.w ' 















g *>v 








' # 






Venus 

04-17-1837 

1 Sun 

07-28-1839 

Moon 

07-28-1845 

Mars 

07-28-1855 

Rahu 

07-28-1862 

Jupiter 

07-28-1880 

Saturn 

07-28-1896 

Died 1913 




This chart indicates great wealth and fortune. We see four exalted 
planets: Venus is exalted in the Second house of income (also exalted in 
die harmonic ninth), as the Raja Yoga planet for Aquarius. It is close to 
its maximum degree of exaltation and the dispositor of an exalted Saturn, 
which is in the Ninth house of good fortune. The Sun is exalted in the 
Third house, giving a strong will and vitality. 

The most important factor, however, is Jupiter. It is a triple signific- 
ator of wealth for Aquarius — being wealth-giving by nature, and ruling 
two houses of wealth, the Second and the Eleventh. Added to this, it is 
dispositor of wealth-giving exalted Venus in Pisces. Associated with such 
an exalted Jupiter the debility of Mars is cancelled and Mars gives good 
results as lord of the Third and Tenth. The combination of Mars and Jupiter 
in the Sixth thus gives him great work ability to gab wealth, the power 
to influence society, and the capacity to overcome his enemies. 

We can compare this chart with Ramakrishna, who also has an 
Aquarius Ascendant, exalted Venus and Saturn. It is the aspect of Mare 
upon the Ascendant, and its lord Saturn, that makes Morgan’s character 
worldly and domineering. He benefits only from the lower grace of his 
chart. Hence, we see that a strong chart is not necessarily good spiritually 
but may only indicate worldly power. Ramakrishna’s Jupiter b the Fifth 
in Gemini is better for wisdom. Morgan’s exalted Jupiter can only give 
wealth, as its higher power is cancelled by bfluences from Tamasic Mare 
and Saturn. 

From this we see that charts for a successful person b the outer world 
or for a great soul may appear superficially alike. The factors determining 
spiritual nature are subtle, though the differences they create in human 
types are quite dramatic. 


£7 1 MjcUj4xtqmcj€lL < EJhjjjLIlA. 




















306 The Astrology of the Seers 

CHART NO. 23 — Politician , > " 
NELSON ROCKERFELLER 


m 



9 


RASH I 
CHAKRA 




t3 


2> 

Asc 



9 

w 

G 


m 



V 


NAVAMSHA 



Harmonic Ninth 





<? 

U 

♦ 


Asc 


07-08-1908 00:10 P.M. RS.T 
44°N23' 068°W13', Ayanamsha 21° 08' 


Inatal positions 

Ascendant 

28" 21'Virgo 

Sun 

24" ST Gemini 

Moon 

16° 48' Libra 

Mars 

09° 13' Cancer 

Mercury 

19° 07' Gemini r 

Jupiter 

24° 46'Cancer 

Venus 

20° 54' Gemini r 

Saturn 

18° S3'Pisces 

Rahu 

13° 18' Gemini 

Ketu 

13° 18' Sagittarius 

Uranus 

23° 45'Sag. r 

Neptune 

23° 31' Gemini 

Pluto 

03° 42' Gemini 


(PLANETARY PERIODS 

IlMaha Dasha Bezin 

Rahu 

07-08-1908 

Jupiter 

11-02-1912 

Saturn 

11-02-1928 

Mercury 

11412-1947 

Ketu 

11-02-1964 

Venus 

11-02-1971 




This chart also has many indications of great wealth. Rockerfeller 
inherited half a billion dollars. Jupiter is exalted in the Eleventh house of 
gain. Mars has its debility cancelled by its association with Jupiter and 
also gives excellent results in terms of income. Mercury and Venus 
together in the Tenth house give Raja Yoga, combining their influences as 
lords of the Ninth and Tenth, to which the Sun as a neutral (lord of the 
TWelfth) adds its power. The planetary Yoga (Mahapurusha Yoga) for 
Mercury is strongly in evidence (Mercury in its own sign and in an angle 
in Gemini), giving also fame in the Tenth house. Rahu, in the Tenth, 
magnifies these influences, as well as making them more worldly. 

The Moon, as lord of the Eleventh house of gain, is waxing in the 
Second house of income. Venus, as the ruler of the Second and Ninth 


^7#ic/<rZcm.Zc.a/ < EJiiai£IlA. 






























Example Charts 307 

s 

houses of wealth, is in the public Tenth house, giving it prominence. 
Saturn, as the ruler of the Fifth house of speculation, income is strong and 
angular in the Seventh. v 

From the Moon, the Mars-Jupiter conjunction occurs in the Tenth 
house, and the Mercury ruled configuration in the Ninth, giving more 
power of wealth and fame. It would be harder to imagine a better chart 
for wealth if we made one up ourselves. 

Politically, it is an excellent chart as well, but the mutability of the 
nature shown in it did not give Rockerfeller enough drive or concentration 
to become president. His Saturn in the Seventh caused the divorce and 
remarriage that spoiled his bid for the presidency. With such an easy chart, 
he lacked the necessary ambition, even though all other factors were open 
for him to get it. 


CHART NO. 24 — President 
FRANKLIN ROOSEVELT 


1 

■ 

V R 

13 


9 

KASHI 

CHAKRA 

■ 

9 

O 

Hr 

Asc 


n 






w 

9 


■ 

NAVAMSHA 

Harmonic Ninth 

O 


■ 


m 

m ■ 

V 



01-30-1882 08:00 RM. E.S.T 
41°N47' 073°W56', Ayanamsha 20° 45' 


JNATAL POSITIONS 

* 

IpLANETARY PERIODS 1 

Ascendant 

24° 31'Leo 


Maha Dasha 

Beein 

Sun 

20° 22' Capricorn 


Rahu 

01-30-1882 

Moon 

15° 10' Gemini 


Jupiter 

08-12-1888 

Mars 

06° 16' Gemini r 


Saturn 

08-12-1904 

Mercury 

06° 24' Aquarius 


Mercury 

08-12-1923 

Jupiter 

26° 12' Aries 


Ketu 

08-12-1940 

Venus 

15® 17' Capricorn 



Died 1945 

Saturn 

15° 21'Aries 




Rahu 

14° 57'Scorpio 




Ketu 

14° 57' Taurus 




Uranus 

27° 09'Leo r 




Neptune 

23° 01'Aries 




Pluto 

06° 36' Taurus r 

=— - = 





£7 'HjtLtrljtrajjcjfLL ( U~U-uj£J+.A- 
























308 The Astrology of the Seers 

Examining this chart, two things are obvious in the person; great 
wealth and poor health. Mercury, as the lord of the Second and Eleventh 
houses of income, gives great wealth for Leo Ascendants. It is strongly 
located in the Seventh house. Mars, the ruler of the Ninth house of fortune, 
is in the Eleventh house of gains. The Moon, as ruler of the TWelfth house, 
is neutral for Leo and augments the strength of Mars by taking on its 
influence. It is waxing and approaching full. Jupiter, the ruler of the Fifth 
house of speculative gain, is in the Ninth house of fortune. 

Relative to health, the Sun, as lord of the Ascendant, is in the Sixth 
house of disease. It is conjunct Venus, the ruler of the Eleventh house (a 
malefic lord), and aspected by malefic Saturn and Mars. Mars, as the ruler 
of Saturn and Rahu, brings more of their negative influence to bear on the 
Sun. Saturn, as lord of the Sixth, is debilitated in the Ninth (a bad place 
for malefics), and suggests some congenital weakness. On top of this, 
there is the aspect of Ketu on the Sixth house, from its position in the 
Tenth. Ketu is often involved in neuromuscular disorders. Note also that 
Venus as the lord of Ketu conveys its influence on the Sun as well. The 
result is a severe nervous system disorder, a Vata or air disorder^ Roosevelt 
was nearly paralyzed from the waist down. He was a cripple, whose 
condition was kept hidden largely by the favor of the media (a situation 
unlikely to occur today). 

How does such a crippled man become president and get reelected 
four times? Mars is strong for income, but does not appear angular enough 
to give political power. We would expect to find its aspect on the 
Ascendant to create the Raja Yoga necessary for becoming ruler of a great 
country. This chart demonstrates an important principle. Mercury, as the 
dispositor of Mars, is able to project the power of Mars onto the Ascen¬ 
dant. Mercury will act like Mars and carry also the power of the Moon 
(which it also rules). Hence, we see that Roosevelt was first elected to the 
presidency in November of 1932, during the Mercury Major, Mars Minor 
period. The Mercury period of 1923-1940 brought a steady increase in 
his political power. It was followed by the Ketu Major period, which 
allowed him to maintain his power, as it is in the Tenth house, but which 
also brought about declining health and death (by its aspect on the Sixth). 

Death occurred during the Jupiter Minor period of the-Ketu Major, as 
Jupiter is the ruler of the Eighth house of longevity. 

Mercury also represents the mass media, the press and the radio, 
without whom Roosevelt would never have come to power. It was in 
Mercurial age and a Mercurial culture that Mercury could transmit the 
influence of Mars. It would not have been possible in other times. In this 
regard we see how taking into consideration the nature of the time and 
culture can help us understand charts better. Note also Mercury is only 

^MjdxrlAJTLLCJCLL F^LIUL^lA. 



Example Charts 


309 


angular in the Sign Chatt (Rashi Chakra), not in the House Chart (Bhava 
Chakra), where it is in the Sixth, and an additional indicator of weak 
health. 

In the harmonic ninth (Navamsha), Jupiter, the self-indicator 
(Atmakaraka), is strongly disposed with Mars in Scorpio, along with 
Mercury and Rahu. This gave a strong inner will that enabled Roosevelt 
to overcome his physical adversity. 


CHART NO. 25 — Politician 
INDIRA GANDHI 




y R 

^ R 

U 




Yr 


RASHI 

> 


CHAKRA 

Asc 

V 



d 1 

D 




n 

9 



9 

O 




M 


■ 


■ 



a 


NAVAMSHA 



Harmonic Ninth 

o 






i/ 

9 

V 


5 


d 1 


11-19-1917 11:11P.M. I.S.T. 
25°N27' 081°E51', Ayanamsha 21° 17 


IlNATAL POSITIONS 

Ascendant 

28° 48'Cancer 

Sun 

05° 34' Scorpio 

Moon 

07° 01' Capricorn 

Mars 

17° 49'Leo 

Mercury 

14° 40' Scorpio 

Jupiter 

16° 26' Taurus r 

Venus 

22° 26' Sagittarius 

Saturn 

23° 13' Cancer 

Rahu 


Keiu 



28° 42' Capricorn ! 

Neptune 

15° 49'Cancer r I 


13° 54'Gemini r 1 


1 PLANETARY PERIODS 

IlMaha Dasha Begin 

II Sun 

11-19-1917 

Moon 

03-24-1919 

Mars 

03-23-1929 

Rahu 

03-23-1936 

Jupiter 

03-24-1954 

Sat 

03-24-1970 


Died 1984 

■ 


Here we see the political side of the Cancer Ascendant — that of a 
leader of one of the largest countries in the world. The exchange of signs, 
mutual reception, between the Moon and Saturn brings out the broader 
social and political side of Cancer; Saturn having a detaching influence 
upon the Moon. The strongest factor for this chart politically is the 


































310 


The Astrology of the Seers 


exchange of signs between Mars (lord of the Fifth and Tenth, and Raja 
Yoga planet for Cancer), and the Sun (lord of the Second). This gives a 
very sharp mind, strong Speech, good powers of advising and directing 
people, and the ability to communicate with powerful individuals. This 
combination of Sun and Mats influences makes the mind fiery. Mercury 
with the Sun augments the combination by its general mutable nature and 
its neutrality as lord of the TVelfth. 

The exchange between the lords of the First and Seventh (the Moon 
and Saturn) also gives the ability to relate to the public and adapt to social 
circumstances. Such factors make for a great diplomat, and a highly 
intelligent leader concerned with the cultural and spiritual, not just eco¬ 
nomic and political welfare of her country. Jupiter’s influence on the Sun 
and Moon aids in providing a compassionate nature and an interest in 
spiritual subjects. Indira Gandhi frequented many great gurus like Sri 
Anandamayi Ma, J. Krishnamurti, and the Mother at the Sri Aurobindo 
Ashram. 

The influence of Mars on the Eighth house of death (both from the 
Ascendant and the Moon) was an important factor in her assassination. 
Jupiter’s period raised her to power. Saturn’s period caused her to lose 
power but regain it, and to be assassinated during the Rahu Minor period 
(the influences of dark Saturn and Rahu contributing to the malefic aspect 
of Mars). 


CHART NO. 26 — Feminist Leader 
GLORIA STEINEM 


<? 

G 




9 





RASHI 

0 


CHAKRA 

D 

ft 



»R 

9 






Asc 

■ 


9 

Asc 

¥ 


0 



m 


•- NAVAMSHA 


w 

Harmonic Ninth 

m 


■ 

tm 

V 




9 



M 

V 


03-25-1934 10:00 PM. E.S.T 
41°N39' 083°W33', Ayanamsha 21° 32' 


Hf/cr/tra Ic.aZ 















Example Charts 3]] ‘ 


Ill 'Ml ft - •IN M y h 1 | ill 

II Ascendant 

20“ 54' Libra 

Sun 

13° 15' Pisces 

Moon 

16° 23''Cancer 

Mara 

17° 34'Pisces 

Mercury 

16° 52' Aquarius 

Jupiter 

28° 30' Virgo r 

| Venus 

29° 04' Capricorn 

I Saturn 

02° 30' Aquarius 

|Rahu .. 

25° 36' Capricorn 

Ketu 

25° 36' Cancer j 

Uranus 

04° 36'Aries 

Neptune 

18° 53'Leo R 

Pluto 

01° 04'Cancer r fl 


|PLANETARY PERIODS 

IlMaha Dasha Beein 

Saturn 

03-25-1934 

| Mercury 

08-15-1934 

Ketu 

08-15-1951 

Venus 

08-15-1958 

Sun 

08-15-1978 

Moon 

08-15-1984 

Mars 

08-15-1994 

|Rahu 

08-15-2001 


Not surprisingly, Gloria Steinem, like so many other reformers, 
revolutionaries, and political figures, has the idealistic and socially 
minded Libra Ascendant, along with strong Cardinal planets in angles. 
Thereby we see that the astrological factors which elevate women to 
power and prominence are not different from those for men, though the 
openness of the society to them may be a limiting factor. As a crusader 
for women s rights, Steinem has a strong waxing Moon located in its own 
sign Cancer, and in the Tenth house of career and social influence. Ketu 
serves to magnify its influence and brings out a crusading nature (Ketu as 
die flag and its energizing effect). This shows her concern for women’s 
issues on a public level. 

Saturn, the planet of power for Libra, is strong in its own sign 
Aquarius, in the Fifth house, along with Mercury, the lord of the Ninth. 
This gives power of advise as well as writing abilities, though it tends to 
deny children. Jupiter in the Twelfth house in Virgo shows service and 
reform work on a practical level and a compassionate nature. It is also in 
Virgo in the harmonic ninth (vargottama) strengthening this influence. 

The Sixth house indicates our enemies. Here we find her masculine 
planets, the Sun and Mars, in Pisces, representing the corrupt male 
influences from the Piscean age that she struggles against. The planets in 
the Sixth also show her sense of service, and her work to reduce the weak 
position that women have been placed in. 

The self-indicator (Atmakaraka) is Venus, the planet of the feminine 
nature, which is also the ruler of the Ascendant. In the harmonic ninth, it 
is located in Virgo, the sign of its debility, along with Jupiter, showing 
efforts to improve the conditions of women, particularly in practical and 
economic issues (Virgo). 

Her present major period of the Moon will keep her before the public 
and maintain her strong social presence. 













312 The Astrology of the Seers 


CHART N0.27 — FBI Director 
J. EDGAR HOOVER 


Cl 

m 

B 

■ 

U 

RASH! 

CHAKRA 



■ 

m 


■ 

u 


■ 



V 

<? 




'll 

IjBKra 



Asc 


NAVAMSHA 



Harmonic Ninth 


Hi 



■ 

u 




9 





01-01-1895 07:Q0 a.M. E.S.X 
38°N54' 077°W02', Ayanamsha 20° 56' 







JKjl. * 




>■, 






I 






■ 


V A 


Hfeil 



PLANETARY PERIODS 

Maha Dasha Begin 

Rahil 

01-01-1895 

Jupiter 

10-11-1896 

Saturn 

10-11-1912 

Mercury 

10-11-1931 

Ketu 

10-11-1948 

Venus 

10-11-1955 

Died 1972 


_J 


This is a typical chart of a lawyer and policeman — the legalistic side 
of the Sagittarius Ascendant. The Sun, Mercury, and Venus are rising in 
Sagittarius. Jupiter, the lord of the Ascendant, is strongly placed in the 
Seventh house, and in mutual reception to Mercury,, lord of the Seventh. 
The exchange of the planets representing self and other, shows a strong 
consciousness of the other. In this chart, it is the obsession to figure out 
the mind and actions of the enemy on an ideological level, the commu¬ 
nists. 

Venus in the Ascendant weakens it brings some vanity into his sense 
of.justice. As the lord of the Sixth and the Eleventh, the two houses of 
enemies, it also shows Hoover’s ongoing preoccupation with his oppo- 


ttxlxrlxFTL I-G-ClL 





















Example Charts 313 

nents. A similar position occurs in the harmonic ninth with Venus, as the 
self-indicator (Atmakaraka), conjunct Jupiter in Sagittarius, and opposed 
to by violent Mars. Venus in Sagittarius, like Mars for the Gemini 
Ascendant, can create an impulsive and contentious nature, though it does 
not give as much injury. 

Mars, in its own sign in the Fifth in Aries, gives a good capacity for 
legal advice and argument. It also indicates a karmic trend towards power 
and force. Saturn is exalted in the Eleventh in Libra, giving a strong sense 
of justice and great gains in life. The positions from the Moon are also 
strong with Jupiter and Saturn in THnes, the Fifth and Ninth. 

Hoover shows the conventional side of the Sagittarius Ascendant; its 
critical and self-righteous sense. The chart is quite strong and formidable. 
Hoover was able to endure through several presidents as the king of his 
own law enforcement kingdom. The chart shows a person who, though 
not a tyrant, is too caught up in his own sense of right and wrong, and 
may harm others through being too focused on his own values. Just as 
Libra Ascendants can become harmful through an excessive idealism, 
Sagittarius can become harmful through self-righteousness (as also with 
Jim Jones). 


CHART NO. 28 — Rock Musician 
MICKJAGGER 



cf 

V 

Asc 

■ 


RASHI 

CHAKRA 

■ 

w 

9 




V 


V 


V 


a 



Asc 


NAVAMSHA 


m 

Harmonic Ninth 

u 



LJi-W; 


a 

0 

tmptj 

(i L 1 ■ 


u 

eBTms 







07-26-1943 02:30 A.M. D.G.M.W.T 
51°N27' 000°E12', Ayanamsha 21° 40' 


^7#ic/<rZcra.Zc.a/ < EJfujjtJ±A r 
















314 . The Astrology of the Seers 


Inatal positions 


PLANETARY PERIODS 11 

Ascendant 

21'24"&ums 


Maha Dasha 

Benin 

Sun 

10* 30'Cancer 


Sun 

07436-1943 

Moon 

02° 18'Hurras 


Moon 

01-12-1947 


20° 33'Aries 


Man 

01-12-1957 

[Mercury * 

19° 15'Cancer 


Rahu 

01-12-1964 


- 13° 49- Cancer 


Jupiter 

01-12-1982 


21*54* Leo 


Saturn 

01-12-1998 

Saturn 

00* 18' Gemini 


Mercury 

01-12-2017 

Rahu 

24° 56' Cancer 




Ketu 

• 24° 56'Capricorn 




Uranus 

16° 10- Taurus 




Neptune 

08° 12' Virgo 




Pluto 

15*05' Cancer 





Rock musicians were not a phenomena known to ancient Vedic 
astrologers, but we can still see, by using the system, the kinds of energy 
exhibited by them. This is particularly noticeable in Mick Jagger’s chart. 
Jagger is a double Thurus, an artistic and earthy sign, with the Moon rising 
in Thurus — fitting for his earthy character and music. The Moon is within 
one degree of its maximum point of exaltation, thus giving him a strong 
personality, and the capacity to influence people and affect the public. 
The Moon is also waning and so does not give a nurturing energy but one 
that is disturbing or destructive. This strong Moon is the driving force 
behind his success. It gives popularity but on a level that can become 
crude, which reaches into the dark subconscious side of lunar energy. 
Jagger represents thereby, a force of raw sensation and animal vitality. 

Jagger has a very powerful Third house, which as noted, relates in the 
Vedic system to vitality, curiosity, play and prowess. With the Sun, exalted 
Jupiter, Mercury, and influential Rahu in the Third, we see a dynamic but 
impulsive character and personality, much involved in its own self-drama. 
Jupiter is the strongest and most significant of these planets, and often 
relates to music in the Vedic system. The influence of Rahu brings out its 
less refined side, adding to impulsiveness the showmanship ability. Rahu, 
indicating Maya or the power of illusion and glamor, orients the Jupitarian 
force in its direction. Jupiter, exalted, as the lord of the Eleventh house of 
income, gives good financial gains. 

The Moon, as the lord of the Third, located in the Ascendant, further 
increases the Third house’s potential of willfulness and rebellion. Through 
this chart we can understand better why Vedic astrologers made the Third 
a house of impluse rather than intellect, as it is in the Western system. 
Mars, the lord of the Seventh house of relationship, is strong in the TWelfth 
house of secret enjoyments, giving a strong sexual nature. Saturn, the Raja 
Yoga planet for Thurus Ascendant, is well-placed in the Second, a house 


£7 ^HxtxrlxralcjaJ. 






Example Charts . 315 

of income and self-expression. It also gives discipline and the capacity to 
work — necessary traits to do any sustained public activity. . 

Venus is the self-indicator (Atmakaraka), and is ip the Fourth house, 
showing the emotional nature, being located in Leo, a dramatic sign. In 
the harmonic ninth, it is aligned with a debilitated Sun, and with malefics 
Mars and Saturn, in its own sign Libra. This also shows an artistic type 
but not one that is refined. The chart as a whole, dominated by Third house 
factors, shows an anarchic motivation but one whose concemis more play 
than wreaking any actual havoc. This chart thus personifies the rebellious¬ 
ness of youth and its seeking those things forbidden to it. 

Jagger’s planetary periods also reveal much of interest. His Rahu 
Major period brought him quickly into the public eye, as is often the case 
with a strong Rahu. This was followed by the period of exalted Jupiter 
that has kept him in prominence (though nothing can match Rahu in 
bringing fame). Thus his planetary periods show vitality and do not 
indicate the quick burnout we see with many Rock musicians. Jupiter is 
exalted as the lord of the Eighth house of longevity, further strengthening 
him in this regard. 

CHART NO. 29 — Anorexia Case 


♦ 

Asc 



o 

U 




9 





NAVAMSHA 


nc 

Harmonic Ninth 

V 




a 





9 

u 




10-02-1950 05:09 A.M. E.S.T 


a 


> 

V 

y R 

RASHI 

CHAKRA 

■ 




9 


d* 


jga 

US 


40“N45' 073°W57', Ayanamsha 21° 46' 


< EJfujjtJ±A r 














316 ' The Astrology of the Seers 


[NATAL POSITIONS 

■HR 

PLANETARY PERIODS 

Ascendant 

07° 19' Virgo 


Maha Dasha 

mm 

Sun 

16° 52'Virgo 


Mars 

10-02-1950 

Moon 

25° 52' Taurus 


Rahu 

06-03-1956 

Man 

12° 50'Scorpio 

B 

Jupiter 

06-03-1974 

Mercury 

29° 01'Leo 


Saturn 

06-03-1990 

Jupiter 

06° 36' Aquarius r 




Venus 

05° 57'Virgo 




Saturn 

02° 56'Virgo 




Rahu 

05° 48' Pisces 

■ * j i 



Ketu 

05° 48'Virgo 

v,* 



Uranus 

17°41' Gemini 

1 4) 



Neptune 

25° 03'Virgo 




Pluto 

27° 34' Cancer 





This is a good example of medical astrology, a case that comes from 
the American Book of Charts. Virgo, the sign of disease, of sensitive 
nervous system and weak digestion, is in the Ascendant, along with five 
planets (including Neptune). Saturn, the ruler of the Sixth house of 
disease, is present in Virgo with a debilitated Venus, along with malefic 
Ketu and the Sun. Venus does not get cancellation of debility though 
Angular, because of the weakening aspect of Saturn. Mercury, the ruler 
of the Ascendant, is weak in the TWelfth house of sorrow, and is also only 
three degrees from Saturn. Jupiter is in the Sixth house of disease, and 
aspected by a malefic Mars and by Mercury (who carries the influence of 
all the malefic planets it rules in Virgo). No wonder the poor women had 
no appetite. 

This shows a Vata or Air disorder in Ayurvedic medicine. Virgo is 
the sign of Vata. Saturn, a Vata planet, is causing the disease pattern, a 
wasting disease. I have noticed a much higher incidence of disease among 
Virgo than other Ascendants, particularly strange nervous system disor¬ 
ders including M.S. and other wasting diseases like diabetes. 

The exalted Moon in the Ninth may only serve to give her an overly 
sensitive mind. Mars in its own sign in the Third house provides only an 
impulsiveness in dealing with her condition, a will not to eat. 

Note also the afflictions of the Seventh house and its lord via the 
aspects of the malefics in the first. Relationship difficulties and worries 
must have been a major part of her condition. Her Rahu period dominated 
her youth, with its influence of confusion and hypersensitivity coming 
through the Seventh house. At the beginning of her Jupiter period in 
November 1974, she was also assaulted and raped. Note how Jupiter is 
afflicted as a double lord of relationship (by both nature and temporal 
status). 


57 *MxlxrlxrnlcjaJ. 




















Example Charts 


317 


CHART NO. 30 — Wife Murderer 
HOMICIDE 


o 

9 

D 

n 

9 

V 


RASHl 

CHAKRA 

u 

Asc 


V 


U 

'll 


<? 

9 

0 


o 

Asc 


y 

9 | 





NAVAMSHA 


■ 

Harmonic Ninth 



n 


9 


> 




04-08-1948 03:10 A M. P.D.T. 
34°N04' 118°W15', Ayanamsha 21° 44' 


w *i rai * * 

Ascendant 

13° 15' Capricorn 

Sun 

26° 45'Pisces 

Moon 

13°45'Pisces 

Mars 

26° 56'Cancer 

Mercury 

07“08' Pisces 

Jupiter 

07° 08' Sagittarius 

Venus 

12° 17' Taurus 

Saturn 

24° 05' Cancer r 

Rahu 

23° 52'Aries 

Ketu 

23° 52'Libra 

Uranus 

01° 05' Gemini 

Neptune 

19° 45'Virgo r 

Pluto 

20° 56' Cancer r 


1 PLANETARY PERIODS 

Maha Dasha 

Begin 

ISatunr 

04-08-1948 

Mercury 

06-01-1952 

Ketu 

06-01-1969 

Venus 

06-01-1976 


This chart, also taken from the American Book of Charts, shows a 
Tamasic or darkened nature, a drug dealer who killed his wife. Mars and 
Saturn in the Seventh house can cause violence and perversion. Here Mars 
is debilitated in the Seventh, and the debility is not cancelled but rein¬ 
forced by its association with Saturn and manipulative Pluto. Mars is also 
lord of Rahu and carries its influence into the Seventh. 

One of the rules for Capricorn Ascendant is that the combination of 
Mars and Saturn (rulers the First and Fourth houses relating to the mind) 
can create a violent mind. The factor they cast their influence on shows 
where that violence will be directed; in this case, the wife or marriage 
partner' indicated by the Seventh house. 


< EJfujjtJ±A r 


































318 The Astrology of the Seers 

The Moon, as the lord of the Seventh or wife, is also in difficulty. It 
is waning and approaching new, conjunct a debilitated Mercuiy, in Pisces, 
a sign of addiction. Poor Mercuiy suffers from this malefic Moon, and 
from the Saturn and Mars influence the Moon brings through its dis- 
positorship. Hence, the mind is warped by violence. These planets in 
mutable Pisces also show the susceptibility to drugs, an impressionable 
and overly emotional, excitable nature. In the Third, a violent or impulsive 
house, they reinforce his aggressive nature. 

The Seventh house from the Moon is also afflicted by Saturn, as is 
the Fifth from the Moon (containing the same planets as the Seventh from 
the Ascendant). The Moon in the harmonic ninth (Navamsha) is in debility 
in Scorpio along with Rahu, further showing a darkened mind. Venus, in 
the Fifth from the Ascendant, and in its own sign, gives the degree of 
attachment necessary for maintaining the marriage relationship. 

The murder of the wife occurred on March 10,1976, at the end of the 
Ketu Major period (Mercury Minor), showing the violence of Ketu. 
Perhaps if he made it into his Venus period, the violence could have been 
avoided. Note that Ketu, which often shows death, is in conjunction with 
the Ascendant .of the wife, showing a karmic connection behind the 
violence. 


CHART NO. 31 — Murdered Wife 
HOMICIDE VICTIM 



a 

<* 


V 


RASHI 

CHAKRA 

■ 

m 

■ 


■ 

0 

Asc 

n 


9 

a 

V 

Asc 


m 


NAVAMSHA 

Harmonic Ninth 

V 

a 

■ 


V 


V 

m 


05-13-1949 06:00 P.M. P.S.X 
34°N04' 118°W15', Ayanamsha 21° 45’ 


£7 'HxtxrlxralcjaJ. 













Example Charts 


319 


1 PLANETARY PERIODS 

Maha Dasha 


Mercury 

05-13-1949 

Ketu 

07-22-1959 

Venus 

07-22-1966 

Died 1976 




INATAL POSITIONS 

Ascendant 

22° 39' Libra 

Sun 

01° 12' "Burns 

Moon 

22° 00' Scotpio 

Mars 

18° 40' Aries 

Mercury 

22° 13' "Bunts 

Jupiter 


Venus 


Saturn 

07° 42'Leo 

Rahu 

02° 38'Aries 

Ketu 

02° 38' Libra 

Uranus 

06° 47' Gemini 

Neptune 

21° 07'Virgo r 

Pluto 

22° 31'Cancer 


This is the chart of wife of the above case. Mars, the planet of domestic 
violence, is in the Seventh house of marriage, along with the dark planet 
Rahu. Mars being in its own sign of Aries makes it strong, but not less 
malefically disposed. Mars is her strongest planet, and she was probably 
also Pitta (fiery) in constitution. She struck out at her husband at times, 
and the relationship had a history of violence. Jupiter, the general indicator 
of the husband, is in its debility in Capricorn, in the Fourth house of the 
home. Hence, all factors for relationship in her chart are severely afflicted 
(the Seventh, its lord, and Jupiter). 

The chart has other difficulties. The Moon is in debility in Scorpio in 
the Second house (speech), and also as pec ted by Mars, showing troubled 
and violent emotions, and their expression. Venus, the Sun, and Mercury, 
are in the Eighth house of death, aspected only by malefic Saturn and 
debilitated Moon and Jupiter. Such positions not only give propensity to 
violence, but also addiction to drugs and alcohol. 

In the harmonic ninth (Navamsha), Venus, the self-indicator 
(Atmakaraka), is exalted, but under malefic aspects of both Mars and 
Saturn. 

The death, March 1976, occurred near the end of the Venus Major, 
Rahu Minor period, which started Sept. 20,1973. This followed the Mars 
Minor period from July 20, 1972, showing an ongoing situation of 
domestic conflict and violence. Venus is the double indicator of longevity 
ruling the First and Eighth houses, and Rahu brings delusion and destruc¬ 
tion upon it. 

Comparing the two charts, his Rahu is in conjunction with her Mars, 
thus connecting the darkness and violence of the two planets. His Ascen¬ 
dant conjuncts her debilitated Jupiter, the indicator of the husband, 
showing him as her bad choice in partnership. His Mars, Saturn, and Pluto 
conjunction in Cancer occurs in her Tenth house and aspects her Ascen- 


£7 'HxlxrlxrajjtixLL < EJhjj4JlA. 















320 The Astrology of the Seers 

riant, directing their violence upon it. Their two Venuses are conjunct in 
Thurus, indicating their long term relationship and attachment. Both have 
very deranged Moons in watery, emotional signs. However we look at, it 
is a blueprint for disaster. 

CHART NO. 32 — Mervyn Peake 
WRITER/ARTIST 



a 



9 


& 



O 


b 



V 








KASHI 

CHAKRA 









Birth Chart 



D 

u a 

0 

Asc 


■ 

■ 

d* 

Q 

* 

u 



9 

u 



0 


NAVAMSHA 



Harmonic Ninth 

a 

9 



Asc 


07-09-1911 00:30 a.m. L.T 
30°N0O' 117°E00', Ayanamsha 21° 45' 


iNATAL POSITIONS 

Ascendant 

29° 14- Virgo [ 

Sun 

24° 40'Gemini 

Moon 

29° 01'Scorpio 

Mars 


Mercury 


Jupiter 

13° 33' Libra 

Venus 

10° 09'Leo 

Saturn 

26° 27’Aries 

jRahu 

02° 38' Aries 

jKetu 

02° 38'Libra 

Uranus 

06°41' Cap. r 

Neptune 

29° 54' Gemini 

Pluto 

06° 43' Gemini 



This is another interesting chart wherein we can compare Topical and 
Sidereal positions. Mervyn Peake was a writer, a novelist, most noted for 
his fantasy the Gormenghast Trilogy. Tropically, he would be Libra rising 
with a Cancer Sun. Sidereally, he is Virgo rising with a Gemini Sun. Such 
strong positions in signs of Mercury, which is also located on the Mid¬ 
heaven, give a powerful disposition for writing. 


^M.cLcrl^l^a.L < EJiw4JlA. 























Example Charts 321 

Peake also had a strange nervous disorder, never understood by 
medics (Ayurvedically, a Vata condition). He experienced severe tremors 
and restlessness. This is also evident Sidereally. His Ascendant is near the 
end of the sensitive sign Virgo, known for physical and mental diseases. 
The Moon is in its debility in Scorpio, and without any benefic aspects. 
He has three malefics — Mars, Saturn and Rahu in the Eighth House of 
death — with Saturn debilitated there, as the lord of the Sixth house of 
health. His disease manifested in spring of 1955, just before his Mars 
Major period began. In January 1961, he underwent brain surgery to 
correct his condition. It was a Mars Major and Ketu Minor period. Both 
of these planets are well known in Vedic astrology for causing injury or 
surgery. Mars is in Anes, the sign of the head, where it also squares 
Mercury, the lord of the Ascendant. The operation was unsuccessful. It 
alleviated some of his symptoms but dulled his mind. 

Rahu’s major period followed in 1962, which as a malefic in a bad 
house, and hemmed in between malefics, could not give good results. 
Rahu also makes diseases difficult to diagnosis or treat, and shows a 
psychic imbalance behind the condition. His death occurred in the Saturn 
Minor period of Rahu’s cycle, when the influence of both prime malefics 
combined. Rahu’s period often causes mental or nervous disorders to 
manifest or to worsen. Hence, we see how his planetary periods made his 
condition very difficult to correct. 

The inspiration for his trilogy came at the beginning of the Sun major 
period in 1940, and it preoccupied him through most of this planetary 
period. The Sun, in Gemini and the Tenth house, brought out his creative 
powers and fulfilled his karma as a writer. In 1945, his Moon Major period 
began, which, in Scorpio and only aspected by Mars, was not favorable 
for creative work. 

Peake was also not good with finances. Venus, the lord of the Second 
house of income, is in the Twelfth House of loss. While Jupiter in the 
Second house is usually good for income, here it takes on the malefic 
aspects of Mars, Saturn and Rahu from the Eighth. Note that Rahu aspects 
the Second house from both the Ascendant and the Moon, and their rulers, 
Venus and Mercury. This brings the often bizarre Rahu fantasy element 
to the mind and speech but also casts the confusion of Rahu onto financial 
matters. His shadowy and labyrinthine trilogy can be looked at as a Rahu 
novel, an open door to the collective unconscious that also brought about 
his illness. He needed to learn some Yogic methods to control this astral 
vulnerability he had; he then could have lived longer. 





Ketu 



“Dressed in grey, of the color of smoke, 
who has two arms, whose head is cut off, 
who has a serpent’s head, whose vehicle is 
a serpent, who carries a mace in his hand, 
with a cat's eye crest jewel on his head, 
making the gesture that gives boons, may 
Divine Ketu ever grant us his grace. ” 

^MxixrLxFTLiGjaJ. 



PARTY 


APPENDICES 


£ 7 ^HxlxrlxralcjaJ. < EJhjjjLIlA. 




1 

SANSKRIT 


GLOSSARY 


Abhljit 

asterism, the star Vega 

Apachaya 

houses 1,2,4,7, 8 

Apoklimas 

Cadent houses 

Art ha 

wealth or material goals 

Asuras 

demons 

Atma 

Divine Self or Soul 

Atmakaraka 

significator of the self or Atma 

Ayanamsha 

difference between Sidereal and TVopical zodiacs 

Ayurveda 

Vedic medicine, medicinal approach used with 
Vedic astrology 

Bhava 

house 

Bhava chakra 

House Chart 

Bhava madhya 

midpoint of house 

Bhukti 

Minor planetary period 

Bija mantra 

seed syllables 

Brahma 

cosmic creative force 

Brahmins 

spiritual class 

Brihaspati 

Jupiter 

Buddhi 

intelligence, reason 

Budha 

Mercury 

Chakra 

horoscope wheel or chart; spinal center 

Chandra 

the Moon 

Chara Rash is 

Cardinal signs 

Dasha 

Major planetary period 

Devas 

Gods 

Dhanus 

Sagittarius 

Dharma 

career, honor or status 

Drekkana 

Decanate, 1/3 of a sign 

Drishti 

planetary aspect 

Durga 

the Goddess as the demon-slayer; related to Rahu 

Dushtanas 

difficult houses, 6, 8 & 12 


^M.cLcrl^l^a.L < EJiw4JlA. 




Sanskrit Glossary 


325 


Dvisvabhava Rash Is 

Duel natured or Mutable signs 

Gaxiesh 

the elephant faced God, related to Jupiter 

Gratia 

planet 

Guru 

Jupiter, spiritual guide 

Homa 

Vedic and Hindu fire rituals 

Hora 

Planetary hours, 1/2 division of sign 

Jaiminl 

author of another system of Hindu astrology 

Jyotish 

Vedic or Hindu astrology, science of light 

Kama 

desire 

Kali 

dark form of the Goddess; related to Saturn 

Kali Yuga 

dark or iron age 

Kanya 

Virgo 

Kapha 

biological water humor 

Karaka 

significator 

Karma 

law of cause and effect 

Kataka 

Cancer 

Kendra 

Angular house 

Ketu 

South Node of the Moon or dragon’s tail 

Krishna 

great Hindu avatar 

Kuja 

Sanskrit for Mars 

Kuja Dosha 

difficult placements of Mars for marriage 

Kumbha 

Aquarius 

Lakshml 

Goddess of fortune and beauty; related to Venus 

Lagna 

Ascendant 

Maha Dasha 

Major planetary period 

Mahapurusha Yogas 

planetary combinations that give strong 
personalities 

Manas 

mind or general feeling potential 

Mangala 

another name for Mars 

Mantras 

sacred or empowered sounds 

Mesha 

Aries 

Mina 

Pisces 

Mlthuna 

Gemini 

Moksha 

liberation 

Mulatrlkona 

root Trine, specially favorable sign positions for 
planets, nearly as good as exaltation 

Nakshatras 

27 lunar constellations or asterisms 

Navamsha 

harmonic ninth chart 

Panaparas 

Succedent houses 


^M.cLcrl^l^a.L ^HajlLIlA- 



326 


The Astrology of the Seers 


Paras hara 

father of Vedic astrology, author of main system 
used 

Pitta 

biological fire humor 

Prana 

life-force or breath 

Pu)a 

Hindu rituals 

Rama 

great Hindu avatar 

Rahu 

North Node of Moon or dragon’s head 

Raja Yoga 

combination of planetary influence or planet which 
gives great power 

Rajaslc 

agitated in quality 

Rama 

seventh avatar of Vishnu, Divine warrior; related to 
the Sun 

Rashi chakra 

basic Sign Chart 

Ravi 

the Sun 

Rishis 

ancient Vedic seers 

Rudra 

fierce form of Shiva; related to Ketu 

Sambhanda 

full relationship between planets 

Sattvic 

spiritual, in effect 

Satya Yuga 

age of truth or golden age 

Shadbala 

system of determining planetary strengths and 
weakness 

Shadvargas 

six main harmonic charts 

Shanalshcharya 

Saturn 

Shanl 

Saturn 

Shiva 

God of the Hindu trinity who destroys the creation 
and takes us back to the transcendent 

Shukra 

Venus 

Sim ha 

Leo 

Skanda 

the war God; related to Mars 

Soma 

the Moon 

Sthira Rashis 

Fixed signs 

Surya 

the Sun 

Tamaslc 

dark in quality 

Thula 

Libra 

Treta Yuga 

third or silver age 

lYikona 

Trine house 

11pacha ya 

houses 3,6, 10 & 11 

Vata 

biological air humor 

Varga 

divisional or harmonic charts 


*/M.c/cT^cm *..€l.clL < EJiui4JlA. 



Sanskrit Glossary 


327 


Vargottama 

same sign position for planet in both birth & 
Navamsha charts 

Vedanta 

Vedic philosophy of Self-realization 

Vedas 

Vedic scriptures 

Vlmshottari Dasha 

120 year cycle of planetary periods 

Vishnu 

God of the Vedic trinity who preserves and 
maintains the creation and the cosmic order 

Vrlshchlka 

Scorpio 

Vrlshabha 

Ihurus 

Yantras 

mystic diagrams 

Yoga 

combination of planetary influences; spiritual 
practices 

Yugas 

world-ages 


^HxlxrlxralcjaJ. < EJhjjjLIlA. 



2 

ENGLISH 


Angular 

Ascendant 

Aspects 

Astral plane 

Beneflcs 

Cadent 

Cardinal signs 

Causal plane 

Combust 

Conjunction 

Cusp 

Debility 

Decanate 

Descendant 

Dispositorship 

Ephemeris 

Exaltation 

Fall 

Fixed signs 
Harmonic charts 
Horary astrology 
Houses 

House signiflcators 

Maleflcs 
Midheaven 
Mutable Signs 
Natal chart 


GLOSSARY 


houses 1,4,7 & 10 
First house or rising sign 

relationship between planets according to zodiacal 
angle between their positions 
subtle or dream plane 

planets with facilitating or strengthening effect 

houses 3,6,9 & 12 

Aries, Cancer, Libra, Capricorn 

plane of cosmic law and cosmic intelligence 

close conjunction of planets with the Sun 

location of planets in close proximity to each other 

central point of a house 

most difficult sign placement for a planet 

threefold divisions of signs 

lowest point in chart or nadir, cusp of Fourth house 
rulership of planets over other planets located in its 
signs 

book containing planetary positions by day 

best sign placement for a planet 

same as debility, most difficult sign placement for a 

planet 

Taurus, Leo, Scorpio, Aquarius 
subdivisions of the birth chart 
astrology directed toward specific issues 
twelvefold division of zodiac according to degree 
rising on eastern horizon at moment of chart 
planets generally controlling the affairs of specific 
houses 

planets of difficult or damaging effect 
highest point in the chart, cusp of the Tenth house 
Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius, Pisces 
birth chart 


^7#if/<rZcm.Zc.a/ < EJiiai£IlA. 


329 

The Astrology of the Seers 

Planetary war 

condition caused by conjunction of planets to 
within one degree; the planet with the lower num¬ 
ber of minutes is considered the winner 

Progressions 

chart computed for the annual solar return 

Quadrant 

Angular or Cardinal positions 

Retrograde 

apparent backward movement of planets in zodiac 

Sidereal zodiac 

zodiac of fixed stars 

Succedent 

houses 2,5,8& 11 

Transits 

current planetary positions relative to birth positions 

THne houses 

houses 1,5 & 9 

Tropical zodiac 

zodiac defined by the equinoctial points 


z!vLtLcrLcrn LcxlL ( EJiuutJ±A. 



3 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 


Behan, Bepin. A Study in Astrological Occultism. Gandhinagar, Banga¬ 
lore, India: IBH Prakashana, 1983. 

Behan, Bepin. Solve Your Problems Astrologically. Gandhinagar, Banga¬ 
lore, India: IBH Prakashana, 1988. 

Behari, Bepin and Madhuri Behair. Introduction to Esoteric Astrology. 
New Delhi, India: Sagar Publications, 1986. 

Bhasin, J.N. Astrology in Vedas. New Delhi, India: Ranjan Publications, 
1984. 

Bhasin, J.N. Astrosutras. New Delhi, India: Sagar Publications, 1982. 

Bhasin, J.N. Depositors in Astrology. New Delhi, India: Ranjan Publica¬ 
tions, 1984. 

Bhasin, J.N. Events and Nativities. New Delhi, India: Sagar Publications, 
1974. 

Bhasin, J.N. Hora Shatak. New Delhi, India: Ranjan Publications, 1988. 

Bhasin, J.N. Medical Astrology. New Delhi, India: Sagar Publications, 
1986. 

Bhat, M. Ramakrishna. Fundamentals of Astrology. Delhi, India: Motilal 
Banarsidass, 1979. 

Bhngu. Bhrigu Sutram (G.S. Kapoor trans. and com.). New Delhi, India: 
Ranjan Publications, 1981. 

Braha, James T. Ancient Hindu Astrology for the Modern Western Astrol¬ 
oger. N. Miami, FI.: Hermetician Press, 1986. 

De Luce, Robert. Constellational Astrology. Los Angeles, CA: De Luce 
Publishing, 1963. 

Frawley, David. Ayurvedic Healing: A Comprehensive Guide. Salt Lake 
City, Utah: Passage Press, 1990. 

Frawley, David. From the River of Heaven: Hindu and Vedic Knowledge 
for the Modern Age. Salt Lake City, Utah: Passage Press, 1990. 

Frawley, D. and Lad, V. The Yoga of Herbs: An Ayurvedic Guide to Herbal 
Medicine. Santa Fe, NM: Lotus Press, 1986. 

Kapoor, G.S. Gems and Astrology. New Delhi, India: Ranjan Publica¬ 
tions, 1985. 

Naimen, Ingrid. The Astrology of Healing. Santa Fe, NM: Seventh Ray 
Press, 1987. 


^M.cLcrl^l^a.L < EJiui4JlA. 



331 The Astrology of the Seers 

Parasara, Maharshi. Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra, Vol. I and II (R. 
Santhanam & G. S. Kapoor trans.). New Delhi, India: Ranjan Publi¬ 
cations, 1984. 

Raman, B.V. A Manual of Hindu Astrology. Bangalore, India: IBH 
Prakashana, 1979 

man, B.V. trans. Bhavartha Ratnakara. Bangalore, India: IBH Prakash¬ 
ana, 1978. 

Raman, B.V. Graha and Bhava Balas. Bangalore, India: IBH Prakashana, 
1979. 

Raman, B.V. Three Hundred Important Combinations. Bangalore, India: 
IBH Prakashana, 1979. 

Saha, N.N. Healing Through Gems. New Delhi, India: Sterling Publish¬ 
ers, 1984. 

Varma, K. Saravali (R.Santhanam trans.). New Delhi, India: Ranjan 
Publications, 1983. 

Yukteswar, Sri Swami. The Holy Science. Los Angeles, CA: Self-Real¬ 
ization Fellowship, 1984. 

Birth Data 

1. Gandhi, Mohandas: Sabian Symbols #306. 

2. Hitler, Adolf: Zenit 11/1933 quotes Birth Record. 

3. Yogananda, Paramahansa: Data by Self Realization Fellowship. 

4. Ramakrishna: “around dawn” The Great Master by Swami 
Sarandananda. 

5. Einstein, Albert: Ebertin quotes Birth Record. 

6. Freud, Sigmund: Photo of his father’s diary. 

7. Byron, Lord George: NN #752 quotes family records in the British 
museum. 

8. Miller, Henry: From My Friend Henry Miller. 

9. Lord Rama: Traditional Indian time. 

10. Ramana Maharshi: B. V. Raman gives 1:00 A.M. L.M.T.; rectified by 
Frawley. 

11. Sri Aurobindo: Auroville, City of the Future. Fisher Books. 

12. Bundy, Theodore: T. Pat Davis quotes Birth Certificate. 

13. Mozart, Wolfgang: Father’s letter quotes in Biog. by J. G. Prodhomme. 

14. Bonaparte, Napoleon: History of Napoleon by Allison gives “from 
family sources.” 

15. Blavatsky, H. P.: Profiles of Women by Lois M. Rodden. 

16. Besant, Annie: Profiles of Women by Lois M. Rodden. 

17. Kubler-Ross, Elisabeth: Ingrid Naiman from Kubler-Ross. 

18. McLaine, Shirley: (Mac) C. L. quotes Birth Certificate. 

19. Madame Curie: Sabian Symbols #237. 


^7#if/<rZcm.Zc.a/ 



Bibliography 


332 


20. Jones, Jim: Beverly Good quotes newspaper sources in Indiana. 

21. Nietzsche, Friedrich: Lockhart quotes biog. 

22. Morgan, J. P.: Biog. J. P. Morgan Sr. by H Satterlee, p. 1. 

23. Rockerfeller, Nelson: A Political Biography. 

24. Roosevelt, Franklin: Circle Book of Charts. 

25. Gandhi, Indira: Jansky in Here and Now, from her private secretary. 

26. Steinem, Gloria: Contemporary Sidereal Horoscopes, Birth Certifi¬ 
cate. 

27. Hoover, J. Edgar: American Book of Charts. 

28. Jagger, Mick: Ananda Bagley of London q. medical records of doctor 
who delivered him, from a mutual friend. 

29. Anorexia: Elizabeth Schattner quotes Birth Certificate. 

30. Wife Murderer: Joan McEvers quotes Birth Certificate. 

31. Homicide Victim: Joan McEvers quotes Birth Certificate. 

32. Peake, Mervyn: The Literary Zodiac by Paul Wright. 

VEDIC ASTROLOGY CORRESPONDENCE COURSE 

This course complements the book The Astrology of the Seers and 
goes in depth into this profound system of knowledge. Based on a study 
guide to the book it leads the student into the whole field of Vedic 
Astrology. Topics include — 

• An indepth study and analysis of the Nakshatras or asterisms accord¬ 
ing to their Vedic deities and underlying qualities. How to use the 
Nakshatras along with the signs of the zodiac. 

• An examination of planetary types according to psycho-physical con¬ 
stitutions. 

• An examination of Shadbala or the system of determining planetary 
strengths and weaknesses. 

• Gem therapy and astrological gem usage. 

• Medical Astrology and Ayurveda. The use of diet, herbs, aromas and 
colors based on astrological positions. Planets and disease. Planets 
and physical constitution. 

• Spiritual astrology, the paths of Yoga and the usage of mantras and 
deities in Vedic astrology. 

• Karmic astrology, emphasizing the role of the Lunar Nodes. 

• Comparative analysis of charts for relationship issues. 





333 


The Astrology of the Seers 


• Business astrology, choosing favorable times for ventures. 

• Step by step procedure on how to give a Vedic astrological reading. 

The orientation of the course is toward a spiritual and healing astrol¬ 
ogy. It is meant to stimulate creative thinking on the part of the student, 
not just to impose a belief system upon them. The goal of the course is to 
provide the foundation to allow the student to become a life counselor 
using the tools of Vedic astrology and Vedic science. Certification, as well 
as options for further study, are available upon completion. 

AYURVEDIC CORRESPONDENCE COURSE 

This course complements the book Ayurvedic Healing, A Compre¬ 
hensive Guide. It covers all the main aspects of Ayurvedic Medicine and 
explains Ayurveda as part of the science of Yoga. It includes study 
questions and exercises. 

PART 1 Introduction, Historical and Spiritual Background, and a com¬ 
prehensive examination of Ayurvedic Anatomy and Physiol¬ 
ogy (Doshas, Dhatus, Malas, S rotas, Kalas, Organs). 

PART II Constitutional Analysis, Mental Nature, the Disease Process, 
Examination of Disease, Diagnosis (pulse, tongue and abdo¬ 
men) and Patient Examination, Yoga and Ayurvedic Psychol¬ 
ogy. 

PART III Dietary Therapy, Herbal Therapy, Ayurvedic Therapeutic Ap¬ 
proaches (including Pancha Karma), Subtle Healing Modali¬ 
ties of Ayurveda and Practical Application of Yoga 
Psychology. 

PART IV Summary of Medical Systems, Patterns of Doshic Accumula¬ 

tion, TVeatment Methods through Channel Systems, the Sci¬ 
ence of Prana or the Life-Force and Outline of an Integral 
Healing System. 

The course has been approved by Ayurvedic doctors in India. Addi¬ 
tional study tapes are available, as well as options for advanced study. 
Certification is offered upon completion. 

For course information send a S.A.S.E. to: 

AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF VEDIC STUDIES 

P.O. BOX 8357 

SANTA FE, NM 87504-8357 


£7 ^HxtxrlxrajjCjaJ. ( UfuuLl±A. 



Bibliography 


334 


BIODATA 

. Dr. David Frawley is a modem teacher of the comprehensive system 
of Yedic and Yogic Science, much like the Vedic seers of old. He is 
acknowledged as an Ayurvedic healer, Vedic astrologer, teacher of Yoga 
and meditation, and a Sanskrit scholar. Over the past twelve years he has 
written many books and articles on the different aspects of Vedic knowl¬ 
edge for publication both in the United States and in India. 

His Indian books include Hymns From the Golden Age (1986), 
Beyond the Mind (1984) and The Creative Vision of the Early Upanishads 
(1982). His American titles include Ayurvedic Healing, A Comprehensive 
Guide (1989), The Yoga of Herbs (1986) and From the River of Heaven 
(1990). He also has a doctor’s degree (O.M.D.) in Chinese medicine and 
is a published I Ching scholar both in the United States and China. 

Dr. Frawley is the director of the American Institute of Vedic Studies, 
which aims to provide educational material for a modem restoration of 
Vedic knowledge, including Ayurveda, Vedic astrology, Vedic studies and 
Yoga. 


£ 7 ^Hx/xrlxrolcjoJ. < EJiial£IlA. 



Index 


A 

Abhijit, 63, 64,134 

Adam, 81 

Afghanistan, 41 

age of Aquarius, 44,45,57, 58 

Agni, 241,261 

Ajna chakra, 229 

Akshavedamsha, 189; See also Har¬ 
monic fourty-fifth 
aloe, 246,253 
aloe gel, 253 
amalaki, 253 
Amatyakaraka, 131 
amethyst, 254,264 
Angular houses, 142-144 
Antar Dasha, 200-201 
Antares, 44 
Anuradha, 133 
Apachaya, 145 
Apas, 261 
Aphrodite, 253 
Apoklima, 143 
Apollo, See Sun 

Aquarius, 48,50, 51, 107, 108, 109, 
124, 216, 220,229, 230, 231,232, 
233, 

Aquarius ascendant, 161,162, 163, 
164,165,243,247,252,254 
Ardra, 133 
Ares, 246 

Aries, 49,51, 107, 108, 117, 145, 
216,219,229,231,232,233,254, 
255; in north Indian chart, 54 
Aries ascendant, 159-160,161,163, 
164, 165,240,245,248,250, 
art and mantra, 38 
Artha, 41 
asafoetida, 246 
Ashiesha, 133 


ashwagandha, 246,250,255 
Ashwini, 133,134 
Assyria, 59 
astragalus, 246,250 
astral body, 35, 37, 81, 84, 85 
astral world, 34 

astrology, and ancient cultures, 21, 
spiritual use of, 22 
Atlantis, 63,97 
Atma, 38, 80, 226 
Atma Vidya, 38 

Atmakaraka, 131-132,192,194,195, 
204 

autumnal equinox, 45 
ayanamsha, 51-553 
Ayurveda, 21,39,209,211,215,217, 
222 

B 

Babylonia, 21,41,43,47,59 
Bailey, Alice, 236 
bala, 244,250 
Basil, 248 

bayberty, 241,257,259 
Benefic, 75-77,142,145,148-149, 
176 

betony, 248 
Bhadra Yoga, 179 
Bhagavad Gita, 64 
Bhakti Yoga, 194,244, 253, 258 
Bhamsha, See Harmonic twenty-sev¬ 
enth 

Bharani, 133,134 
Bhasin, I. N., ayanamsha, 52 
Bhava Chakra, 139-142 
Bhratrikaraka, 131 
bhringaraj (eclipta), 248 
Bhukti Dasha, 198,200 
Bhumi, 89,261 
black pepper, 241,246 
blue sapphire, 254,263 
Book of bo, 265 

Brahma, 48,63,95, 195,260,261 
Brahmanaspati 95; See also Jupiter 
Brihaspati, 95; See also Jupiter, 
Brihat Parashara Hora Shastra, 39 


^7#it/<rZcmZc.a/ < EJfujjtJ±A, 



Astrology of the Seers 


336 

Bronze Age, 56,57,58,59,62 
Buddha, 81,92,99,242,249 
buddhi, 227 
Buddhists, 41 
Burma, 41 

C 

Cadent houses, 143,144 
calamus, 241,259 
camomile, 248 
camphor, 241,257,259 
Cancer, 49,107,108,119,125,127, 
133, 136,139,169, 189,216,218, 
219,229,230,231,232,233,243, 
Cancer ascendant, 160,161,162, 
164,165,238, 245, 250,255 
Cancer era, 40 

Capricorn, 49,50, 76, 107,108, 117, 
123, 125,127, 133, 136, 189,216, 
217,218,220,229,230,231,232, 

. 233, 

Capricorn ascendant, 76, 161, 164, 
165,247,250,252,254 
cardamom, 241 
cardinal, 49-50,135 
camelian, 245,264 
cat’s eye, 259,263,264 
causal body, 35, 36, 37, 82, 84 
cayenne, 241,246 
cedar, 248,255,259 
Celts, 80 
chakras, 229-233 
Chara, 109 

Chaturtamsha, 186; See also Har¬ 
monic fourth 

Chaturvimshamsha, 189; See also 
Harmonic fortieth 
Chesta Bala, 182 
Chitra, 133,261 
Chitragupta, 261 
Christ, 81,242,249 
cinnamon, 241,246,256 
citrine, 264 

combust, 71,78,175,241,245 
comfrey root, 244,255 


conjunction, 174 

Cosmic Man, 32,117,118,119, 120, 
121,122,123,124 

D 

dang gui, 253 

Dashamsha, 187; See also Harmonic 
tenth 

Dasha varga, 190 
debility, 125,126,127,128 
Decanate, 186; See also Harmonic 
third 

detriment, 127 
Dhanishta, 133,134 
Dhanus, 107; See also Sagittarius 
Dharma, 41,162 
diamond, 54,252,263 
Dig Bala, 182 
dispositorship, 79 
Divine love, 29,253 
Drekkana, 186; See also Harmonic 
third 

Drik Bala, 182 
dry ginger, 241 
Durga, 257,261,268 
Dushthana, 145 

Dwadashamsha, 188; See also Har¬ 
monic twelfth 
Dwapara Yuga, 57,58, 62 
Dwiswabhava, 109 

E 

echinacea, 246 
eclipses, 102 

Egypt, 21,33,41,43,47,59,61,97 
Eighth house, 136, 141, 146, 150, 

153.154, 155,162, 163, 164,219, 
233 - 

Eleventh house, 23,136,143,146, 

152.154, 163,219 
emerald, 247,248,262 
eucalyptus, 241,248,257 
exaltation, 125,126,127, 128,182; 

and chakras, 190,230,231,232 


/Hf/cr/cra 1<z.clL < ETfuLtJ±A. 



Index 


337 


F 

Fagan-Bradley ayanamsha, 52 
Fifth house, 136, 145, 146, 148, 150, 
153,154, 155, 194,219,233 
First house, 135, 136,137, 138, 139, 
140, 146, 147, 151,180,217,219, 
233 

fixed stars, 44,45,46,47,48,50, 51 
Fourth house, 136, 141, 145,148, 

153,165,180,191,193,195,219, 
233 

frankincense, 255,257,259 

G 

galactic center, 24,48, 49,50, 56,57, 
63-64,81, 109 
galactic Sun, 34,48,49,56 
Ganesh, 251, 268 
gardenia, 244 
garlic, 246 

garnet, 241,256,257,264 
Gemini, 49,107,108,109,118-119, 
120,125,133,136,216,219,229, 
231,232,233, 

Gemini ascendant, 159,161,162, 

164,165,245,247,252 
Gemini-Orion era, 40 
geomancy, 38 
Germans, 80 
ginseng, 246,250 

Golden Age, 56,57,58,59,60,62,63 

golden garnet, 264 

golden seal, 246 

Gomedha, 256 

gotu kola, 248, 259 

graha, 29 

Greeks, 56, 80 

green tourmaline, 247,264 

green zircon, 247 

guggul, 246,255 

Guru, 49,93 

H 

Hamsa Yoga, 179 
haritaki, 255 


harmonic charts, 52, 128, 131,132, 
140, 141, 171, 182,185, 190, 195 
harmonic first, 192 
harmonic fourth, 186,191 
harmonic fortieth, 189,195 
harmonic forty-fifth, 189,195 
harmonic ninth, 131, 132, 140, 185, 
192,195 

harmonic second, 185,190 
harmonic seventh, 186,190,192 
harmonic sixteenth, 188,193 
harmonic sixtieth, 189,195 
harmonic tenth, 187,190,193 
harmonic third, 140, 186, 191 
harmonic thirtieth, 185,189,194 
harmonic twelfth, 188,193 
harmonic twentieth, 189,193 
harmonic twenty-fourth, 189,194 
harmonic twenty-seventh, 189,194 
Hasta, 133, 198 
Hermes, 249 
hessonite garnet, 256 
Hindus, 41,43,45,56,156 
Hingashtak, 246 
holy basil (tulsi), 248 
The Holy Science, 52,56,58 
Hora, 185; See also Harmonic second 
Horary astrology, 205 

I 

IChing, 265 
Ice Age, 60,61,63 
Indra, 241,251,261 
Indrani, 261 
iris, 253 

Iron Age, 56, 57,58,59 
Ishta Devata, 148, 194 
Isis, 244 

J 

jade, 247 
Jains, 41 

jasmine, 244,253 
jatamansi, 248 
Jnana, 163, 194 


?7#if/<rZcra.Zc.a/ ( U~U.uj£J+.A- 



Astrology of the Seers 


338 

Jnana Yoga, 163, 194 
Jnatikaraka, 132 
lung, 27, 236 
juniper, 255,259 
Jupiter, 26, 33,49-50, 67,68, 69,71, 
72, 76,77, 83, 89, 90, 92,93-95, 
96,98,100,101,107,108, 109, 
112,122,124,126, 127, 128,129, 
133, 150,152,154,155, 157,158, 

163.164.170.171.172, 174,175, 
179,182,190, 192, 193, 194, 195, 
197-198, 199,200, 201,204, 205, 
215,217,225,227,229,231,232, 
233,239,249-251,261, 262,263, 
264,266,268 

Jyotish, 41 

K 

Kala Bala, 182 

Kali Yuga, 57,58,59,255,268 
Kama, 41 

Kanya, 107; See also Virgo 
Kapha, 211,214, 215,243 
Kataka, 107; See also Cancer 
Kendra, 142, 182 

Ketu, 26, 68, 69,70, 71,77,78, 101- 
106, 112, 128,129, 133, 145, 150, 

155.171.172, 174, 176- 177, 197, 
200,201,213,215,218,225,228, 
258-260,261,262,263,264,267, 
268 

Krishna, 58, 64,242, 249, 253 
Krittika, 40,133, 134 
Kuja Dosha, 181 
Kumbha, 107; See also Aquarius 
Kwan Yin, 244 

L 

Lahiri ayanamsha, 52 
Lakshmi, 244,253,268 
Lalita, 253 
lapis lazuli, 254 

Leo, 49,50, 107, 108, 119, 120, 127, 
133,136, 145,216,219, 229,230, 
231,232,233,240, 


Leo ascendant, 159-162, 163, 164, 
165,238,245,250,255 
Libra, 45,49,50, 105,107,108, 121, 
125,127,133,136,142,157,216, 
219,229,231,232,233,240, 

Libra ascendant, 138,161,162, 163, 
164,165,238,247,250,252,254 
licorice, 250 
lily, 244,253 
long pepper, 241 

lotus, 226,230,244,248,253,257, 
262 

Lucifer, 28 
Lunar Yogas, 178 

M 

Magha, 133 

Maha Dasha, 198, 199,200 
Mahadevi, 23,244 
Mahapurusha Yogas, 179,180 
Mahashakti, 23,244 
Makara, 107; See also Capricorn 
malachite, 254 
Malavya Yoga, 179 
Malefic, 75,76,77,142, 144, 145, 
149,218,239 
Manas, 226 

mantra, 38, 39, 148, 156, 203,210, 
211,222,224,235,237,238,239, 
241,244,246,248,249,251,253, 
255,257,259,261,264,267,268 
Manu, 56,57,81 

Mars, 26, 28, 31, 32, 36,49,67, 68, 
69,70,71,72,77,78,79, 82,87- 
90,93,95,96,97,100, 106,107, 
112,117,122, 126,127,128,129, 
133,145,150, 152,154, 155, 157, 
158,163,164,170,171,172,174, 
175,179,181, 182, 197-198, 199, 
200,201,205,215,217,218,224, 
226,229,231,232,233,239,245- 
247,261,262,263,264,265,267, 
268 

marshmallow, 244 
Matriputrakaraka, 132 


JLc/cr/cra ieaZ ( UujM.‘tI±A. 



Index 


339 


medicine and mantra, 38 
Mercury, 26,32,67,68,69,70,71, 
72,73,77,78,87,90-93,94,107, 
108, 109, 112, 118, 120, 125, 126, 
127,128, 129, 133, 152,154, 155, 
158, 159, 160, 164, 165, 171, 175, 
177,179,182,190,191,193,194, 
197,198, 200, 201, 205,212, 215, 
217,222,224,227,229,231,232, 
233,239, 240,241, 246, 247-249, 
261,262,263, 264,266,268 
Mesha, 107; See also Aries 
Mina, 107; See also Pisces 
mint, 248 

Mithuna, 107; See also Gemini 
Moksha, 41,42, 105 
Moon, 23, 24, 26,28, 29, 32, 34, 35, 
36,40,49, 67, 68, 69,70,71,72, 
77,78, 80, 84-87, 88, 92, 102,104, 
107, 108, 112, 116, 119, 125, 126, 
127, 128-129, 133, 135, 137, 140- 
141,146, 152, 154,158, 159-160, 
164,165,171,175,177,178,182, 
190, 191, 193,194, 195, 197, 198, 
199,204, 205,214,215,216,217, 
218,222,224, 226,229, 231,232, 
233,242-244,261,262,263,264, 
265,268 

gateway to astral worlds, 34 
Mrigashira, 40, 133, 134 
Mula, 48,127,133,159 
music, 38 

mutable, 49,50,70,71,73,78,85, 
91, 111 

mutual reception, 172 
myrrh, 246,255,259 

N 

nadir, 148 

Naisargika Bala, 182 
nakshatras, 40 
Narayana, 261 

Navamsha, 128, 131, 140, 141, 185, 
187,192,194,204; See also Har¬ 
monic ninth 


Neptune, 51, 56, 68,70, 72, 78, 106, 
109,128, 155, 174,175,201 
Ninth house, 136, 141, 144, 146, 148, 
151,153, 154,159,192,194, 195, 
204,219, 220, 238 

0 

onions, 246 

opposition, 127, 149, 150, 156, 167, 
168, 169, 171, 174, 180,225,241, 
249 

Orion, 40 

P 

Panapara, 143 
Parvati, 244,246,251,261 
passion flower, 248,259 
pearl, 243,262 
peridot, 247 
Persia, 41 
philosophy, 38 

Pisces, 49, 50,51,107, 108, 109, 

124, 125, 133, 137, 181,216,219, 
220,229,231,232,233 
Pisces ascendant, 159, 160,162, 163, 
164,165,243,245,247,250,252, 
255 

Pitrikaraka, 132 

Pitta, 115,211,213,215,217,218, 
241,245,259 

planetary periods, 52, 134, 157, 197, 
198,200,201,202,203,204,206 
planetary rays, 25,29,33,34, 35 
planetary war, 176 
Plato, 63 
Pleiades, 33,40 
plumeria (frangipani), 248 
Pluto, 51, 56, 68,70,72,78, 106, 
109, 128, 155, 174-175, 201; the 
Roman God, 259 
poetry, 38 
Prajapati, 261 
Prarshara Shakti, 39 
precession, 44 
progressions, 197 


^7#if/<rZcm.Zc.a/ { t!*LUjLl±A. 



340 

Punarvasu, 40, 133, 134 


Astrology of the Seers 


Purva Phalgum, 133 
Purvabhadra, 133 
Purvashadha, 133 
Pushya, 133 

Q 

quartz crystal, 252,264 
quincunx, 169, 172 

R 

Rahu, 26,68,69, 70, 71, 73, 75,77, 
78, 85, 101-108, 109, 112, 128, 
129, 133,145,150,155,171, 172, 
174, 176, 177,197, 198, 199,201, 
212,213,215,218, 220, 225,228, 
239,256-258,261,262,263,264, 
267 

Raja Yoga, 163, 165, 180,251 

Raja Yoga karaka, 161 

Rajas, 69, 110 

Rama, 58,59,242,257 

B.V. Raman ayanamsha, 52 

Rashi Chakra, 54, 140, 141, 185, 190 

red coral, 245 

red raspberry, 253 

rehmannia, 244,253 

retrograde, 177 

Revati, 52, 133 

Rig Veda, 39,40,55,60 

rishis, 38 

Rohini, 133,134 

Romans, 80 

rose, 253 

ruby, 240, 262 

Ruchaka Yoga, 179 

Rudra, 259 

Russian Central Asia, 41 
S 

saffron, 241,246,253 
sage, 236,248, 255,257, 259 
Sagittarius, 49,50,63, 107,108, 122, 
127,133, 136, 145, 181, 216, 217, 
219, 220, 229,231,232,233, 240, 
241,243 


Sagittarius ascendant, 160,162,164, 
165,245, 250,252,255 
sambandha, 175 

sandalwood, 244,248,255, 257, 268 
Saptamsha, 186; See also Harmonic 
seventh 

Saptavarga, 182, 190 
Sarpa, 261 

Sattva, 69, 70, 111, 143 
Saturn, 24, 26,67, 68, 69, 71, 72, 73, 
74,75,77,78, 82,85,90,92,95- 
101,107,112,123, 124,126,127, 
128, 129,133, 152, 154, 155, 157, 
159,161,164,165,169,171,172, 
174,175,176,177,180,182,190, 
193, 195,197, 198, 199,201,203, 
205,212,215,217,218,219,225, 
227-228,229,231,232,233,239, 
254-256,261,262,263,264,266, 
267 

Satya Yuga, 56, 58 
Scorpio, 48,49,50,106,107,108, 
109, 122, 125, 127, 133, 136, 181, 
216,217,219,229,231,232,233, 
240 

Scorpio ascendant, 159-160, 161, 
162,163, 164, 165, 243,245,248, 
250,255 

Second house, 105, 136, 140,146, 
155,163,191,219,233 
sesame seeds, 250 
seven rays of creation, 32,48 
Seventh house, 78, 136, 141, 145, 
149,150,153,154, 172,181, 182, 
192,206,219,233,246 
sextile, 167,168,172 
Shadbala, 171, 174, 181, 182, 183 
Shadvarga, 190 
Shakti, 107; See also Moon 
Shasha Yoga, 180 
Shashtiamsha, 189; See also Har¬ 
monic sixtieth 
Shatabhishak, 133 
shatavari, 244,253 
shilajit, 255 


^7#if/<rZcra.Zc.a/ < EJiui4JlA. 



Index 


341 


Shiva, 23, 26, 84, 101,195, 242,244, 
246,251,255,257,259,261 
Shodashamsha, 188; See also Har¬ 
monic sixteenth 
Shodashavarga, 190 
Shravana, 133,134 
Siddhamsha, 189; See also Harmonic 
twenty-fourth 

Sidereal zodiac, 44,45,46,47,48, 
49,51 

signs, animals of, 107 
Sikhs, 41 

Silver Age, 56,57, 58,59, 60,268 
Simha, 107; See also Leo 
Sixth house, 76, 136, 145, 149, 154, 
155, 159, 160, 162, 163, 217, 218, 
219,220, 233 
Skanda, 246,261 
skullcap, 248,259 
Slavs, 80 
slippery elm, 244 
Solomon’s seal, 244 
Soma, 107; See also Moon 
square aspect, 80, 139,167,169, 170, 
172,264 
Sri Lanka, 41 
Sthana Bala, 182 
Sthira, 109 
Strikaraka, 132 
Succendent houses, 143, 144 
Sukshma Antar Dasha, 201 
Summer solistice, 45 
Sun, 23,24,26,27,28,29, 30,32, 

34,35,37,38,49,50,51,56,57, 
64,67,68,69,70,71,72,74,77, 
78,79, 80, 81-83,84, 86,87,101, 
102,104, 105, 107, 108, 112,116, 
119, 125, 126, 127, 128, 129, 133, 
146, 150, 152, 154, 155, 159, 160, 
165,169, 171, 175, 176, 177, 182, 
190, 191, 193, 197, 199, 200, 204, 
205,213, 215,217, 218,220, 224, 
226, 229, 230,231, 232,233, 239, 
240-242,261,262, 263,264,265 
Surya, 107; See also Sim 


Swati, 133 

T 

Tamas, 69,70,71,79, 109,110, 111, 
179 

Tanur Bhava, 146 
Tara, 244 

Thurus, 40,49, 107, 108, 117-118, 
125, 127, 133, 136,216,217,219, 
229, 231, 232, 233,243, 

Taurus ascendant, 163, 164, 165, 247, 
250,252,254 

Tfenth house, 126, 135, 136, 137, 138, 
139, 144, 151, 153,164,182,193, 
220,233 
Theosophy, 236 

Third house, 106, 136, 145, 146, 147, 
153, 155, 191,219,233 
Thoth, 249 
Tibet, 41 

Time, gods of, 23 
transits, 78, 197, 201 
Tieta Yuga, 56, 58 
IHkatu, 241 
TKkona, 144 

THmshamsha, 189; See also Har¬ 
monic thirtieth 
trine aspect, 167 
Iriphala, 255 
Topic of Cancer, 44-45 
Topic of Capricorn, 44-45 
Topical zodiac, 44, 45,47,48,49,51 
Tula, 107; See also Libra 
Tirmeric, 246 

Twelfth house, 136,137,142, 145, 
153,154,155,159,160,162,176, 
177, 178, 180, 193,218,219,220, 
233,259 

U 

Upachaya, 144 

Uranus, 24, 51, 68,70, 72,73, 78,75, 
106,109,128,155,174,175,201 
Uttara Phalguni, 133 
Uttarabhadra, 133 


^HjdxrLxrml.cja-L < EJhjj4JlA. 




Copyrighted Material 


Vedic Astrology, also called Jyotisb , is the traditional 
astrology of India and its profound yogic culture. It 
possesses a precise predictive value and a deep 
interpretation of the movement of life, unfolding 
the secrets of karma and destiny. 



The Astrology of the Seen is a modern classic on Vedic astrology, 
covering all the main aspects of its philosophy, background and practice, 
including chart interpretation and methods of balancing planetary 
influences such as mantra and gem therapy. The present edition has been 
thoroughly revised and updated. 


The Astrology of the Seers is a great introduction to Vedic astrology 
and, most importandy, clearly presents its spiritual and yogic basis. 
I recommend the book to everyone looking for a good place to 
approach this profound system of life-analysis. 

Chakrapani Ullal. World Renowned Vedic Astrologer 


The Astrology of the Seers is already considered to be a classic text 
in the field and a solid cornerstone for any Vedic science library. 
The chapter on remedial measures for strengthening planetary 
energies is a uniquely valuable resource guide for inner healing. 

Dennis M. Harness, Pti.D., Author of The Nakshatras 


Not only is the Astrology of the Seers a good introduction to Hindu 
Jyotisha, but it is also a mine of information on the subject. 

Goyotri Devi Vosudev, Editor of the Astrological Magazine 



David Frawley is the author of over twenty hooks on 
the spiritual wisdom of India where he is recognized as a 
Pandit and a Vedic teacher. He has been awarded the 
titles of Jyotish Kovid and Jyotisb Vachaspati by the 
Indian Council of Astrological Sciences under the auspices 
of Dr. B. V. Raman. He is the president of the American 
Council of Vedic Astrology and director of the American 
Institute of Vedic Studies. 










