
Brihat Parasara 
Hora Sastra 

Of 

MAHARSHI PARASARA 

ft*T *TT*5m 

VOL I 

English translation, commentary, 
annotation and editing 
by 

R. SAN THAN AM 




Rahjan Publications 

1 6 Ansari Road, Darya Ganj, - j 
New Delhi- 1 10002 (India ),' 

.. Au 


CONTENTS 

Ch. Details , page 

Preface by translator 10 

1, THE CREATION 17 

2, GREAT INCARNATIONS (OF THE LORD) 22 


3 PLANETARY CHARACTERS AND DESCRIPTION 24 
Names of planets, benefics and malefics, planetary 

. governances, cabinet, complexions, deities, sex, com- 
pounds, castes, description of planets from Sun to 
Ketu, Saptba Dbatus, Ritus, planetary tastes, stre- 
ngths, trees, Dhatu, Moola & Jeeva divisions, exalta- 
tion and debilitation, additional dignities, natural 
relationships, temporary relationships, Upagrahas, 
effects thereof, calculation of Gulika etc., Gulika’a 
exact position, Pranapada, etc. 

4. ZODIACAL SIGNS DESCRIBED 48 

Importance of Hora, Names of signs. Limbs of Kala- 
purusha, classification of signs, 12 signs described, 

and Nisheka Lagna, 

5. SPECIAL ASCENDANTS 62 

Bhava Lagna, Ghatika Lagna, Hora Lagna, Use of 
special ascendants, Varnada Dasa and effects of 
Varcada. 

6. THE SIXTEEN DIVISIONS OF A SIGN 67 

Names of the 16 vargas, Rasi and Hora, Decanate, 
Cbaturthamsa, Sapthamsa, Navamsa, Dasamsa, 
Dvadasamsa, Shodasamsa, Vimsamsa, Siddhamsa, 
Bhamsa, Trimsamsa, Chatvarimsamsa, Akshave- 
damsa, Shashtiamsa, Varga classification, etc. 



4 


7, DIVISIONAL CONSIDERATION 91 

Use of the 16 divisions, Hora, Decanate anu Trimsa- 
msa effects, Vimsopaka strength, Vimsopka propor- 
tional evaluation, other sources of strength, Dasa 
effects with Vimsopaka strength, names of bhavas, 
indications from houses, etc. 


8. ASPECTS OF THE SIGNS 105 

Sign aspects, planetary aspects, aspectual diagram etc. 

9. EVILS AT BIRTH 109 

Short life combinations, evils to mother, evils to 
father, and about parents. 

10. ANTIDOTES FOR EVILS 118 

1 1 . JUDGEMENT OF HOUSES 120 

Indications of houses form 1st to 12th, prosperity or 
annihilation of a house. . 

12. EFFECTS OF FIRST HOUSE 126 

Physical comforts, bodily beauty, other benefits, 
coiled birth, birth of twins, to be nurtured by three 
mothers, Moon equated to ascendant, decanates and 
bodily limbs and affectation to limbs. 

1 3. EFFECTS OF THE 2nd HO USE 1 32 


Combinations for wealth, and for poverty, loss of 
wealth through the king, expenses on good accounts, 
fame, effortless acquisition, eyes, truthlessness. 

14. EFFECTS OF THE 3rd HOUSE 1 37 

Female and male cobom, number of brothers and 
sisters, adverse planets. 

15. EFFECTS OF THE 4th HOUSE 142 

Housing comforts, miscellaneous, relatives, long- 
living mother, happiness to mother,' quadrupeds, 
dumbness, conveyances. 



5 


16 . EFFECTS OF THE 5th HOUSE 145 

Happiness through children, no offspring, death of 
first child, difficult progeny, adopted issues, 3 
mothers and 2 fathers, many children, obtaining 
daughters, questionable birth, mean children, child 
at the age or 30, 36, 40, 32, 33 and 56 and number of 
children. 

17. EFFECTS OF THE 6th HOUSE 152 

Ulcer/bruises, relatives affected, facial diseases, 
leprosy, diseases in general, timing of illness, unfortu- 
nate years, loss through enemies, inimical sons and 
fear from dogs. 

18 . EFFECTS OF THE 7th HOUSE 160 

Sick wife, excessive libidinousness, death of wife, 
many wives, miscellaneous matters, worthy spouse, 
evils to spouse, loss of spouse, lack of conjugal 
felicity, time of marriage, timing of wife’s death, 
three marriages and shortlived wife. 

19 . EFFECTS OF THE 8th HOUSE 169 

Long life, short life, Saturn and 10th lord in longe- 
vity. 

20. EFFECTS OF THE 9th HOUSE 173 

Combinations for fortunes, fortunate father, indigent 
father, long living father, wealthy and famons father, 
virtuous and devoted to father, fortunes, inimical to 
father, begged food, combinations for father’s death, 
fortunate periods, lack of fortunes. 

21 . EFFECTS OF THE 10th HOUSE 178 

Paternal happiness, performing religious sacrifices, 
royal patronage, carnal pleasures, ornaments, cessa- 
tion of duties, learned, wealthy, lack of virtuous acta, 
obstructions to activities, combinations for fame. 



18 3 


« 

22. EFFECTS OF THE 1 1th HOUSE 
Many gains, income in Nishkas, no gains, wealth 
through coborn. 

23. EFFECTS OF THE 12 th HOUSE 1 86 

Expenses on good account, beautiful houses and bed, 
begetting a spouse, planets in visible and invisible 
halves, going to hell, final emancipation, wandering 

in the country, earning through sinful measures, 
expenditure on religious grounds. 

24. EFFFETS OF THE BHA VA LORDS J 89 

Effeet* of the 12 bhava lords in various houses (total 

144 combinations), clues to sort out mutually contra* 
dictory effects. 

25. EFFECTS OF NON-LUMINOUS PLANETS 236 

Dhuma in various houses, Vyatipala in various 
houses, Paridbi in various bouses, Chapa in various 
houses, Dhwaja in various bouses, Gulika in various • 
house, Pranapada's positional effects with 

reference to natal ascendant. 

26. EVALtJATION OF PLANETAR Y ASPECTS 254 

Planetary aspects, aspectual evaluations, Special rules 
-for aspects of Saturn, Mars and Jupitor. 

27. Evaluation of strengths 263 

Sthaana bala, Sapthavargajabala, Ojhayugmarasi- 
amsabala, Kendradibala, Drekkaoa bala, Digbala, 
Kaalabala, Paksba bala, Tribhagabala, Varsha-Masa- 
Dina-Hora bala, Naisargika bala, Ayana bala, 
Motional strength of Sun and Moon, Dfigbala, 
planetary war, motional strength for Mars etc., 
Bbavabalas, Shad bala requirements, Bhava effects, 
Eligibility to issue predictions. 

28. ISHTA AND KASHTA BALAS 289 

Exaltation rays, Cheshta Rasmi, beneficial and malefic 



7 


fays, benefic and malefic tendencies, nature of effect* 
due to digbala etc., Saptavargaja bala and ishta 
kashta, effects of a bhava. 

29. BHAVA PAD AS 

Method of Pada calculations, special exceptions, 
Padas for planets, Pada and finance, Pada and 
financial losses, Gainful sources, 7th house from Pada, 
General. 

30. UP A PADA 

Upapada calculation, effect of 2nd from Upa pada, 
wife from the 2nd of Upapada, about sons, obtain- 
ment of many sons and many daughters, coborn from 
Lagoa Pada, other matters from Lagna pada. 

31. ARGALA OR PLANETARY INTERVENTION 
Formation of Argala, Argala effects. 

32. PLANETARY KARAK ATW AS 

Atmakaraka defined, importance of Atmakaraka, 
other Karakas, Yogakarakas or mutual coworkers, 
house significance. 

33. EFFECTS OF KARAK A MS A 

Karakamsa in various signs, effects of planets in 
Karakamsa, Rahu-Sun in Karakamsa, Gulika in 
Karakamsa, effects of aspects on Ketu in Karakamsa, 
effects of 2nd from Kaiakamsa, 3rd from' Kara- 
kamoa, 4th from Karakamsa, 5th from Karakamsa, 
6th from Karakamsa, 7th from Karakamsa, 8th from 
Karakamsa, 9th from Karakamsa, 10th from Kara- 
kamsa, 1 Ith from Karakamsa, 12th from Karakamsa, 
planets in 5th from Karakamsa. 

34. YOGA K ARAKAS 

Nature due to lordships of planets, natural benefice 
and malefics, angular and trinal lordships, angular 
lordship, Rahu and Ketu, Planets & Aries ascendant. 


292 

303 

311 

316 

327 


340 



8 


Taurus ascendant, Gemini ascendant. Cancer ascen- 
dant, Leo ascendant, Virgo ascendant, Libra ascen- 
dant, Scorpio ascendant, Sagittarius ascendant, 
Capricorn ascendant, Aquarius ascendant, and Pisces 
ascendant, General, 

35. NABHASA YOGAS 357 

Formation and effects of Rajju, Musala, Nala, Maala 
Sarpa, Gada, Sakata, Vihaga, Sringataka, Hala, 
V^jra, Yava, Kamala, Vapi, Yupa, Sara, Sakthi, 
Danda, Nauka, Koota, Chatra, Chapa, Chakra, 
Samudra, Gola, Yuga, Soola, Kedara, Pasa, Dama 
undVeena Yogas. 

36. MANY OTHER YOGAS 366 

Subha, Asubha, Gajakesari, Amala, Parvatha, Kabala, 
Chamara, Sankha, Bheri, Mridanga, Srinatha, 
Sarada, Matsya, Koorma, Khadga, Lakshmi, 
Kusuma, Kalanidhi, Kalpadruma, Trimurthi, and 
Lagnadhi Yogas. 

37. LUNAR YOGAS 384 

Adhiyoga from the Moon, Dhana Yoga, Sunapha, 
Anapha, Duradhura and Kemadruma Yogas. 

38. SOLAR YOGAS 386 

Vesi, Vosi and Ubhayachari Yogas, effects of these 
Yogas. 

39. RAJA YOGAS 

Kingly Yogas forming in various manners. 

40. YOGAS FOR ROYAL ASSOCIATION 

41. YOGAS FOR WEALTH 

Yogas for affluence, effects of angular lord’s divi- 
sional dignities, effects of 5th lord’s divisional digni- 
ties, effects of 9th lord’s divisional dignities, angular 


387 

399 



9 


and trinal lords related, effects of divisional dignities 
of the two planets related. 

42. COMBINATIONS FOR PENURY 413 

43. LONGEVITY 416 

Pindayu, rectifications, deductions for planets in the 
visible half, malefics in ascendant, ascendant’s contri- 
bution, Naisargayu, Amsayu, ’ongevity for other 
living beings, full life span of various living beings, 
choice of longevity, doubtfbl cases clarified, other 
clues to longevity, further clarifications, rectifications, 
special rules for Saturn and Jupiter, increase and fall 

in class of longevity, limitless longevity, supernatural 
longevity, living till the end of yuga, living the life 
span of a sage. 

44. MAR AKA (KILLER) PLANETS 440 

Marakas based on lordship, maraka dasa, star groups 
related to death, Rahu-Kctu as Marakas, 3rd house 

and death, occupants of the 8th house, fate of the 
corpse, serpent decauates, prenatal abode, asceut after 
death, 

45. A VASTHAS OF PLANETS 448 

Infant state etc,, Awakening, dreaming and sleeping 
states, Deepta and other 8 states, Lajjitadi avasthas, 
calculation of Sayana and other 1 1 Avasthas, effects 

of Cheshta ete. effects of Sayanadi Avasthas for 
planets from the Sun to Ketu. 


ERRATA 


483 



Preface 


Presented herewith with pleasure is the first-ever English 
translation of the full text of the available version of Maliarshi 
Parasara’s Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra. But for the blessings 
of Lord Ganesa this would have been as uphill task forme. 

Sri Maha Vishnu is the god f gods. So is ParasaraHora— 
the book of books in the field of astrology. 

The work is in the form of a carritch between sage Parasara 
and his disciple Maitreya who later himself became a worthy 
sage. Parasara belonging to Vasishta’s lineage was Veda Vyasa’s 
father. As could be seen in the course of progressing thorugh 
the text, sage Saunaka was the preceptor of Parasara in the 
inatter of astrology. Saunaka was one of the earliest sages and 

was Garga's disciple. 

The date of Parasara could be attributed to be roughly the 
efa of Dharma Raja of Maha Bharata. This can be understood 
when the sage states “in the present Yuga, Dharma Raja is bom 
with the combination of...” He further states that Salivahana 
'will be born with the same combination...’ Further, the reader 
could find statements relating to the horoscopic yogas of Maha 
Vishnu, Prajapati, Swayambhu Manu etc. which statement 
could possibly be made by no ordinary mortal. 

Varaha Mihira in Brihat Sambita, Kalyana Varma in 
Saravali and many such other illustrious authors gave references 
Of Parasara’s astrological statements. 

Parasara Hora finds its translation in Bengali, Malayalam 
etc. which translations however have not been seen by me. I 
have with me the following versions. 

1. Sri Venkateswata Press, Bombay, partly rendered in Hindi. 

For a majority of slokas, one can find Sanskrit commen- 
tary only. 



11 


2. Hindi translation by Siiarara Jha. (Master Khelari Lai, 
Varanasi edition) 

3. Hindi translation by Devachandra Jha (Chaukambha 
edition) 

4 . Hindi translation by Ganesa Datta Pathak (Thakur Prasad 
edition) 

After scrutinizing critically the four manuscripts, I have 
for reasona of more credibility chosen the Sanskrit version 
rendered by Sitararm Jha. The Chaukambha version is almost 
the same as that of Khclari Lai’s. 

Other versions that I have come across are : 

1. Tamil translation by C. G. Rajan— for only 36 chapters, 
without Sanskrit verses. 

2. English translation by N. N. K. Rao for only 25 chapters, 
without Sanskrit slokas. 

Thus, I have felt a need to make the original version 
available in English to the fullest possible extent. Our version 
has 97 chapters containing English translation and exhaustive 
annotations and examples. 

To handle the publication easily, we have divided the work 
in two volumes. The present Volume— first volume— contains 45 
chapters while the remaining 52 chapters have been put in the 
second volume. 

Chapter 1 and chapter 2 give some preliminary extra- 
astrological information. From chapter 3, the astrological 
information begins, ■ In this chapter, planetary descriptions, 
benefics and malefics, planetary deities, complexions, sex, 
primordial compounds, seasons, relationships, dignities etc- are 
given. Methods of calculating the 5 Upagrahas like Dhooma 
and Muhurta Velas like Gulika are given. These are totally ten 
and have their own say on a nativity, as the other nine main 
Grabas have. So to say, these Upagrahas and Muhurta velafc 
can alter in suitable proportions the effects due to Nava Grahas. 


12 


In the matter of calculation of Galika, a different concept comes 
to light from this oldest work. The later authors have given an 
altogether variable in knowing Gulika’s position whereas 
Parasara advised that it should be cast for the beginning of 
Saturn’s Muhurta. Whereas some suggest that it should be for 
the ending Muhurta of S3turn. 

In chapter 4, each Rasi is described from various angles. 
Slokas 25-30 are the climax of this chapter. An unerring 
method to find out the Nisheka Lagna (or the moment of 
fatercourse causing conception) from the time of birth is outlined. 
Though the process of calculation is as simple as a school 
student’s mathematical quiz, it has great truth in it which even 
modern science could not discover. To prove the truth of the 
statement in the sage’s instruction, a practical example has been 
given by me. An assumed example cannot better solve the 
problem. A practical case where the time of coitus is astrologi- 
cally chosen is taken in hand; time of birth has also been got 
accurately noted. From the time of birth, the time of Nisheka 
(or of coitus) is traced whieh is not in variation, even to the 
slightest extent, with the originally noted Nisheka time. Again 
from the time of Nisheka, the birth time is traced in a forward 
manner using only traditional rules of astrology. This exercise 
proves three important points, viz- 

1. The point of M.C. is to be found out in the natal horos- 
cope and houses intersected accordingly. This is popularly 
called Sripati Paddhati- Originally Parasara advocated this 
system. 

2. Gulika’s position should be found out for the beginning of 
Saturn’s Muhurta only. 

3. Lahiri’s Ayanamsa is the first best. The reader will find 
that we have used Moon's exact longitude in the above 
process. Simple angular distance by any Ayanamsa will 
not alter the solution, but a slight change in Moon’s 
position will take us far away from the truth. With Lahjri’s 
Ayanamsa, we can safely work out even Nadiamsas, which 
change fast. 

u 



13 


The method given by me in working out the future birth 
time from the time of coition can very well help the astrologers 
to foretell the exact moment of birth from the time of query. 
Reseaches reveal that time of query has a perfect alignment with 
the time of Nisheka. 

Chapter 5 touches various special Lagnas, like Ghatika 
Lagna, Hora Lagfla and Bhava Lagna. The importance of these 
ascendanss cannot be underestimated. A final Bhava chart can 
emerge after merging the different bhava charts caused by these 
various special ascendaDts. This final bhava chart can only 
reveal the extent of planetary effects when considered housew.je 
whereas the bhava chart exclusively prepared on natal ascendant 
alone can sometimes mislead. This is what the sage emphasises 
In sloka 9. 

Cpme to chapter 6. The zodiac is divided in to sixteen 
Vargas or divisions. These are called Shodasa Vargas. How to 
find out such Vargas and their use are fully explained. These 
are from Rasi down to Shashtiamsa. In the classification, the 
vargas are made in four groups, i,e. 6 vargas, 7 Vargas, 10 Vargas 
and 16 Vargas and special technical names have been given for 
the total number of desirable vargas a planet attained for easy 
identification. For example if a planet is said to be in Golo- 
kamsa, it indicates that out of 16 Vargas, it is in 15 good V igas. 
These technical names appear in the gradation of Raja Yogas. 

Each Varga finds a certain specific use in preference to a 
planet’s Rasi position. For example, without considering the 
Dvadasamsa chart no tangible resuits due to the native’s parents 
can be known. In deciding one’s career, the Dasamsa positions 
of the planets are of supreme importance. These are highlighted 
in chapter 7. In this very chapter the sage enunciates what is 
called Vimsopaka strength of a planet. He assigns a maximum 
of 20 points taking again differently the four Varga classifications, 
viz. Shadvarga, Sapta Varga, Dasa Varga and Shodasa Varga. 
The consideration here is whether a planet is placed in own sign, 
friendly sign, enemy’s sign and the like in the concerned Varga 
scheme. Then an evaluaton is done to get Vimsopaka strength. 
This strength enables us decide the extent of auspicious effects a 
planet will be capable of revealing in a dasa. 


14 


Chapter 8 deals with what is called Jaimini aspects on Rasi 
basis. Maharshi Jaimini was the sage who expanded these 
Parasari principles very extensively m Sutra form for easy 
memorization and successful applicability. The original concept 
is however from the pen of Parasara. 

Childhood evils are discussed in chapter 9 whiie chapter 10 
prescribes planetary combinations to combat such possible evils. 

Basic information about the 12 houses could be found in 
chapter 11 while specific attention may be given to slokas 14-16. 
These 3 slokas serve an important key in knowing how a Bhava 
is going to give effects under various circumstances. 

Chapters 12-23 give a variety of information and instruc- 
tions in analysing the 12 houses of a horoscope in a systematic 
manner. A close study of these rules will tame one’s mind to 
scientifically approach the horoscope for fruitful resuts. 

Chapter '24 is again one of the most important chapters. 
Here, the various effects of a Bhava lord being in a specific house 
are given. All the 12 lords are fully covered. How to sort out 
a situation in case of contrary indications is given in slokas 
145-148. 

The bhava effects of Dhooma, Vyatipata, Gulika etc., are 
narrated fully in chapter 25. Pranapada Lagna’s position vis-a- 
vis natal ascendant also reveals certain special effects as could be 
seen in this very chapter. 

Shadbala calculations, Ishta and Kashta phalas and other 
related mathematical aspects are elaborately laid down in the 3 
chapters, viz. 26, 27 and 28. 

It is not in order if planets are studied with reference to 
mere natal chart. Padas for various houses will further alter the 
planetary effects. This is what is taught in chapter 29. Raja 
Yogas, inter alia are best analysed through Arudha chart or Pada 
chart. The sage suggests Graha Padas as well, but unfortuna- 
tely he leaves it at that without adding much information.’ 

For still deeper research, Upapada will be more effective. 
This area will give more clues particularly about marriage, finance 
and diseases. See chapter 30. 

Chapter 31 entitled ‘Argaladhyaya’ though brief has worthy 
information on planetary interventions, obstructions and effects 
thereof. 



15 


Significance of planets is treated in chapter 32. 

Karakamsa is the Navamsa Rasi occupied by Atma 
Karaka. Plenets forming a certain relationship with Karakamsa 
and their effects are narrated in chapter 33 extending to 99 
slokas. 

Chapter 34 is again one of the most instructive. Planets 
assume a certain tendency by virtue of owning a certain house. 
The sage elaborately touches such roles for various planets for 
all the 12 ascendants. He decides on such principles the Yoga 
Karakas, Voga Bhanga, Karakas and Marakas for each ascendant. 
This will enable us understand whether planet will give bene- 
ficial results or adverse effects. Death dealing planets or Mrakas 
allow us to guess the period of one’s death. 

As the name implies, chapter 35 lists Nabhasa Yogas which 
are available In most standard texts. Many new Raja Yogas 
could be found in chapter 36, like Khadga, Mridanga, Chamara, 
Kahala etc. . 

Chapters 37 and 38 deal with Lunar and Solar yogas which 
are popularly known. Raja yogas in chapter 39, Yogas for 
royal association in chapter 40, and financial combinations in 
chapter 41 deserve "Special mention, containing a variety of 
authoritative information. 

Maraka or death dealing planets bave a say on the finances 
of the native apart from causing his end. These are tersely 
enlightened in the 42nd chapter. 

The chapter on longevity, bearing No. 43, is among the 
most important ones. PindayU, Naisargayu, Amsayu and the 
like, and computations based on ascendant/planetary pairs 
linking with movable, fixed and common signs contain instruc- 
tive information. In the notes, I have taken Pindayu calculations 
and worked out a fullfiedged example touching all aspects of 
computation. I have adopted a scientific method for deductions 
for planetary contributions arising by placement in bhavas 12 
to 7. I have simply not considered bhava positions 
in these deductions but degree-wise positions of the various 
planets. I have given one common formula covering the six 
bhavas and the reader can work out the exact loss of longevity. 
This can be usefully extened to any loss of years as far as 


16 


bhavasl2to7 is concerned in other systems as well. Other 
longevity calculations have been suitably annotated by me. 

The reader will also do well to study chapter 44 concerning 
Marakas before he takes a decision on longevity. Rahu/Ketu 
have also been assigned Marakatwa roles. 

The concluding chapter of Vol 1 is the 45th dealing with a 
number of kinds of Avasthas of the planets. Out of these, the 
12 Avasthas, known as Sayanadi Avasthas are of supreme impor- 
tance. If one tries to interpret these Avasthas in proper spirit, 
he will be able to detect the diseases the native will suffer. I 
have supported my views with the help of information from 
Adbhuta Sagara of Ballala Sena and Hora Ratna of Balabhadra. 
For example, if Mars is in Agamanavastha, one will suffer from 
deep ear pains. , In the normal parlance, we consider only Jupiter 
in the context of ear defects. Diseases of hand and foot are 
assigned to Venus in Agamanavastha. If one conducts a scien- 
tific research in the matter of diseases with the help of planetary 
Avasthas, viz. Sayanadi Avasthas, one is bound to reach many 
brilliant clues. 

The present work offers a vast scope for success in predic- 
tive astrology. One can build up his own applied astrology 
instead of theoretical astrology if he works on the lines suggested 
by Maharslii Parasara. 

A word of caution is necessary for the benefit of the reader, 
In order to understand the hidden aspects of the various rules 
given herein, what is required is a thorough understanding of 
these principles. Skipping over fast to an ensuing chapter may 
not convey the real idea of a ‘present’ chapter. To make the 
reader’s Job easier, I have explained every difficult aspect as 
clearly as I understand based on my own experience and study of 
other authoritative texts, 

In the end, I would like to mention that my attempt to 
translate this great work and annotate may not have been wholly 
successful. I surely would have left some shortcomings unno- 
ticed and unrectified. From the readers, I can only expect the 
affection of forgiving me for any innocent lapses. 

New Delhi R. Saothanam 

Vijaya Dasami 1984 



to: 

Stq 

BRIHAT PARASARA 
HORA SASTRA 

[trffiffff wrwT fe li rqa 1 

OTi^cf qmfa 

r prostrate before the lotus-feet of Lord Vighneswsra, 
the offspring of Uma, the cause of destruction of sorrow, 
who is served by Bhuta ganas (the five great elements cf the 
universe) etc; who has the face of a tusker and who consumes 
the essence of Kapiththa and Jambu fruits.] 

II? II 

Chapter 1 

. The Creation 

fa-TTOST I 

ll?ll 

5^*r pi* ^r^gtTtrir i 

TT^fq fqq ^bst ! I 

eq^ri fw m *r wY! \\\\\ 

' qrq Hfefrq 3TTHT 3PlrTC^ ?fq: ? I 

• tSFTRT ^f fN’dKT ‘q q* fiR^TTTrf ? HVtl 

1-4. Offering his Pbeisance to all-knowing sage Parasaru 
and with folded hands, Maitreya said, “O Venerable, Astrology, 
the supreme limb of the Vedas, has three divisions, viz. Hora, 


18 


Brihat Porasara Hora Sastra 


Ganita and Samhita. Among the said three divisions, Hora or 
genethliac part of astrology is still more excellent, I desire to 
know of its glorious' aspects from you. Be pleased to tell me, 
“How this Universe is created ? How does it end ? What is the 
relationship of the animals born on this earth with the 
heavenly bodies ? Please speak elaborately”. 

Notes : Maitreya was Parasara’s ardent disciple. Sage 
. Parasara was the illustrious father of Bhagawan Veda Vyasa. 
Parasara Smriti, Parasara Samhita and the present work Para- 
sara Hora are some of the immortal contributions made by 
our sage. 

Parasara’s preceptor was sage Saunaka, the reputed author 
of Rigveda Pratisakbya and other vedic compositions, from 
whom he took instructions in astrology. Saunaka was taught by 
Narada, son of Lord Brahma Pitamaha in the matter of astro- 
logy and others. Narada got direct instructions from Pitamaha. 
These details are stated by sage Parasara in the concluding 
cnapter of the present work. 

The sage predicts in the course of his treatise that Saliva- 
tuna will be born In a yoga caused by relationship between an 
angular lord and a trinal lor as both are in Simhasanamsa, vide 
ch. 41 sloka 32. While the technicalities of the astrological 
part of this statement will be understood by the reader as he 
progresses with the study of this work, it will be evident that 
Parasara was much before Salivahana. The era of Sallvahana 
commenced in AD 72. Since Veda Vyasa is reverentially referred 
as Parasaratmaja, meaning the offspring of Parasara, Sage Paras- 
ara lived during Maha Bbarata era. 

Sage Maitreya’s name appears in Veda Vyasa’s Srimad 
Bhagavata Parana. Maitreya was sage Kusaru’s offspring. Sage 
Maitreya achieved a great deal of knowledge in spiritual and 
other topics. Vidura abandoned his kith and kin and met sage 
Maitreya to achieve religious merits. 

As can be seen, our text is in the form of a carritch 
between sage Parasara and Maitreya. the Master and the Disciple 
respectively. 

Astrology has three divisions, viz. Hora, Ganita and 
Samhita. Hora deals with genethliac part while mathematical 
aspects like planetary movements, strengths etc. are taught by 
the Ganita branch, Samhita means a collection or compen- 



Chapter 1 


19 


dium of law, code and digest of any branch of learning. These 
are like Rig Veda Samhita. Charaka Samhita, Vasishta Samhita 
etc. Thus Samhita is not an original work. 

tfT? qisj ^qr fqq J 1 

TTflT g*: IIX.lt 

TTc^T tfjnrFcT ^nif?<Tf?TVTWI ( 

*f*tT It^ll 

WT^rnT g^wrnr i 

anffensra srrtrT^t crt: fwmOr hum 

'T qrfn^TTT TrfeT^|i4 5T5TTJ 31 | 

f:ST JTT’sr UcU 

5-8. Parasara answered, ‘O Brahmin, your query (so to say, 
the desire to know of the intricacies of astrology) has an auspici- 
ous purpose in it for the welfare of the Universe. Praying Lord 
Brahma and Sri Saraswati, His power (and consort), and the 
Sun God, the leader of the planets and the cause of Creation, 
I shair proceed to narrate to you the science of astrology as 
heard through Lord Brahma. Only good will follow the teaching 
of this science to the students who are peacefully disposed, who 
honour the preceptors (and elders) who speak only truth and 
who are God-fearing. Woeful for ever doubtlessly will it be to 
impart knowledge of this science to an unwilling student, to a 
heterodox and to a crafty person. 

rsrwnTTTfa: \ 

il £11 

tftaTfrrftrfnem ga i w; i 

‘ ^f^cT cTrSnrm ^ H5T5175T 

fawj: JlfagTOTfacr: 



20 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


-9-12. Sri Vishnu who is the lord (of all matters), who has 
undefiled spirit, who is endowed with the three Gunas although 
he transcends the grip of Gunas (i.e. Gunatita), who is the 
Author of this Universe, who is glorious, who is the Cause and 
who is endowed with valour has no beginning. He authored 
the Universe and administers it with a quarter of his power. 
The other three quarters of Him, filled with nectar, are kno- 
wable to (only) the philosophers (of maturity). The Principal 
Evolver who is both perceptible and imperceptible is Vasu Deva. 
The Imperceptible part of the Lord is endowed with dual powers 
while the Perceptible with triple powers. 

1 1 ? 3 1 1 

ufarfacftqi m 5TTOTT ?I>HTWT \ 

ttaqiinN t 

?W:WqTsff^m ftrwpti: H^TWTf^Ttr: 

13-15. The three powers are : Sri Sakti ( Mother Lakshmi) 
with Sattwa Guna, Bhoo Sakti (Mother Earth) with Rajoguna and 
Neela Sakti with Tamoguna. Apart from the three, the fourth 
kind of Vishnu, influenced by Sri Sakti and Bhoo Sakti, assumes 
the form of Sankarshana with Tamo Guna, of Pradyumna with 
Rajoguna and of Anirudha with Satwa Guna, 

SBhI <*W1 JWctJTSpras: 1 

arpTWRT WTcft 1 

*nrj wuifcrw qa: n^n 

16-17. Mahattatwa, Ahamkara and Ahamkara Murthi, 
Brahma, are born from Samkarshana , Pradyumna and Anirudha 
respectively. AH these three forms are endowed with all the 
three gunas, with predominance of the Guna due to their origin. 

TJ^TT 

mforqrt tps mi* 





11 


Chapter 1 

fclT * | 

cTTfsr Sltffa WW i fidfi l: Hgfc|| 

18-19. Ahamkara is of three classes, i.e. with Satwik, 
Rajasik and Tamasik dispositions. Divine class, sensory organs 
and the five primordial compounds (air, earth etc.) are 
respectively from the said three Ahamkaras. 

sftwrem *f$?ft fetur: htt qrrf?r * * ?** *■ i 

wnwn fwdsFfT%i^oii 

20. Lord Vishnu coupled with Sri Sakti rules over the 
three worlds. Coupled with Bhoo Sakti, He is Brahma causing 
the Universe. Coupled wtth Neela Sakti, He is Siva, destroying 
the Universe, 

wyj ** aft** ttmiwi i 

w ftr rffer ft** ftr 

. sft** ft*R§r'*5* 

{aftrowarf *TT*T*Tftn>: ftt* ||^|| 

^ * *5*: qTBTe*rftw>rftm:u^^n 

flf**f* tT*ft*mftnrft!T: ftwm: i 

*T«TTf W*r sfamwifilWl: (I^Vll 

21-24. The Lord is in all beings and the entire Universe 
is in Him. All beings contain both Jeevatma and Paramatma 
Amsas. Some have predominance of the former while yet some 
have the latter in predominance. Paramatmamsa is predominant 
in the Grahas viz. Sun etc. and Brahma, Siva and others. Their 
powers or consorts too have predominance of Paramatmamsa. 
Others have more of Jeevatmamsa. 



3roremw*pns*roi: i R n 

Chapter 2 

Great Incarnations (Of The Lord) 

fofa Pctt ffc gftwc lutii 

1. Maitreya : “O sage, are the incarnations of ViBhnu, viz. 
Sri Rama, Sri Krishna etc. endowed with Jeevamsa ? 

TTO: ywrew fas ! I 

^ ^ffaelTCR^ sffafalfilffacTTt IRII 

2. Parasara : “O Brahmin, the four incarnations, viz. 
Rama, Krishna, Narasimha and Varaha are wholly with 
Paramaimamsa. The other incarnations (than these, out of the 
ten) have in them Jeevamsa too. 

{il'jRtf tWIiW: I 

gffaRt ^TRqRTsrt , srcre^ 11311 

tWRi ^'TITTW l 

HHHP T T RT'qfa UglMTKH: RRT: OTltf UYH 

3-4. The Unborn lord has many incarnations. He has 
incarnated as the planets {Nava Grahas ) to bestow on the living 
beings the results due to their Karmas. He is Janardana. He 
assumed the auspicious form of Grahas to destroy the demons 
(evil forces) and sustain the divine beings. 

TmtRmr: vsw iijsnw: \ 

ijfoyiw ye,: vutii 

fadU^Of ^FTSrt *TT*Nr? ^ I 

a ** s^Tfatn: \m\ 


Chapter 2 


23 


5-7 From the Sun God the incarnation of Rama, from the 
Moon that of Krishna, from Mars that of Narasimha, from 
Mercury that of Budhdha, from Jupiter that of Vamana, from 
Venus that of Parasu Rama, from Saturn that of Koorma 
(Tortoise), from Rahu that of Varaha (Pig) and from Ketu that 
of Meena (Fish) occurred. All other incarantaions than these 
also are through the Grahas. The beings with more Paramatma - 
msa are called divine beings. 

l $ SWffafTT: I 

lie; 1 1 

TWfcMIW*: # I 

mw ^ 3^: tntifm onueii 

5fhrr?if^:H?Tr^T wmi i 
^sftr ?rN f^n^oij 

W fa* ! m JTf^R ^f^i 

weTTOfa wErarfcr g rawnn Ed rrfe*: imn 

fTTT cTj^qrt^f 5TT^ ST*?*tf?T 1 

YJgTWV f%9T^cT: ll^|| 

lit ?TT: Wlfdtt Sr*l f^ld | 

?RW»‘ ^Rp^rirfrT ll?^H 

8-13. The beings with more Jeevatmamsa are (mortal) 
beings. The high degree of Paramatmamsa from the Grahas, viz. 
Sun etc, did incarnate as Rama, Krishna etc. After completing 
the, mission, the Paramatmamsas (of the respective) Grate again 
merge (in the respective) Grahas. The Jeevatma portions from 
the Grahas take births as human beings and live their lives 
according to their Karmas and again merge in the Grate. 
And at the time of Great Destruction, the Grahas as well merge 
in the Lord Vishnu. One who knows of all these, will become 
versed in the knowledge of the past, present and future. Without 
a knowledge of astrology these cannot be known. Hence every- 



24 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


one should have a knowledge of Astrology particularly the 
Brahmin. One who, devoid of astrological knowledge, blames 
this science will go to the hell called ‘Raurava’, and will be 
reborn blind. 


3TO ttfWans'TTsam: Il3ll 


Chapter 3 

Planetary Characters And 
Description 

fait 11 ^ it 

1. Maitreya : "O Sage, you have affectionately explained 
about the planetary incarnations. Now kindly detail their chara- 
cters and dispositions.” 

*jpjj finr ! ywrifa qfrftqfhq i 

3TIVTT? mfH 11^11 

^ »wrw?nfq q^Trrrfq 1 

pnfq twwwifa tnfa $11311 

2-3. Parasara : “O Brahmin, listen to the account of place- 
ment of the heavenly bodies. Out of the many luminous bodies 
sighted in the skies, some are stars; yet some are planets (i.e, 
Grahas). Those that have no movements are the Nakshatras (or 
asterisms). 

Notes : Placed in the firmaments are many stars among 
which we have, for astrological purposes, 27 stars and 7 planets. 
Rahu and Ketu though recognised as planets /or astrological 
delineations are shadowy. These two are nodes of the Moons 



25 


Chapter 3 

and are exactly apart 1 80 degrees mutually. Their positions are 
formed when the Moon crosses the ecliptic from northern latitude 
to southern one and vice versa. 

*Tlff*cT ?RTcT ^ 3 ^ l 

imi 

srfffgt TTCTO: «ff?r II *11 

i 

imnta sifanm t 

qrff ikii 

4-6. Those are called planets (or Grahas) that move 
through the Nakshatras (or asterisms) in the zodiac. The said 
zodiac comprises of 27 asterisms commencing from Aswini. 
The same area is divided in 12 parts equal to 12 Rasis (or signs) 
commencing from Aries. The names of the planets commence 
from the Sun. The sign rising is known as Lagna (or the 
ascendant). Based on the ascendant and the planets joining 
and departing from each other, the native’s good and bad effects 
are deduced. 

Notes : Planets move in the zodiac through stellar man- 
sions pr Nakshatras. The names of the 27 Nakshatras are : 

1. Aswini 2. Bharani 3. Krittika 

4. Rohini 5. Mrigasira 6. Arudra 

7. Punarvasu 8. Pushyami 9. Aslesha 

10. Makha 11. Poorva Phalguni 12. UttaraPhalguni 

13. Hastha 14. Chitta 15. Swati 

16. Visakha 17. Anuradha 18. Jyeshta 

19. Moola 20. Poorvashadha 21. Uttarashadha 

22. Sravana 23. Dhanishta • 24. Sathabhishak 

25. Poorvabkadra 26. Uttarabhadra 27. Revati 

The names of the planets are given in sloka 10 of this 
chapter. 

The ascendant is a very importat point in the horoscope. 
It is the sign that rises in the east, on the latitude of birth. The 
apparent rising of a sign is due to the rotation of the earth on its 
own axis at a rate of motion causing every degree of the zodiac 



16 


Brihat Parasara Bora Sastra 


seems to ascend on the eastern horizon. Approximately, two 
hours are required for a sign to pass via the horizon, thereby 
every degree taking four minutes to ascend, This duration 
however, is actually dependent on the concerned latitude. 

Actually the Sun has no motion. His is an apparent one 
rodT^^ 0111 -^"^^ 11 - ° ther pianets including the 

oHhe nhn r C - T ^ ° f m0ti0n ’ Tte aVerage dai 'y motions 
of the pianets, which are not, however standard, are as follows : 


The Sun 
The Moon 
Mars 
Mercury 
Venus 
Jnpiter 
Saturn 
Node 


l c 

13—15° 
30 — 45' 
65— 1 00' 
62—82' 
5—15' 
2 ' 

3' 


With ! i e mot !° ns ’ a P ]a °et forms various aspects 
With others These aspects through longitudinal distances have 
a great deal of utility in astrology. This is what the sage sugge- 
sts to be considered. & 


TOTT &TT: HHTTfimiPRf.' 1 

7. Details (of astronomical nature) of stars be understood 
by general rules while 1 narrate to you about the effects of 
planets and signs. 


Notes : Planetary movements can be fully understood from 
astronomical literature ahd Samhitas. Narada Samhita, Varga 
Samhita, Vasishta Samhita etc. are hinted at by Parasara by 
“general rules” or trntR This may well mean other 

ordinary literature devoted to stellar movements. 


*Tf?*R VTvt SRT: I 

rTcT ||t;|| 

srr^ ^ar^Tf 



Chapter 3 ; 

8-9. The positions of the planets for a given time he taken 
as per Drikganita. And with the help of Rasi durations appli- 
cable to the respective places, the ascendant at birth should be 1 
known. Now I tell you about the castes, descriptions and 
dispositions of the planets. 

3PT t?T£T I 

Tgv. trsnwTtUou 

10. NAMES OF PLANETS : The names of the nine 
planets respectively are : the Sun, the .Moon, Mars, Mercury, 
Jupiter, Venus, Saturn, Rahu and Ketu. 

Notes : in the Sanskrit literature on astrology, the planets 
are denoted by different names. Please see. ch. 2 of my English 
translation of Horasara, for additional information in this . 
regard. 


*TT:, **>*<ft WETMI'*" 


11. BENEFICS AMD MALEFICS : Among these, the 
Sun, Saturn, Mars, . decreasing Mood, Rahu and Ketu (the 
ascending and the descending nodes of the Moon) are malefics 
while the rest are benefics. Mercury, however, is a malefic if he 


joins a malefic. 

Notes : That decreasing Moon and increasing Moon are 
.respectively a malefic and a benefic is the view conveyed by the 
sage. Yet some exponents and commentators hold the following 
view : 


When the Moon is ahead of the Sun but within 120°, 
she has medium strength. Between 120° to 240’ she is very 
auspicious, see atfavpTSlff. From 240° to 0° she is bereft of 
, strength. This is Yavanas’ view, vide P. 70 of my English 
Translation of SaravaU. This view is, however, related to the- 
Moon’s strength or otherwise, while waning Moon (Krishna 
Paksha or dark half Moon) is a malefic and waxing Moon 
(Sukla Paksha or bright half Moon) is a benefic. 


Should the Moon be conjunct a benefic or aspected by a 
benefic, she turns a benefic, even if in a waning state. 




28 


_ Brihat Parasara Hora Sastrn 

Parasara 'Zit h,1VC c,ear from 

rarasara, that he becomes a malefic if he joins a malefic If 

V^wamng Moon and Mercury are together, both are benefics. 

?a: «ra> Tritaron;: u^u 

5TT^g^> ijg*rf!jsi<n*rer: i 

STT^: *tafW|Mig§f* |:**; 11**11 

soul of 2 ;,? rif£ rARr GGVERN ^ES : The Sun is the 
soul of all. The Moon ,S the mind. Mars is one’s strength 

hfnifn? 1S v PC£C1 ' g,Ver While Jupiter confers Knowledge and 
happiness. Venus governs semen (potency) while Saturn denotes 

Notes : The degree of bencfic effects of the indications 
mentioned above will be commensurate with the strength of the 
concerned planet If the Sun is strong, one will have a matured 

nenl a fh W “ a w Undant Spifitual progress - Knowledge and 
genera 1 happiness will be well acquired if Jupiter is well-disposed 

Grief will not be there, if Saturn is bereft of strength. 

5 ttsth^ jfar 1 tJTTctrsr: i 

^ garafttil'YII 

'?**** * ft* •' qpKN sTftrf^5Tii ?stl , 

14-15 PLANETARY CABINET : Of royal status are the 
Sun and the Moon while Mars is the army chief. Prince- 
apparent is Mercury. The ministerial planets are Jupiter and 
Venus. Saturn is a servant. Rahu and Ketu form the planetary 


forTeffoft tftTnTtft : \ 

TOKraT||{^|| 

5^RT: W*: ^ ( 

gift mgft fj3meW ! ll^n 

!• Leader of elephants, animals etc. 



Chapter 3 


29 


16-17. PLANETARY COMPLEXIONS : The Sun is 
blood-red. The Moon is tawny. Mars who is not very tall is 
blood-red while Mercury’s hue is akin to that of green grass. 
Tawny, variegated and dark are Jupiter, Venus and Saturn in 
their order. 

frsojfafar: *rf^7T fgT^r ! \ 

18. PLANETARY DEITIES : Fire (Agni), Water 
(Varuna), Subrahmanya (Lord Siva’s son following Ganesa). 
Maha Vishnu, Indra, Sachi Devi (the consort of Lord Indra) 
and Brahma are the presiding deities of the 7 planets in their 
order. 

Notes : The deities or Adhidovatas of the planets as given 
above may be invoked to get the respective planets’ afflictions 
cured. For example, evils indicated by Mercury can be brought 
under control by offering prayers to Sri Vishnu Bhagawan. 

The names of the planetary deities are additionally emp-' 
loyed by Varaha Mihira in selecting a name for the child. The 
consonants and vowels are attributed to the seven planets as 

: The Vowels (12 in number from sr to 3ft) 

: Semi Vowels viz. q-, x, ^ and ? 

: Sibilants viz. ijr, and 
: Aspirate viz. ^ 

: Guttural viz. w, q, ^ and ^ 

: Palatals viz % 3, 3T and 5T 
Mercury : Cerebrals viz. z, 5 , z, % and *r 
Jupiter : Dentals viz. q, «r, q, h and q 
Saturn : Labials viz. 7 , q, vr an d q 

The name of the child can be selected with an initial letter 
as above based on the stronger of the two, viz. natal ascendant 
lord and Navamsa ascendant lord. For example, if Mars is 
stronger, the name can have a guttural in the beginning appropri- 
ate to the presiding deity. In this case, Subrahmanya is the 
deity and the name can be Kumara (jFR) or Guha (gf). 
Similar deductions can be suitably made in other cases. If the 


under. 

< 5 ^ Sun 
^fctuMutMoon 

. Mars 
St-tLVenus 



30 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 

initial letter belongs to a planet without dignity, it will bring bad 
luck. 

Likewise, the Nakshatras too have presiding deities. Any 
' affliction caused to natal star by way of malefic occupation or 
by eclipses at birth or in a future date, can be warded" off’ bv 
suitable propitiation to the deit y concerned. The 27 deities are 
denoted below : 


Aswini 

— 

Aswini Kumara 

Bharani 

— 

Yama 

Krittika 

- — 

Agni 

Rohini 

— 

Brahma 

Mrigasira 

— 

Moon 

Arudra 

— 

Siva 

Punarvasu 

— 

Aditi 

Pushyami 

— 

Jupiter 

Aslesha 

— 

Rabn 

Makha 

' — 

Sun 

Poorva Phalguni 

— 

Aryama 

Uttara Phalguni 

— 

Sun 

Hastha 

— 

Viswa Karma 

Chitta 

— 

Vayu 

Swati 

— 

Indra 

Visakha 

— 

Mitra 

Anuradha 

— 

Indra 

Jyeshta 

— 

Niruti 

Moola 

— 

Varuna 

Poorvashadha 

— 

Viswadeva 

Uttarashadha 

— 

Brahma 

Sravana 

— 

Vishnu 

Dhanishta 

— 

Vasu (wf) 

Sathabishak 

— 

Varuna 

Poorvabhadra 

— 

Ajacharana 

Uttarabhadra 

— 

Ahirbudhanya 

Revati 

— 

Poos ha 


A malefic nlanet in a particular star will yield its evil 
effects in the Pasa related to that star. For example, if Ketu 
is in Krittika in the 9th house, the evil effects due to father will 
be given by Ketu in Sun’s dasa (related to Krittika). Hence 
propitiation of Fire god will counter the possible evil. 



Chapter 3 31 

Alternatively, Lord Ganesa representing Ketu may also be 
pleased suitably. 

?rt: faw psmiittn 

19. SEX OF THE PLANETS : Mercury and Saturn are 
neuters. The Moon and Venus are females while the Sun, Mars 
and Jupiter are males. 

' ^FTf * rTrSTHtfiT 

20. PRIMORDIAL COMPOUNDS : The Pancha Bhootas, 

viz. fire, earth, ether, water and air are respectively governed by 
Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn. 

ftlSOTV $*T*V I I 

tnfa: ! ir?ii 

21. PLANETARY CASTES : Jupiter and Venus are 
Brahmins. The Sun is a royal planet while the Moon and 
Mercury belong to commercial community. Saturn rules the 
Sudras (4th caste). 

?Tiig*-tJTT33ft STO-Wfifotf ! H^ll 

22. Satwik planets are the luminaries and Jupiter, Venus 
and Mercury are Rajasik while Mars and Saturn are Tamasik 
planets. 

Notes : The Satwa, Rajas and Tamasik natures of planets 
will have a say on the disposition of the native. For further 
information, see my notes, vide P. 51 of Saravali. 

* ! i 

23. DESCRIPTION OF THE SUN : The Sun’s eyes are 
honey-coloured. He has a square body. He is of clean habits, 
bilious, intelligent and has limited hair (on his head). 



32 


Brihat Parasara flora Sastra 

Notes : Much additional details could be gathered from 
my notes in ch. 4 of Saravali and ch. 2 of Horasara. The native 
will be influenced in appearance, disposition etc. by the strongest 
planet or the ascendant lord or the Navamsa ascendant lord. 

SfffTrWq;: ’ RWW'ift ff rfd jf g S T 1 1 

24. DESCRIPTION OF THE MOON : The Moon is 
very windy and phlegmatic. She is learned and has a round 
body. She has auspicious looks and sweet speech, is ficklcmind- 
ed and very lustful. 

c* rs 

} 113x11 

25. DESCRIPTION OF MARS : Mars has blood-red 
eyes, is fickle-minded, liberal, bilious, given to anger and has 
thin waist and thin physique. 

tj: I 

fqxRR SRiffR faff! ffT^ffffcUSTffT IR^II 

26. DESCRIPTION OF MERCURY : Mercury is 
endowed with an attractive physique and the capacity to use 
words with many meanings. He is fond of jokes. He has a 
mix of all the three humours. 

g^T¥PJT \ 

qPSfffrfa^ afaTR ?fa*n*fffaOTTff: 

27. DESCRIPTION OF JUPITER : Jupiter has a big 
body, tawny hair and tawny eyes, is phlegmatic, intelligent and 
learned in all sastras. 

gsifaHt *T*T>: gcT: \ 
ffTffnfafffftsfa?n?lTT ffffRSTIT: u^ll 

28. DESCRIPTION OF VENUS : Venus is charming, 
has a splendorous physique, is excellent or great in disposition, 
has charming eyes, is a poet, is phlegmatic and windy and has 
curly hair. 



Chapter 3 


33 


Notes : The word gtrV in the text has many purports like 
happy, virtuous, charming etc. Since Venus is a charming 
planet, the said meaning 'charming’ has been used. However, 
I do not imply that Venus is not a virtuous planet etc. 

ff^T^cT^: wfYfr: fq^f^qfqsrrrqqr: i 

q»T: *m>q*P*> frq ! 

29. DESCRIPTION OF SATURN : Saturn has an emaci- 
ated and long physique, has tawny eyes, is windy in tempera- 
ment, has big teeth, is indolent and lame and has coarse hair. 

srsrord rWh jq-HRtsfq i 

fw) ll^oH 

30. DESCRIPTION OF RAHU AND KETU : Rahu has 
smoky appearance with a blue-mix physique. He resides in 
forests and is horrible. He is windy in temperament and is 
intelligent. Ketu is akin to Rahu. 

srftq 7q=TTrT*rr R33TT ?qq RSTT 

qiRTR Rtrf?q> f^q ! 

31. PRIMARY INGREDIENTS (OR SAPTA DHATUS) : 
Bones, blood, marrow, skin, fat, semen and muscles are respecti- 
vely denoted by the planets from the Sun etc. 

Notes : The Sun and others upto Saturn rule the Sapta 
Dhatus or primary ingredients of the body, as denoted above. 
Their strength or weakness indicate safety or otherwise to the 
Dhatu concerned. For example, if the Sun is afflicted at birth, 
the native is liable to suffer disorders of bones, breakage of 
bones, and the like. The native will incur disorders of blood if 
the Moon is primarily ill-disposed. Similarly other aspects of 
the Dhatus may be considered. 

rirt: Rqfeq: qRTTcT ll^U 

32. PLANETARY ABODES : Temple, watery place, 
place of fire, sport-ground, treasure-house, bed-room and filthy 
ground : these are respectively the abodes for the seven planets 
from the Sun onward. 



34 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 

Notes : The abodes denoted have varied uses, particularly 
in horary astrology. If, for example. Mercury is related to the 
recovery of a lost article, it will be near a sport-ground. If it 
is Venus, it is in the bed-room, and so on and so forth. 

! I 

faforer frita* hi^u 

33. PLANETARY PERIODS : Ayana, Muhurtha, a day 
(consisting day and night), Ritu, month, fortnight and year : 
These art the periods allotted to the planets from the Sun to 
Saturn. 

Notes : The durations cited can be related to the maturity 
of an event, particularly in horary astrology and in Dasa bhukti 
judgements. Should the Sun, for example, be related to the 
fruition of an event, it will be in about six months. 

Ayana is the time taken by the Sun to complete one 
course — northern or southern in the zodiac. This is about six 
months. The Moon indicates Muhurtha, which is equal to 
48 minutes. Ritu is approximately two months or the time 
required for ths Sun’s transit of two Rasis. 

The period indicated by Rahu is 8 months and Ketu 
3 months (vide sloka 46 of this ch.). Also see sloka 18, ch. 4 of 
Saravali which states further use of these indications. 

^ NE$A R Y TASTES : Pungent, smine, bitter, 

mixed, sweet, aciduous an& astringent are' respectively tastes 
lorded by the Sun etc. 

Notes : The strongest planet will give the native a pen- 
chant for the particular taste ruled by it. Alternatively, one may 
like the taste denot ed by the ?.nH inrfl or the planet conjunct the 
2nd lord . The plane t in the 2nd too has a say in the. matter. 
If many are thus related, the strongest one prevails. 

cTCtrR 113 X 11 



Chapter 3 


ff*3T Svft ^q> fe% yt^t fjjsfhnr ! 

^ 3f?R: %TJI «)*?TT *1aSRn: f*TH I 

*rfar<#s> qt=i> qi T qiq ^sqT: ll^vall 
«rqm?n^ki'n1 qwirt sifvR*?^ i 
tn^frarraT sfri*raTT: u^u 


35-38. PLANETARY STRENGTHS : Strong in the east 
are Mercury and Jupiter. The Sun and Mars are so in the south 
while Saturn is the only planet that derives strength in the west. 
The Moon and Venus are endowed with vigour when in the 
north. Again, strong during night are the Moon, Mars and 
Saturn while Mercury is strong during day and night. The rest . 
(i.e. Jupiter, the Sun and Venus) are strong only in day time. 
During the dark half malefics are strong. Benefics acquire 
strength in the bright half of the month. Malefics and benefics 
are respectively strong in Dakshinayana and Uttarayana. The 
lords of the year, month, day and Hora (planetary hour) are 
stronger than the other in ascending order. Again stronger than 
the other in the ascending are : Saturn, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, 
Venus, the Moon and the Sun. 

Notes : Indicated in the first instance are directional 
strengths or digbala. The following are the directions related to 
a horoscope. 

East : ascendant £4 

North : 4lh house or the Nadir 5* & 

West : 7th house or the descendant'^’ 

South : 10th house or the meridian 

These are to be reckoned only from the ascendant and not 
from the Moon. 


Jupiter and Mercury have Digbala in the ascendant. The 
Sun and Mars acquire this strength in the 10th house; Saturn does 
so in the 7th. The 4th gives directional strength to the Moon 
and Venus. The planet gets no Digbala if it is. in the opposite 
sign with reference to its Digbala house. For example, Saturn 
has no Digbala if he rises. 


The use of Digbala is : T jte otanet with Digbala wi ll 
direct the native fruitfully in its Dasa periods to the respective 


36 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


direction lord ed by it, If Jupiter is in tne ascendant, the periods 
of Jupiter will give success in north-east, the direction ruled by 
it. The directions of the planets may be understood as under : 


The Sun 

— east 

Saturn 

■=— west 

Venus 

— south-east 

The Moon 

— north-west 

Mars 

— south 

Mercury 

— north 

Jupiter 

— ■ north-east 

Rahu 

— south-west 


Conversely, if one undertakes living in or journeyin g to 
th e direction denoted bv a planet without directional streng th, 
th ere will be obstructions and losse s. 

To understand other strengths, the reader is referred to 
Saravall, Part I, my English translation and notes thereof in 
this context. 

W*TOf?l CTWCT \ 

TO: U Ull 

^3*?* q* wm: mj fe* ! uvoii 

39-40, RELATED TO TREES : The Sun rules strong 
trees (i.e. trees with stout trunks). Saturn useless trees, the Moon 
milky trees (like rubber yielding plants). Mars bitter ones (like 
lemon plants), Venus floral plants, Jupiter fruitful ones and 
Mercury fruitless ones. 

Note : Much information can be seen in Brihat Jataka 
and Sarcvali in regard to birth of trees. 


11*? U 

ffar 1%T3ftrT*T ! infill 


Chapter 3 

$rh ■rhn^T fasr ! sfttf cT«fa ^ \ 
^qtwrfar ^Tf^Tf^T wWftefaar] iiv^n 
fawr ?TOTRfft?f 5 T w<ffW ysrtu * \ 

*** f*nr *r%fasr ! TOT*?* !iqq ^iiyvm 


wll! . 1i^ 4 - OTHER MATTERS : Rahu rules the outcaste 
while Ketu governs mixed caste. Saturn and the nodes indicate 
anthills. Rahu denotes multi-coloured clothes and Ketu raes 

Lead and blue gem belong to Rahu and Ketu. Jupiter Venus' 

the Sun, the Moon, Mercury, Mars and Saturn in their order 
govern saffron, silken, red silken, white silken, black silken, red 
and multi-coloured robes, 

. Not ®f : “ Cha ^a!a” is translated as outcaste, though it 
additionally means one cruel in deeds (like a butcher for 
instance). It further means a person illegally born to a Sudra 
( ih caste in Hindu tradition of ancient days) father and 

Brahmana mother. Ketu denotes a person born through an 
intercaste marriage. . 6 

robes S ° me aUth0rUieS hoId the lowing view about planetary 


The Sun-coarse, the Moon-new, Mars-burnt, Mercury 
water soaked, Jupiter— of recent origin but not new. Venus- 
durable, Saturn— torn, Rahu— multi-coloured and Ketu— much 
torn. 


***** srqf f^RT ?T«n fa* 

farfatf fa* ! \ 

aroit %'Ttof'rra fan ! uv V i 


45-46. PLANETARY SEASONS : Vasanta Greesh™ 
Varsha Sarad, Hemanta and Sisira are the six Rims’ respectively 
Mars, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter and Saturn 

Rahu and Ketu denote 8 months and 3 months respectively. 

„ t N °‘ es Si ° ce the Sun is the cause of the seasons, he is 

ruler o7r^ h a T dany SeaSOn ' However > the Sun is a co- 
ruler of Greeshma Ritu apart from Mars. 



Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


38 

The durations of Ritus or seasons are as follows : 

Vasanta — 20th March to 19th May 

Greeshma — 20tb May to 19th July 

Varsha — 20th July to 19th September 

Sarat — 20th September to 19th November 

Hemanta — 20th November to 19th January 

Sisira — 20th January to 19th March 

But in the matter of lost horoscopy, a different nomen- 
clature is followed by many to ascertain natal Sun’s placement 
by Ritu. For details, please see page 12 of my English render- 
ing of Nashta Jataka. 

3FTTT sfteriiPST: 

47. DHATU, MOOLA AND JEEVA DIVISIONS : Dhatu 
planets are Rahu, Mars, Saturn and the Moon while the Sun and 
Venus are Moola planets. Mercury, Jupiter and Ketu rule Jeevas. 

Notes : The divisions of Dhatu (metals), Moola (roots, 
vegetables etc.) and Jeeva (living beings) have a great use in 
horary astrology, particularly to know the unexpressed query. If, 
for example, Rahu is in the ascendant or is a significant planet in 
a horary chart, then the query relates to a metal. For a fuller 
appreciation, see Bhuvana Deepaka of Padma Prabhu Soori. 

RgRRH SSTfa feURrTR ! trtfqll 

48. SATURN : Out of all the planets Saturn is the eldest 
(i.e. with the highest age). He bestows maximum number of 
years in Naisargika Dasa. 

ftat I 

R1RT ^TTT tv Wlfapnfoein RfacTT I 

u*ou 

49-50. EXALTATION AND DEBILITATION : For the 
seven planets from the Sun on, the signs of exaltation are respec- 
tively Aries, Taurus, Capricorn, Virgo, Cancer, Pisces and Libra. 



Chapter 3 


39 

The deepest exaltation degrees are respectively 10,3, 28, 15, 5, 
27 and 20 in those signs. And in the seventh sign from the said 
exaltation sign each planet has its own debilitation. The same 
degrees of deep exaltation apply to deep fall. 

Notes : Each planet assumes significance in a certain sign 
In the opposite sign therefrom, it is debilitated. Even in the 
exaltation sign or the debilitation sign, it is very highly favourable 
or highly detrimental as the case may be, in a certain degree. 
For example, the Sun is exalted in Aries and is the most 
powerful on the 10th degree therein. In Libra he gets debilitat- 
ed and if be in 10th degree of Libra, he is worst affected. 
Similarly suitable deductions be made for other planets. 

As for the exaltations and debilitation of the nodes, there 
are different views. Please see page 20 of my English translation 
of Horasara for necessary information. 




?TcT: \ 

R»THHJ(YU 


51-54. ADDITIONAL DIGNITIES : In Leo the first 
20 degrees are the Sun’s Moolatrikona while the rest is his own 
house. After the first 3 degrees o f exaltation portion in 
Taurus, for the Moon the rest is her hTooIatrikona” Mars~ has 
the first 12 degrees in Aries as Moolatrikona with the rest there- 
in becoming simply his own house. For Mercury, in Virgo the 
first 1 5 degrees arc exaltation zone, the next 5 degrees Moolatri- 
kona and the last 10 degrees arc own house. The first one third 
of Sagittarius is the Moolatrikona of Jupiter while, the remain- 
ing part thereof is his own house. Venus divides Libra into two 
halves keeping the first as Moolatrikona and the second as own 
house. Saturn’s arrangements arc same in Aquarius as the Sun 
has in Leo. 



40 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


gif?) ftq*N3T^ 11X9111 

55. NATURAL RELATIONSHIPS : Note the signs which 
are the 4th, 2nd, 12th, 5th, 9th and the 8th from the Moolatri- 
kona of a planet. The planets ruling such signs are its friends, 
apart from the lord of its exaltation sign. Lords other than these 
are its enemies. If a'planct becomes its friend as well as its enemy 
(on account of the said two computations) then it is neutral or 
equal. 

Notes : A simple formula is given in this sloka to compute 
planetary relationships. From the Moolatrikona sign of a planet, 
the 2nd, 4th, 5th, 8th, 9th and 12th lords are its friends. The 
rest viz. 3rd, 6th, 7th, 10th and 1 1th lords from Moolatrikona 
are its enemies. The exaltation sign’s lord is always friendly 
even if he owns the 3rd, 6th, 7th, 10th or the 11th from Moola- 
trikona. If, however, friendship and enmity occur simultaneo- 
usly none prevails but equality or neutrality. 

Take for example the case of Mars. The Moolatrikona 
for him is Aries. The 1 1th lord from there is Saturn and hence 
he is inimical. But he is as well a friend, as he is the lord of 
exaltation sign of Mars. Since wc get enmity on one count and 
friendship on the other, Saturn becomes equal to Mars. Take 
again the relationship of Venus. He owns the 2nd and 7th from 
the Moolatrikona of Mars, thus becoming friend and enemy 
respectively. Hence he is neutral to Mars. 


See table below for an easy grasp of relationship : 


Planet 

Friends 

Enemies 

Equals 

Sun 

Moon, Mars, Jupiter 

Venus, Sat 

Mercury 

Moon 

Sun, Mercury 

— 

Mars, Jup, 
Venus, Saturn 

Mars 

Sun, Moon, Jupiter 

Mercury 

Venus, Saturn 

Mercury Sun, Venus 

Moon 

Mars,J upiter 
Saturn 

Jupiter 

Sun, Moon, Mars, 

Mercury, Venus 

Saturn 

Venus 

Mercury, Saturn 

Moon, Sun 

Mars, Jupiter 

Saturn 

Mercury, Venus 

Sun, Moon, Mars Jupiter 



41 


Chapter 3 

The Moon does not consider anyone as her enemy as per 
the following statement of Parasara (Benares edition by 
Chaukamba "TOST srrfY mi: iWTOTOT: meanning 

meaning further that the Sun and Mercury are Moon’s 
friends while others are her neutrals. Saravali also has an 
identical view. 

As for Rahu and Ketu, the following may be of additional 
interest. 

Rahu : The Sun, Moon and Mars are his enemies. 
Jupiter, Venus and Saturn are his friends. Mercury is his 
neutral. 

Ketu : The luminaries are his enemies. Mars, Venus and 
Saturn are his friends, while Mercury and Jupiter are his 
i neutrals. 

56. TEMPORARY ( IIO RO SCO PIC) RELATIONSHIPS: 
The planet posited in the 10th, 4th, 11th, 3rd, 2nd or the 12th 
from another becomes mutual friend. There is enmity otherwise, 
(This applies to a given horoscope). 

Notes : The hints given in sloka 55 are to understand the 
constant relationship among planets. In the present sloka we 
are advised of planets having a certain relationship based on 
their positions, i.e. for given moment. If two are mutually in 4th 
and 10th, or in 3rd and 11th or in 2nd and 12th, they become 
temporarily cordial to each other. Should they be otherwise, 
there prevails mutual temporary enmity. This rule is very simple 
and needs no explanation. 

fW 1150911 

ir? gftrTiiKcii 

57-58. COMPOUND RELATIONSHIP : Should two 
planets be naturally and temporarily friendly, they become 
extremely friendly. Friendship on one count and neutrality on 
another count make them friendly. Enmity on one count 



42 

Brihat Parasara If ora Sastra 

combined with affinity on the other turns into equality. 
Enmity and neutralship cause only enmity. Should there be 
enmity ,n both manners, extreme enmity is obtained. The 

TcZ C °" Sid “ thCK “ d d “ kre effect 

Notes ; The final relationship, as a result of natural and 
~ ^positions is called 5-fold relationship, or 
tfTd. The same is shown below in an easy form : 

Speculum of Compound Relationships 


One 

relationship 


Another 

relationship 

Net relationship 

Friendship 

+ 

Friendship 

Extreme inendship \ 

Neutrality 

+ 

Friendship 

Friendship 

Enmity 

+ 

Enmity 

Extreme enmity 

Neutrality 

' 4- 

Enmity 

Enmity 

Enmity 

+ 

Friendship 

Neutral 


It is understood that if there is friendship with enmity 
then also neutrality will prevail. 

I 

Rtfs* 5 

^ 16 ? JlhrT STR I 

5RTC RcEf^T fegspjT: 

59-60. RATIO OF EFFECTS : A planet in exaltation gives 
fully good effects while in Moolatrikona it is bereft of its auspi- 
c,ou S effects by one four,h. II is half beneficial in its own hoi 
Its beneficence ,s in one fourth in a friendly sign. In an equal’s 
sign one eighth of auspicious disposition is useful. The good 

are ml in deb,lltation or enemy’s camp. Inauspidous 
effects are quite reverse with reference to what is stated. 

rfc; , 

^ TO *T5T«V: tt^n 



43 


Chapter 3 

EPfft tpiSrRT: stag: I 

<s * 

sqcftalfl: qfrWtsfiretaEtj n^^u 
gtqg: I 

fa^T^fe^TfllS^^N: %5^S5Tff: ll^ll 

tTqj^lfsftiJH: %g: SFSTTO^ l 

3ispn?rq*n^ qrn gtasgi: uv*n 

61-64. NON-LUMINOUS UP AG RAH AS (SUB- 

PLANETS) : Add 4 signs 13 degrees and 20 minutes of arc 
to the Sun’s longitude at a given moment to get the exact 
position of the all-inauspicious Dhooma. Reduce Dhooma from 
12 signs to arrive at Vyatipata. Vyatipata is also inauspicious. 
Add six signs to Vyatipata to know the position of Parivesha. 
He is extremely inauspicious. Deduct Parivesha from 12 signs 
to arrive at the position of Chapa (Indra Dhanus) who is ‘ 
also inauspicious. Add 16 degrees 40 minutes to Chapa which 
will give Ketu (Upaketu) who is a malefic. By adding a sign to 
Upaketu, you get the original longitude of the Sun. These are 
planets devoid of splendour which are malefics by nature and 
cause affliction. 

Notes : The Aprakasa G rah as or upagrahas are to be 
calculated as under based on the above four verses : 


1. Sun 

+ 

1 33 u 20' 

= Dhooma 

2. Dhooma 

+ 

53°20' 

= Vyatipata 

3. Vyatipata 

+ 

180° 

= Parivesha 

4 . Parivesha 

— 

53°20' 

— Indra Cahpa 

(Indra Dhanus) 

5. Chapa 

+ 

1 6°40' 

— Upaketu (Sikhi) 

Upaketu, if 

increased by 30 degrees, will reach the Sun’s 


exact .position at a given moment. 

Let us assume that the Sun is in Taurus 10 degrees and 


Calculate the 5 Upagrahas, as under : 

Sun (40 o )+l33 o 20‘ = Dhooma = 173°20' 

Dhooma (173°20')+ 53"20' = Vyatipata - 226°40' 

Vyatipata (226 <, 40 , )+180" — Parivesha ~ ^^MO') 

(46 n 40 r ) — 53°20' = Chapa = 3$3"20' 

(353°20')+ 16°40' = Upaketu = 10° 

(10°) + 30° = Sun - 40° 


Parivesha 

Chapa 

Upaketu 



44 

Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 
It may be seen that by adding 30° to Uoaket.. ♦»,. t * 

«£.$<, snraiifBBURi? i 

»fir ffmfoitorot frofe „„„ 

EFFECTS OF SUB-PLANETS • if - 

" bi ”' ,b ° 

r,rtr^ - 

., Notes : If the Sun is afflicted by one of these- IT™ v 

life win con* ,o pa s . The Mo™ toX‘ grip of*"' If "T 
W'll cause menial afflictions. Though L toen^, 
conjunction’ of an Upagraha with the Ln u denotes 

£sc:."triS 

ZTl^T™ ■"*"* 

Wraa;5*>ft I 

TTfsrc^^T wrami H ^ u 

«■*> , 
srM T^i: „^ u 

'fTRm> 3egTrr?e<r> g**[> inririev: | 

liNW, IW «WW>VW: to: II hi, 

66-69< CALCULATIONS OFOrn r/fj p Tr . ^ 

enua! parts. Thc'ctght t^SZSJTV?. '“° ^ 

S wlTt’ 0 WhlT" Pla "" S — ^omThe 
» UI be -" . e gia 



Chapter 3 


45 


tion into eight equal parts and distribute these commencing 
from the 5th weeklord. Here again the eighth portion is lor d- 
le ss while Saturn’s portion is Gulika . T he Sun’s portion is 
Kala (^rrer), Mars’ porti on is Mrityu,. Jupi ter’s portion is Yama - 
gRantaka and Mercury's portion is Ardha Prahara. These 
(cTurations) differently apply to different places (commensurate 
with variable day and night durations). 

Notes : Ardha Prahara, Yamaghantaka, Mrityu, Kala and 
Gulika are the 5 Kala Velas, suggested by the sage. The day 
duration according to latitude is divided into eight equal parts* 
The eighth portion is unlorded. The first portion is allotted to 
the week day lord. Other portions follow in the order of week 
day lords. We consider 5 planetar y portions ignoring tliat of 
the Moon and Venus. The portions of the \Sun7Mars, Mercury, 
J upiter and Saturn are respectively called Kala, Mrityu, Ard ha- 
prahara, Yamaghantaka and Gulika. 

In the case of night, the durations or l/8th parts are allotted 
in a different order. The first portion goes to the planet ruling 
the 5th weekday lord counted from the day in question. The 
others follow in the usual order. Here again, the 8th part is 
lordless. The planetary portions from Kala to Gulika are the 
same in nomenclature, in the night also. 

Guliks and Mandi are one and the same and not different. 
This is borne by the statement of Parasara (vide Brihat Parasara 
Hora Sastra, ch. 4, sloka 15, Benares Hindi edition of Chauk- 
hambha Sanskrita Sansthana), viz. “Namantaram tu tasyaiva 
Mandi rityabhidhecyafe”. This quarter is not available in our 
version. In this connection, please refer to Prasoa Marga and 
Jataka Parijatha. 


KeeranUru Nataraja of Jatakalankarain (Tamil version) 
gives signs of dignities for these Upagrahas and Gulika etc. 
The same is as under : 



Upagraha Exaltation Dehilitation Swakshetra 
& Gulika etc. (own sign) 


Dhooma Leo Aquarius Capricorn 

Yyatipata Scorpio Taurus Gemini 

Parivesha Gemini Sagittarius Sagittarius (7) 


46 


Brihat Parasara if ora Sastra 


Indrachapa Sagittarius Gemini 

Upakctu Aquarius Leo 

Gulika * 

Yamaghatitaka ..." 

Ardhaprahara 


Cancer 
Cancer 
Aquarius - 
* Sagittarius ■ 
Gemini 


I- 


Kala 

Mrityu 


Capricorn 

Scorpio 


From the Sun to Saturn, no one is exalted in the above- 
mentioned exaltation signs, nor debilitated in the above 
mentioned debilitation signs. 

y Out of the 5 Kalavelas, viz. Gulika etc. four except Kala 
I (related to the Sun) have own sign system in the respective signs 
I ruled by their fathers. Gulika, son of Saturn, has Aquarius as 
own house. Jupiter’s son, Yamaghantaka, has it in Sagittarius. 
I Ardhaprahara, Mercury’s son, is in own sign if in Gemini. 
Mrityu, son of Mars has Scorpio as own house. It is not known 
why Kala, a son of the Sun shifted to Capricorn, a sign of his 
brother (Saturn) leaving his father's Leo. Obviously, Saturn 
has given his Moolalrikona to his son Gulika while he gave 
Capricorn (a secondary sign) to his ‘brother’ Kala. 


70. GULIKA'S POSITION : The degree ascending at tne 
time of start of Gulika’s portion (as above) will be the longitude 
of Gulika at a given place. Based on this longitude only, Gnlika’s 
effects for a particular nativity be estimated. 

Notes : The day duration or night duration as the case 
may be for calculation the five Kalavelas, viz. Gulika etc. be 
considered for the latitude of birth. Some authorities suggest 
to use the end of the period for ascertaining longitudes of these. 
Sage Parasara’s view is correct in this respect, as exemplified in 
the notes for slokas "25-30, ch. 4 infra. “Mandi” and “Gulika” 
are interchanged in our own text to mean one and the same. 


vfaqTl umiH \ 
sun? fj? 


Chapter 3 


47 


^TT*T%*me«Ts^ *n?ft ^ g^n\9^u 

**RJ STFl'RT^ RevTR 5TR fe*ftvTO ! 1 
hihr %*f^w ^ td^ sn’JTRR a<n n^^n 

*T*T fRSTR^rra^R^RTTSrq ^ l 

\3 

?rrt ern rIr m'xw 

71-74. CALCULATION OF PRANAPADA : Convert the 
given time into vighatikas and divide the same by 15. The 
resultant Rasi, degrees etc. be added to the Sun if he is in a 
movable sign which will yield Paranapada. If the Sun is in a 
fixed sign, add 240 degrees additionally and if in dual sign add 
120 degrees in furtherance to get Pranapada. The birth will be 
auspicious if Pranapada falls in the 2nd, 5th, 9th, 4th, 10th or 
11th from the natal ascendant. In other houses, Pranapada 
indicates an inauspicious birth. 

Notes : The calculation of Pranapada Lagna is exemplified 
below, as per the above slokas : 

Assume birth is at 16gh 25vi. When this is converted into 
vighatikas, we get 985. Divided by 15, this yields 65.66. Rasi 
which means 65 signs and 20 degrees. Expunging the multiples 
of 12, we have 5s 20° or 170°. 

The next step is to add this straightaway to the Sun’s 
longitude if he is in a movable sign. Suppose the Sun is in 
Aries 15 degrees, we get 170+15=185 or Libra 5 degrees as 
Pranapada ascendant. 

In the same example if the Sun is in a fixed sign, say Taurus 
15 degrees, we have to add another 240 degrees. So to say, 45 
(the Sun)+240 + 170=455 or 95 degrees (Cancer 5 degrees) as 
Pranapada asceadant. 


Again, alternatively if the Sun is in a dual sign, say Gemini 
15°, we have to add only 120 degrees in place of 240 degrees. 
That is 75 (Sun’s longitude) + 120+ 170=365=5° Aries is Prana- 


pada Lagna. 


Dear Reader 

We are glad you are reading 
this Unique Book. Some other 
remaining chapters, which 
contain very Important 
material, are given in its 
Ilnd Part. Please write 


3*^ Trfsr^fqTSJfftr: IIVII 

Chapter 4 

Zodiacal signs Described 

3T^tTT^F7 ^tnsqffjTCTl^ I 

mi fa5rH»TT*«T sTra^'r^r ^ni?n 

feta fi ^TTT^if^^mTT: ii^t) 

1-2. IMPORTANCE OF IiORA : The word Hora ( ? >a) 
is derived from Ahoratra (a^hT^) after dropping the first and 
last syllables. Thus Hora (ascendants) remains in between 
Ahoratra (i.e, day and night) and after knowing Hora, the good 
and bad effects of a native be known. Sri Vishnu, the Invisible, 
is Time personified. His limbs are the 12 Rasis commencing 
from Aries. 

** f«m: trift^r: i 

tafcTrT: 

3. NAMES OF SIGNS : The 12 signs of the zodiac in 
order are : Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Leo, Virgo, Libra, 
Scorpio, Sagittarius, Capricorn, Aquarius and Pisces. 

cTRT STjjJ feta^fff3*cT!T: ( 

angtpt £ ?htt uyu 

cT*TT ifalcT ta: yfttatT: \ 

4-4J. LIMBS OF KALAPVRUSHA : The time personified 
has his limbs as under with reference to the 12 signs respect- 
ively : Head, face, arms, heart, stomach, hip, space below navel, 
privities, thighs, knees, ankles and feet. 

Notes : The limbs of Kalapurusha or Time Personified are 
divided treating Aries as ascendant. For an individual, the 
ascending sign will denote head, 2nd sign face and so on and so 
forth. See the diagram given below in the case of a Scqrpio 
native, for an easy grasp. 



Chapter 4 


49 


(5) 

(6) 

(7) 

(8) 

Stomach 

Hip 

Below 

navel 

Privities 

(4) 



(9) 

Heart 



Thighs 

(3) 



(10) 

Anns 



Knees 

(2) 

Ascdt 

(12) 

00 

Face 

head 

Feet 

Ankles 


The use of the above is to know of the planetary influences 
on the concerned limb. In the above case, if Rahu is in Scorpio 
ascendant, there will be a scar etc. on the head. Or when his 
Dasa starts, if he is afflicted at birth, he will cause danger to 
head. The limbs related to matefics will suffer defects and 
adversities while the ones related to benefics will be beautiful, 
strong and immune to danger. These are sthoola (broad) 
scheme. For Sookshma (minute) scheme of limbs, the 36 deca- 
nates are resorted to. 

»»xu 

5-5 J. CLASSIFICATION OF SIGNS : Movable, Fixed 
and Dual are the names given to the 12 signs in order. These 
are again known as malefic and benefic, successively. Similarly 
these are male and female. Aries, Leo and Sagittarius are 
bilious. Taurus, Virgo and Capricorn are windy. Gemini, 
Libra and Aquarius are mixed while the rest are phlegmatic. 

Notes : The 12 signs are divided into movable, fixed and 
dual. Movable are Aries, Cancer, Libra and Capricorn. The 
signs Taurus, Leo, Scorpio and Aquarius are fixed or immovable. 
Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius and Pisces are dual or common. 




50 


Brikat Parasara Horn Sastra 

Aries, Gemini, Leo, Libra, Sagittarius and Aquarius are 
m ale signs- These are also known as malefic or cruel si gns. 
Taurus/'Cancer, Virgo, Scorpio, Capricorn and Pisces are female 
signs. These are beneficial or soft signs. " 

Aries and its trines are bilious. Taurus and its trines are 
windy. Gemini and its trines have a mix of all the three temper- 
aments, viz. bile, wind and phlegm. Cancer and its trines are 
phlegmatic. 

The temperaments of the signs have a specific use in 
medical astrology. If, for example, a phlegmatic sign happens 
to be the 6th house and is occupied by an afflicted planet with 
phlegmatic temperament, tuberculosis, severe cough and other 
pulmonary disorders will crop up. If a windy sign is afflicted 
by a windy planet, rheumatism, colics, paralysis etc. will trouble 
the native. When a bilious planet affectr a bilious sign, one will 
be liable to premature grey hair, yellowish body, secretion of 
bile, jaundice etc. If a mixed sign gets affected by Mercury, the 
native will be predisposed to suffer many imbalances. The 
planets have been described as windy, phlegmatic and bilious 
as could be 6een in ch. 3 supra. 

tjcstoft w ysirftw h^ii 

6-7. ARIES DESCRIBED : The sign Aries is blood-red in 
complexion, it has a prominent (big) physique. It is a quadr- 
uped sign and strong during night. It denotes courage. It 
resides in the east and is related to kings. It wanders in hills 
and predominates in Rajoguna is the second of the three 
constituent qualities and » the cause of great activity in living 
beings). It rises with its back (a Prishtodaya sign) and is fiery. 
Its ruler is Mars. 

vmrt ugh 

8. TAURUS DESCRIBED : Its complexion is white, and 
is lorded by Venus, It is long and is a quadruped sign. It has 
strength in night and resides in the south. It represents villages 
and businessmen. An earthy sign, Taurus rises with its back. 



Chapter 4 


Si 


SPR * 1 

srfmT iwfymr ifassft qFnr^ftsfjffft utn 

mmY" ^rryqff «pifti'?:i 

9- 9 J. GEMINI DESCRIBED : The sign Gemini rises with 
its head and represents a male and a female holding a mace and 
lute. It lives in the west and is an airy sign. It is a biped sign 
as well and is strong in nights. It lives in villages and is windy 
in temperament. It has an even body with greengrass hue. Its 
ruler is Mercury. 

**t*t*V * wnp^iV faftr wW*r^n$oii 

I 

WFTTfinf ilfoUftNfti: f»JT: [\\\\\ 

10- 11. CANCER DESCRIBED : The sign Cancer is pale- 
red. It resorts to forests and represents Brahmins. It is strong 
in nights. It has many feet (i.e. it is a centipede sign) and has a 
bulky body. It is Satwic in disposition (seen in gods) and is a 
watery sign. It rises with its back and is ruled by the Moon. 

fai*: ^rrfa'T; Hrtft ^ ' 

«jRnT*:qr>J: wqiqqin lit 311 

12. LEO DESCRIBED : Leo is ruled by the Sun and is 
Satwic. It is a quadruped sign and a royal sign. It resorts to 
forests and rises with its head. It has a large, white body. It 
resides in the east and is day-strong. 

tb'rUHWr TlftrlTWMlfaaT \ 
wWfem * TTKirtTrr fgqrsn«?Trn * m 111311 
ft qrerejPTT \ 

jnrct emm m*n 

13-14. VIRGO DESCRIBED : This sign is a hill-resorter, 
and is strong in day-time. It rises with its head and has a 
medium build. It is a biped sign and resides in the south. It 
has grains and fire in its hands. It belongs to business commu- 
nity and is variegated. It relates to hurricanes “ 



52 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 

a Virgin and is Tamasa (a disposition of demons). Its ruler is 
Mercury. 

part I 

iffVTt srnft JJlt »Teq?igf5qT^ II? *11 

ywsfateq ^gTi^yr^ft f^ft i 

fe w l t tfre fWft II 



15-16$. LIBRA AND SCORPIO DESCRIBED : Libra is 
a Seershodaya sign rising with its head and is strong in day time. 
It is black in complexion and is predominant with Rajoguna. 
It relates to the western direction and resorts to land. It is 
destructive or mischievous {qxf^). It represents Sudras or the 
4th Varna and has a medium build and is a biped sign. Its 
lord is Venus. Scorpio has a slender physique and is a centipede 
sign. It denotes Brahmins and resides in holes. Its direction 
U north and is strong in day time. It is reddish-brown and 
resorts to water and land. It has a hairy physique and is very 
sharp (or passionate). Mars is its ruler. 

ysstaft m U?VS>U 

f<PTWt TITO: wfoft fa’TW, I 

*n*nr?lr *ig*n*: SRnuft vgrcutcu 

17-18$. SAGITTARIUS DESCRIBED : The sign Sagitt- 
arius rises with its head and is . lorded by Jupiter. It is a 
Satwic sign and is tawny in hue. It has strength in night and 
is fiery. A royal sign, Sagittarius is biped in first half. Its 
second half is quadruped. It has an even build and adores 
an arch. It resides in the east, resorts to land and is splend- 
orous. 

♦^ i fi i MW E fl q \\\v\ 

ijGStapft I 

l^oU 

19-20, CAPRICORN DESCRIBED : Capricorn is lorded 
by Satun^and has predominance of Tamoguna (a disposition 



53 


Chapter 4 

Been in demons). It is an earthy sign and represents the 
southern direction. It is strong in nights, and rises with back. 
It has a large body. Its complexion is variegated and it resorts 1 
to both forests and lands. Its first half is quadruped and second 
half footless moving in water. 

Wf; iNttit 

STff: q fwiUaw WmV ¥*[?T: 1 

21- 2IJ. AQUARIUS DESCRIBED: The sign Aquarius 
represents a man holdig a pot. Its complexion is deep-borwn. 
It has a medium build and a biped sign. It is very strong in 

/day time: It resorts to deep water and is airy. It rises with 

its head and is Tamasic. It rules Sudras, the 4th Varna and 
the west. Its lord is Saturn, the Sun’s offspring. 

sntf frst: t 

amt iraAg} ^ grirftvft ii^in 

*m>rt *if*m g>n: i 

* iiwi 

22- 24. PISCES DESCRIBED : Pisces resembles a pair of 
fish, one tailed with the head of the other. This sign is night- 
strong. It is a watery sign and is predominant with Satwa guna. 
It denotes resoluteness and is a water-resorter. It is footless 
and has a medium build. It rules the north and rises with both 
head and back. It is ruled by Jupiter. This is how the 12 Rasis 
each of 30 degree extent are described to evaluate gross and 
specific effects. 

srm: ! 

eswpnfw i firatw » 

TOUnmi f*ro* 

qftsR Wfr N-4WW I 

?T R TWFm'tiT iftwf TTWTft ii^ii 


54 


Brihat Parasara tiora Sastro 


<ronft mi nwra: vnt fsrww i 

u^cii 

hf<n^ Hm^Kwef *ihi^ ^^iSH * 

'niww fastan: u^tu 
wrwjii fq^f^rr R*ui m\ i 
W *ron mi Hw*Hm n3»« 

25-30. NISHEKA LAGNA : O excellent or tbe sages, 
explained now b a step to arrive at the Nisbeka Lagna when the 
natal ascendant b known. Note the angular distance between 
Saturn and Mandf ( Gnllha). Add thb to the difference between 
the ascendant Lagna bhava (Madhya or cusp) and the 9th Mtava 
(cusp). The resultant product in Rasis, degrees etc. will represent 
the months, days etc. that elapsed between Nisbeka and birth. 
At birth If the ascendant lord b in the invisible half (i.e. from 
ascendents! cup to descendental cusp) add the degrees etc. the 
Moon moved In the particular Rasi occupied by her to the above- 
mentioned product. Then the ascendant at Nisbeka can be worked 
ont and the good and bad experienced by the native in the womb 
can be guessed. One can also guess, with the help of Nisbeka 
Lagna, effects like longevity, death etc. of the parents. 

Notes : If birth time is accurately noted, we can trace 
out the correct time and date of coitus that caused the concept- 
ion in question. Adhana Lagna or Nisbeka Lagna means the 
ascendant that prevailed at tbe time of coitus and not the one at 
conception. The Sanskrit word ‘Adhana’ or ‘Nisbeka’ means a 
sexual cohabitation. (Some texts call the first union between a 
couple as ‘Adhaana’ and the later ones in the usual course as 
*Nisheka\) 

As per our present verses, we consider the birth chart of a 
male child bora on Friday, the 17th February 1984 at 22h 35m 
1ST at New Delhi. The birth time has been correctly noted 
with a special request to the attending doctor. The time of 
coitus was astrologically chosen and promptly noted down in 
the records. And hence this case will serve as a foolpro of 
example. The natus as per Lahiri Ayanamsa (i.e. 23° 37' 51") 
is given below : 



Chapter 4 


53 



The longitudes of required planets and important cusps 
are as given below : 

Ascendant Cusp j 182° 23' 06" 9th cusp : 64° 03' 13" 

10th cusp or M.C. 3 94° 36' 06'' Gulika : 208° 32' 06" 

Saturn : 202° 45 ’ 38" Moon : 734° 17' 00'' 

Sidereal Time at birth : 8h Im 21 s 
The longitude of Gulika is cast for the beginning of 
Saturn’s Muhurta, as suggested by the sage in ch. 3 supra. 

With the above data, we should be able to trace back the 
Adhana date and time. The formula is : 

Adhana Lagna=Date of birth and time minus “x” 
where "X” is obtained thus= A+B + C 

Now A, B and C are explained. “A” is the angular dist- 
ance between Saturn and Gulika at birth. * B” is the distance 
between the cusp of the ascendant and that of the 9th house 
counted in a direct order (i.e. via 4th and 7th cusps). “C” is 
required if the ascendant lord is in the invisible half (i.e. ascen- 
dant and descendant intersected by the nadir). Otherwise, “C" 
is not required. In the example case, these are : 




56 


BrtfuU Parasara flora SastrO 


A == 5° 46' 28" 

B = 241° 40' 07" 

C = 14° IT 00" 


X =261° 43' 35" _ 261d 43gh 35 vigh. 


It wilt be noticed that 1 degree is treated as one day in the 
above computation. That is, these are Savanamana (360 days 
per year). To apply this to Gregorian Calendar (NS), we must 
reduce this duration into Sauramana. Such tables are given in 
my English translation of Hoiasara. From there we take the 
correction figures so that we obtain an equal Sauramana durat- 
ion. Those corrections are meant to know the difference between 
Savanamana and Sauramana. When we reduce the correction 
factor from Savanamana to obtain Sauramana, the figure so 
obtained shall have to be increased by the correction factors 
excessively considered in the first mentioned correction factors. 
A reader even with average intelligence will appreciate this 
exercise. From the tables referred we obtain correction factors 
Jor 26td 43gh 35vigh as under : 


v 

d 

gh 

vigh 

Lip 

Vilipta 

200 days : 

2 

55 

16 

56 

40 

60 days : 

0 

52 

35 

05 

00 

1 day : 

0 

00 

52 

35 

05 

43.58 gh : 

0 

00 

38 

00 

00 

Correction : 

3 

49 

22 

36 

45 


We can take the above figure to be 3d 49gh 23 vigh as a 
round figure for convenience sake. When this correction factor 
is deducted from 261d 43gh 35vigh, we get 257d 54gh 12 vigh. 
This needs a slight increase due to excessive correction contained 
by the above correction factor, 3d 49gh 23vigh. From the same 
table, we get a factor of 3gh 22 vigh which should be added to 
257d 54gh 12vigh. Thus we get 257d 57gh 34vigh. That is, the 
Adhana ought to have been so many days behind the birth date 
while the birth is on 17th Feb 1984 at 22-35 hrs. The time of 



57 


Chaptet 4 

Adhana as noted is : 4th June 1983 at 10.40 PM, 1ST, at New 
Delhi. (The last menses period, or LMP date, as recorded is 
31-5-1983.) The duration between the two is shown below 
month by month. 


Month 


Days 

Hrs 

Min 

June 1983 


26 

01 

20 

July 1983 


31 

00 

00 

August 1983 


31 

00 

00 

September 1983 


30 

00 

00 

October 1983 


31 

00 

00 

November 1983 


30 

00 

00 

December 1983 


31 

00 

00 

January 1984 


31 

00 

00 

February 1984 


16 

22 

35 

> 

Total gap 


257 

23 

55 



257d 

59gh. 

47.5 Vigh 


The above duration in June 1983 devoid of 3d 22h 40m as 
Adhana took place on 4th at the said hour. Similarly, in 
February 84, the duration is considered only upto the moment 
of birth. For calculation of ghatis, 12 midnight is treated as the 
starting point as English dates begin at 12 midnight. 

The reader will note that we got the actual duration bet- 
ween birth and coitus counted backwards as 257 59gh 47 5Vigh 
whereas with the help of the rules, we could get 257d 57gh 
34 vigh, having a difference of less than 2.5 ghatis. This 
difference is not inexplicable. We have considered the longitu- 
dinal difference of 1 degree equalling a day (of 60 ghatis). This 
means one minute of longitude is one gh&ti. Since the birth time 
and coitus time have been perfectly noted, the difference could 
be attributed to not considering the fraction of second of arc in 
the various longitudes. Thus 2.5 gh difference m eans 2.5 minutes 
of arc. Please note that we have totally used the longitudes of 
five positions, viz. ascendant, 9th house, Gulika, Saturn and 
Moon. A small fraction of seconds of difference at every stage 
can well cause some difference. 



58 


Brihat tarosara Hdra Sastra 


Albeit the time of coitus (or Adhana) has been recorded 
properly and albeit we got the same by reverse process with the 
help of birth time as per Maharshi’s principle, one may be yet 
wondering whether it is a coincidence. To allay such a miscon- 
ception, we make again an exercise to arrive at the birth date 
and time in a forward manner with the help of coitus time 
indicated above. In such a process, we consider only classical 
rules as per standard books on Hindu Astrology, ignoring any 
suggestion from any ambiguous quarter. 

Stage 1 : Firstly we find out whether the . delivery should 
be before 273 days or after 273 days from Adhana. The relevant 
principle is from my translation of Na&hta Jatakam which 
principle owes its acknowledgment to Manushya Jatakm and 
Jataka Sagaram. 273 days is the basis as the Moon takes 273.2 
days to complete ten zodiacal revolutions The Adhana chart is 


as per the time 22 40 hours 1ST for June 4, 1983 at New Delhi. 



The Adhana Moon is waning in state and is in the invisible 


half of the zodiac. Should the Adhana Moon be waning and be 
in the invisible half, or with increasing rays in the visible half, 
then the birth takes place before 273 days from Adhana. So to 
say, the transit Moon will not complete ten revolutions. Adhana 




59 


Chapter 4 

Moon with increasing rays in the invisible half or Adhana Moon 
with decreasing rays in the visible half will cause the birth only 
after 273 days. To wit, she will in transit exceed ten revolutions 
of the firmaments. In the Adhana chart before us, the Moon is 
decreasing (i.e. approaching the Sun) and is in the 2nd house 
(i.e. invisible half). Hence it suggests a possibility of delivery 
before 273 days. The answer is known to the reader in the * 
affirmative. 

Stage 2 : It is not enough if we state that the delivery will 
be before 273 days. We must narrow down the period still 
briefly. The Sun’s position at Adhana will tell us the possible 
month of delivery. One of the rules in this context Is from 
Snka Jataka (vide p. 49 of my English translation of Hora Sara 
stating that deilvery will be in the 9th, 10th or 1 Itb month acco- 
rding to the Adhana ascendant being in a movable sign, fixed 
sign or common sign . In the case cited by me, Capricorn, a 
movable sign, is ondhe east suggesting delivery in the 9th month 
(i.e. between 240-270 days). 

Stage 3 : After the above step, our job is to dig out the 
possible Moon sign at birth. According to Kalyana Varma’s 
Saravali (ch. 8, Verses 46-47), the natal Moon will be either in 
the 7th or in the 10th from her Adhana position. In the Adhana 
chart before us, the Moon is in Aquarius and hence the natal 
Moon should be Leo or in Scorpio. The reader will observe the 
natal Moon in Leo. 

Stage 4 : Leo, as any other sign, is 30 degrees in length. 
Then where should the Moon exactly be ? Is her birth position 
justified vis a vis Adhana position ? This is known by the ascen- 
dant at birth. t 4- 7 41 7 1 ° 

The signs Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Sagittarius and 
Capricorn are nocturnal signs as these are strong during night 
time. The other six, viz. Leo, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio, Aquarius 
and Pisces are called diurnal signs being strong during day time. 

— If the Adhana Lagna is a nocturnal sign, birth will be in a 
day sign. If birth occurs in a night sign, then the ascending 
sign at Adhana should have been a day sign, (fn the Adhana 
chart given, the ascendant is Capricorn — a nocturnal sign and 
hence birth in Libra— a diurnal sign, is justified.) 

Stage 5 : Nocturnal sign can ascend in day time as well. 
Similarly diurnal sign can ascend in night time also. If the 



60 


Brihat Parasara Horn Sastra 

Adhana Lagna is a night sign, birth will be in day time and in a 
diurnal sign. If the said Lagna is a day sign, birth will occur 
in night time in a nocturnal ascendant. The fraction of sign 
natally ascending w i ll correspond to the T racti on pa<:t in ^ th* 
Adhana Lagna. 

In the Adhana chart given, the ascendant is Capricorn and 
portion past is 10° 20'37". We convert this longitude into 
seconds of arc to have accuracy* The longitude thus is 37237". 
Similarly, 30 degrees make 1,08,000 seconds of arc. The night 
duration at birth in our example is !2h 30m 48s as the Sunrise 
on 17.2 1984 is at 6h 59ra 58s and Sunset 18h 9m 10s, for 
New Delhi. Nqw see the process as under : 

108000 seconds (30 deg.) — 46248 seconds of time 

(or 12h 50m 48s) * 

37237" (or 10° 20'37") =» ? 

=- (46248 x37237)/l 08000 
. = 15945.711 seconds of time 
= 4.4293641 hours 
= 4h 26m (4h 25m 45.71 sec) 

So to say, 4h 26m have past from the Sunset, i.e. from 
18h 9m 10s. This denotes 22h 34m 55s which should be the 
birth time. And we have the birth time recorded as 22h 35m. 
This cannot be a coincidence or manipulation for a serious 
Student of astrology like me, but a meaningful and scientific 
astrological process. 

When the Adhana Mdon’s Dwadasamsa is known corre- 
ctly, the natal Moon can be well checked. She, at birth, should 
be in the same Dwadasamsa as she was at Adhana. Please note 
this agreeability — Adhana Moon as well as natal Moon being 
In Capricorn Dwadasamsa similarly. Hence our natal Moon is 
just the correct one. 

Another verification factor, which however need not exist 
if the Moon’s Dwadasama coincides, is : Whatever the angular 
distance is between Adhana Moon and Adhana I will 
prevail between the natal Moon and natal ascendant. In our 
example, the difference between Adhana Moon and Adhana 
Lagna is 48°44' whereas natal Moon and natal ascendant are 
49°6' apart. 



Chapter 4 


61 


The curious reader may note one thing. There are many 
rules to note the birth month, natal Moon, natal ascendant etc. 
with the help of Adhana (or prasna). And the correct ones 
bringing the various possibilities to a coincidental manner should 
be correctly judged without rushing to conclusions simply 
theoretically. 

Thus the reader will be convinced of the fact that Adhana 
time noted is correct as we got hack to the birth details from 
Adhana and vice versa accurately without any ambiguity what- 
soever. 

From the said two processes based on accurately maintained 
records for purposes of scientific research, I, rather we, firmly 
can conclude the following without a shadow of doubt : 

1. Gu lika’s longitude will correspond to the beginning of 
Saturn’s Muhurta only, as suggested by the sage, irrespective of 
any other authority stating that it should be for the end of 
Muhurta ruled by Saturn. In fact, I have not come across any 
sage’s work stating contrarily to what Parasara stated in this 
regard. Suppose we have calculated Gulika for the given 
birth chai;t for the end of Saturn’s muhurta, the longitude of 
Gulika would have advanced by 24 degrees. That would put 
the Adhana still 24 days behind the noted date. Please note that 
we have exactly reached the Adhana date as per the record 
maintained without any variation. This proves that Gulika 
should be at the beginning of Saturn’s Muhurta. 

2. Accurate Ayanamsa is only that of Lahiri and that accur- 
ate it is as to the seoond of arc. This contention is proved by 
the fact that we have made use of the Moon’s longitude. Other 
4 longitudes used by us in the process of getting back to Adhana 
are simply angular distances which will not be affected by any 
Ayanamsa. But the Moon’s longitude will vary plus or minus 
according to the Ayanamsa, and Adhana time will be minus or 
plus according to the variation. Whereas with Lahiri’s position 
of the Moon, we did not experience any anamoly in the Adhana 
computation. Similarly in progressing towards the birth date 
from the Adhana date, Moon’s longitude played a significant 
role. If for example with another Ayanamsa, the Moon goes to 
Pisces in the Adhana, her natal position, will yet be in Leo but 
inconsistent with Adhana position. Hence Lahiri Ayanamsa has 
all the perfection required for calculation of even the Nadiamsas. 



3f«T ftRfcra«TTsqre: MUM 


Chapter S 

Special Ascendants 

3T*TT5 a«tn? fgTOI'H*! I | 

1. Oh excellent of the Brahmins, I explain below again 
some special ascendants, viz. Bhava Lagna, Horn Lagna and 
Ghatika Lagna. 

flpfo* STOTT** qfaPTCt § «TTOT1 
innfcT 'SF^mJcT Tn*«»W afci igiwi 

1*5 qaTOlfes qqfaqfftpjf wr 1 
qtsqttfhltrfc TJ* ' T T WHH vzi * 7f?( ll^ll 

2-3. BHA VA LAGNA : From Sunrise to the time of birth 
every 5 ghatis (or 120 minutes) constitute one Bhava Lagna. 
Divide the time of birth (in ghatis, vighatis etc.) from Sun-rise 
by 5 and add the quotient etc. to the Sun’s longitude as at Sun 
rise. This is called Bhava Lagna. 

Notes : To work out the various ascendants, assume that 
the birth is at 12gh 30vi and the Sun’s longitude as prevalent at 
the time of Sun rise is 4s 12°. Find out the Bhava Lagna in the 
first instance, as under : 

When birth time is divided by 5 we get 2.5 signs or 75°. 
This is to be added to the Sun’s longitude as given which is 
132°. We get 207° or Libra 27° as Bhava Lagna. 



srofa <ttoto $rm«T tmi 


fs^f WWJ* tnfep * ** \ 

TOT*V $TOP«! FTO f$ rT* 



Chapter 5 


63 


4-5. HORA LAGNA : Again from Sun-rise till the time 
of birth, Horn Lagna repeats itself every 2$ ghatis (i. e. 60 
minutes). Divide the time past upto birth from the Sunrise by 
2J and add the quotient etc. in signs, degrees and so on to the 
longitude of the Sun as at the Sunrise. This will yield Horn 
Lagna in Rasi, degrees etc. 

Notes : Let us find out the Horn Lagna for the same exa- 
mple. 

Birth time is to be divided by 2.5. When done so, we get 
5 signs or 1 50 degrees. Add this to the Sun’s longitude as at 
sunrise (i.e. 132 plus 150=282°). We thus get Hora Lagna as 
Capricorn 12°. 

•hWlfa oshw fgJUUWT 1 I 

tmirvq wa its,u 

trarffr snfwR t 

^ qrfaET ?nT*Tf*fa: uvai» 

*prft rTET UqU 

6-8. GHAT/ LAGNA ( GHATIKA LAGNA ) ; Now listen to 

the method of working out Ghatika Lagna. This Lagna changes 
along with every Ghatika (24 minutes) from the Sunrise. Note 
the birth time in Ghati and vighatis. Consider the number of 
ghatis past as number of Rasis or Ghatika Lagnas. The Vighatis 
be divided by 2 to arrive at degrees and minutes of arc past 
in the said Ghatika Lagna. The product so arrived in Rasis, 
degrees and minutes be added to the Sun’s longitude as at 
Sunrise to get the exact location of Ghatika Lagna. So say 
sages like Narada. 

. Notes : Let us find out the Ghatika Lagna in the above 
example case. 

Birth time is 12 ghatis which gives 12 Rasis. Vighatis left 
are 30 which are to be divided by 2 and treated as degrees. 
30 divided by 2 yields 15, i.e. 15°. Thus, we note 12 signs 



64 


Brihat Parasara Hon Sastra 


15 degrees to be away from the Sun (as at rise of the day). 
When 12s 15° or 375° are added to the Sun (132°), we get 50 T 
which after expunging 360° results in 147° or Leo 27° as Ghatika 
Lagna. 


i* mi w a* ?t FTFm lien 


9. USE OF SPECIAL ASCENDANTS : Keeping the 
planets at birth as it is, prepare various Bhava charts with respect 
to each special ascendant and analyse as done for the natal 
ascendant. 

Notes : This is a very important clue given by the sage. 
We get the longitudes of the three special ascendants, viz. 
Bhava Lagna, Hora Lagna and Ghatika Lagna. Apart from the 
natal ascendant, the planets will remain in different bhavas 
according to the special ascendant being considered. Thus we 
get four different Bhava charts. If a planet remains in the 
same bhava in all the four bhava charts, it will specially reveal 
the bhava effects due to it. Otherwise, its effects are proprt- 
ionately altered in respect of that bhava. 

The Benares edition (Chaukambha series) has the following 
special hints in this chapter respecting planets and bhavas, 
thus : The planet on the cusp of a house will give full effects due 
to the bhava concerned. The one in Bhava Sandhi (end of 
house) gives no results due to that bhava. (This does not mean 
that the planet is wholly ineffective. It is, suffice to say, 
ineffective as far as that bhava is concerned.) If a planet is ahead 
of the Bhava sphuta (longitude) of the various Lagnas (i.e. Natal, 
Bhava, Hora and Ghatika Lagnas) but within 15°, its effects due 
to the Bhava concerned start diminishing. Conversely if it is 
prior to the cusp but not beyond 15°, the effects proportionately 
increase- Needless to mention that on the ‘cusp’, the effects are 
more revealed- This gives us a clue that longitude arrived in 
the case of Bhava Lagna, Hora Lagnaetc and Ghatika Lagna are, 
the center points of those Lagnas, just as for the natal ascendant. 


HFT fadMHTTJI <EvHni?oll 


L L \ 



Chapter 5 


65 



r 




*T>nt*TO«IcT: 11^11 
«n*Tcn»n?tf *ivi<Jfd i 

n^ifaf^n fr=r: 'Ttr 

3TV^H *nfcfcf H 3 TT?fft life i 

trfjj jftwkl #5TTc^ forfeltall^ll 

'R’arraV TrfVr: *r 5 1 


I0-13J. YARN ADA DAS A : I now detail Varnada Dasa 
just by knowing which, one can deal with the longevity of a 
native. If the natal ascendant is an odd sign count dirctly from 
Aries to natal ascendant. If the natal ascendant is an even sign, 
count from Pisces to the natal ascendant, in the reverse order. 
Similarly, if the Hora Lagna is an odd one, count from Aries to 
Hora Lagna in direct order. If the Hora Lagna is an even one, 
count from Pisces to Hora Lagna in the reverse order. If both 
the products are odd signs or even signs, then add both th^ 
figures. If one is odd and the other is even, then know the 
. difference between the two products. If the latest product, in 
this process, is an odd one, count so many signs from Aries in 
a direct manner; if an even one, count so many signs from Pisces 
in reverse order. The sign so known will be the Varnada for 
the ascend ant. ~ * 

Notes ; Take the case of a native who has Libra (an odd 
sign) as natal ascendant and Scorpio (an even sign) as Hora- 
Lagna. When we count from Aries to Libra (odd sign — hence 
direct), we get 7. Again from Pisces to Scorpio (Hora Lagna, an 
even sign — hence reverse) we have 5 signs. We have to add these 
two figures, as- they are of the same class, i.e. odd. We get 12. 
This product is an even one. Hence we have to count 12 signs 
from Pisces in a reverse manner to get Varanada for the Lagna. 
Thus we get Aries. This is the Varnada Rasi for natal ascendant. 

There is a suggestion from one quarter that longitudes 
of natal ascendant and Hora Lagna be also taken into consid- 
eration. In that case, the counting when done from Aries, is to 
be done from zero degree. And from Pisces, it is from the last 
degree of Pisces, i.e. the 30th degree of Pisces is the starting 
point. 


66 


Brikat Parasara ffora Sastra 


*torto?t tot uf*u 

TO?t STRIcT cTtTr^^rnr.^T cT l 

«i S’* 

tot fiTRtsr-jjnrtft nun 

14*15. EFFECTS OF VARAN ADA : Now listen to toe 
use of the above. Out of the two, viz. natal ascendant and Horn 
Lagna, whichever is stronger, from there Varnada starts. If the 
natal ascendant is an old sign, the counting of Dasas is clock- 
wise. Otherwise anti-clockwise. The Lagna dasa years will equal 
the number of signs intervening between the natal ascendant 
and Varnada. Similarly for other houses. 


trr^fte: to?** i 

**icT af? crerfiFiqw a** sit*? 

qtifaw i fa froH qmn%n?v3n 
TOrorfq fa* l i 

**TOT *RTtTT? VTT*T*fafaFefa? \\\*U 

s > > * ^ 

I»» 1 4V 1R TO ** ?cft*T? **tTO: 1 
gcTF* fa^T?m^*?fTOR?: mtn 

fa?** ?tot? ttrttojt* faf*?fa? i 

W*nf?ITOT*t * STTOTMWr<W«h*T \\^o{\ 

IN 

16-20. Should a trine from the ascendant’s Varnada be 
occupied or aspected by a malefic, the native will live only upto 
the Dasa of the said Rasi.' Just as the Rudra planet in Soola 
Dasa is capable of causing evils, the above mentioned planets 
related to Vamada’s trine be treated. The Varnada Lagna be 
considered as natal ascendant while the 7th from Varnada will 
denote the longevity of the spouse, the 1 1 th longevity of elder 
brothers and sisters, the 3rd longevity of younger brothers and 
sisters, the 5th the longevity of sons, the 4th longevity of mother 
and the 9th longevity of father. The dasa of the Soola Rasi will 
inflict greater evils. 

Notes : Rudra planet is the one which has more strength 
when the lords of 2nd and 8th are considered. The planet with 



Chapter 6 


67 


Rudra designation normally features in Soola Dasa to know the 
possible time of death. The Dasas of the Rasis are calculated in 
direct or reverse order according to the natal ascendant being 
odd or even, 

Soola Dasa calculations are akin to that of Sthira Dasa. 
But in the case of Sthira Dasa, Rudra 's counterpart is Brahma 
Graha. The two Dasas are discussed in ch. 46 of the 2nd part 
of our treatise, among various Dasas. 

qR (P*nfkirraT*Tt vcNtt trt i 

^ rr ^Rt n strtrrr n??n 
rrrt rr TTsn>rt rrrt ^r?rr i 

JMMfflT TTf*TR?lf RiRTRRTRRT R^RU^U 
q^R^RTRlfR R y<RT ?*R R^R I 

RRTSRrRiRR^R 

WFRtvtRRR RtR RfRSPRfR^Rq^ I 
RIR^UlfiHMMi RRRR RRpPRf IRYII 

21-24. Similar assessments be made with reference to the 
Varnada of each Bhava commencing the first and the evils and 
goods due to a nativity be known. These Varnada Dasas ar e 
only for Bhavas (Rasis) and not their occupant s. The sub period 
51 each Dasa will be one twelfth of the Dasa and the order will 
also be clockwise or anti-clockwise as explained earlier. The 
natal ascendant is to be calculated according to birth place while 
Bhava Lagna, Hora Lagna etc. are common to all places. 


aw ii^ii 

Chapter 6 

The Sixteen Divisions Of A Sign 

»RRT R^R’JTT^rBSTRT TTfSHTO I 
afaTfR^lfR RTRTBt R*T*R1R frqtR RT llfll 



68 


Brihat Parasara Hora Saslra 


1.0 sage, I have known from you about the planets, signs 
and their descriptions. I desire to know the details of various 
divisions of a sign, which please narrate. 

wnfa i 

WKWllfq 44q ! Wimfafil M3U 

$TT * 

HqffT: ttfrofTTV: II ^ It 

<a4dt4tSW^Ktll: qcCTT WTq eTeT: <R*T 1 1 VII 

’N 

2-4. NAMES OE THE 16 VARGAS : Lord Brahma has 
described 1 6 kinds of Vargas (Divisions) for each sign. Listen 
to those. The same are : Rasi, Hora, Drckkana, Chathurthamsa, 
Sapthamamsa, Navamsa, Dasamamsa, Dvadasamsa, Shodas- 
amsa, Vimsamsa, Chaturvimsamsa, Sapthavimsamsa, Trimsamsa, 
Khavedamsa, Akshavedamsa and Shashtiamsa. 

ernW nm *mtff mi 1 

i Tm> *4 iiitu 

I*t: ^fa?n: i 

tnU* 'r^tt ?*;m u 

amt iftcmt qftqfwq *to{iwi 

W>. RASI AND HORA : The Rasi owned by a planet is 
called its Ksbetra (one sign). The first half of an old sign is the 
Hora ruled by the Sun while the second half is the Hora of the 
Moon. The reverse is true in the case of an even sign. Half 
of Rasi is called Hora. These are totally 24 counted from 
Aries and repeat twice (at the rate of 12) in the whole of the 
zodiac. 

Notes s The names of planets lording over the 12 signs 
have been given earlier. The following table throws light on 
lordships of Horas (15° each) of the 12 signs. 



Chapter 6 


65 


Speculum Of Horas 


Sign 

Hora lord 
(0-15°) 

Hora lord 
(15 — 30°) 

Aries 

Sun 

Moon 

Taurus 

Moon 

Sun 

Gemini 

Sun 

Moon 

Cancer 

Moon 

Sun 

Leo 

Sun 

Moon 

Virgo 

Moon 

Sun 

Libra 

Sun 

Moon 

Scorpio 

Moon 

Sun 

Sagittarius 

Sun 

Moon 

Capricorn 

Moon 

Sun 

Aquarius 

Sun 

Moon 

Pisces 

Moon 

Sun 


^RqRr^lf IIV9U 

^ TTlOdl SFTJTTO ^ I 
H I <4 t-snf^f^ Ifn IBVWJdJWORiJ llsll 

7-8. DEC AN ATE : One third of a Rasi is called Drekkana 
(decanate). These are totally 36, counted from Aries (to 
Pisces), repeating thrice at the rate of 12 per round. The 1st, 
3th and the 9th Rasis from a sign a;„ its three decanates, and 
are respectively lorded by Narada, Agasthya and Doo.vasa. 

Notes : Each Rasi has three decanates or Drckkanas. The 
first one is ruled by the lord of the very sign. The second one 



Hrihat Parasara Hora S as tret 


TO 

belongs to the planet that rules the Sth from the sign in 
question. The lord of the 9th from the sign in question is the 
lord of the 3rd decanate. Each decanate is 10 degrees in length. 
The 3 decanates along with the signs in which they fall are as 
per table given belaw : 

Speculum Of Decanates 

(Note : The signs in this and other tables are indicated by 
numericals, e.g. 1 is Aries, 2 is Taurus & C.) 


Sign 


] st decanate 2nd decanate 3rd decanate 


Aries 

1 

5 

9 

Taurus 

2 

6 

10 

Gemini 

3 

7 

11 

Cancer 

4 

8 

12 

Leo 

5 

9 

1 

Virgo 

6 

10 

2 

Libra 

7 

‘ 11 

3 

Scorpio 

8 

12 

4 

Sagittarius 

9 

1 

5 

Capricorn 

10 

2 

6 

Aquarius 

11 

3 

7 

Pisces 

12 

4 

8 


tww CTGff:iltll 

9. CHATURTHAMSA : The lords of the 4 angles from a 
sign are the rulers of respective Chaturthamsa of a Rasi comme- 
ncing from Aries. Each Chathurthamsa is one fourth of a Rasi. 
The deities respectively are Sanaka, Sananda, Kumara and 
Sanatana. 

Notes : Each Chaturthamsa is one fourth of a sign or 
7° 30'. The 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th Chaturthamsas are ruled 
respectively by the same sign, the 4th, 7th and 10th signs there- 
from. See the table given below ; 



Chapter 6 


n 


Speculum Of Chaturtbamsas 


Signs 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 

7° 30' 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 

15° 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 

22 ° 30' 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 

30 J 10 11 12 123456 7 8.9 

Example : The four Chaturtbamsas of Aries are respecti- 
vely ruled by Aries, Cancer, Libra and Capricorn. 

^ Wg'iivUfis^lT: U?tll 

10-11. S A PTH AM AMS A : The Sapthamamsa (one 

seventh of a Rasi) counting commences from the same sign in 
tlie case of an odd sign. It is from the seventh sign thereof while 
an even sign is considered. The names of the seven divisions in 
odd sings are : Kshaara, Ksheera, Dadhi, Ghritha, Ikshu Rasa, 
Madhya and Suddha Jala. These designations are reversed lor an 
even sign. 

Notes : Each sign is made in 7 equal parts of 4 17 8.57 
which is called Saptamamsa. As far as odd signs are concerned, 
the Saptamamsas fall in the successive signs commencing from 
the odd sign in question. The counting in the same manner is 
from the 7th sign thereof for an even sign. Example : E or Aries, 
these divisions are Aries, Taurus Gemini etc., while for Taurus 
these are Scorpio, Sagittarius, Capricorn etc. See the table 
given below : 

Speculum Of Sapttaamamsas 


Signs 1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 

12 

D 

I 1 st Dvn 1 

8 

3 

10 

5 

12 

7 

2 

9 

4 

11 

6 

V 2nd Dvn 2 

9. 

4 

11 

6 

1 

8 

3 

10 

5 

12 

-1 

7 

o 

I 3rd Dvn 3 

10 

5 

12 

7 

2 

9 

4 

11 

6 

1 

0 

A 

S 4th Dvn 4 

11 

6 

1 

8 

3 

10 

5 

12 

7 

2 

9 

I 5th Dvn 5 

12 

7 

2 

9 

4 

11 

6 

1 

8 

3 

10 

O 6 th Dvn 6 

1 

8 

3 

10 

5 

12 

7 

2 

9 

4 

1 1 

N -7th Dvn 7 

2 

9 

4 

11 

6 

1 

8 

3 

10 

5 

12 


S 




72 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastfa 

cF^MlfacT: | 

far^ruh n 

fciT qciwnw wiit^u 

12. NA VAMSA: The Navamsa calculation are for a mova- 
ble sign from there itself, for a fixed sign from the 9th thereof 
and for a dual sign from the 5th thereof. They go by designations 
Dcva (divine), Manushya (human) and Rakshasa (devilish) in a 
successive and repetitive order for a movable sign. (Manushya, 
Rakshasa and Deva are the order for a fixed sign while Rakshasa 
Manushya and Deva are a dual sign’s order.) 

Notes : Navamsa is l/9th part of a sign or 3° 20'. The 
9 Navamsas in order commence from the same sign for a movable 
sign, from the 9th for a fixed sign and from 5th for a dual sign. 
For example ; the Navamsas of Aries are counted from Aries 
itself; from Capricorn for Taurus and from Libra for Gemini. 
Ihese are fully shown in the table below : 

Speculum Of Navamsas 


Signs 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 


D 1st 
I 2nd 
V 3rd 
I 4th 
S 5th 
I 6th 
O 7th 
N 8th 
S 9th 


1 

103 

75 4 

1 

10 

2 

11 

8 

5 

2 

11 

3 

12 

9 

6 

3 

12 

4 

I 

10 

7 

4 

1 

5 

2 

11 

8 

5 

2 

6 

3 

12 >9 

6 

3 

7 

4 

1 

10 

7 

4 

8 

5 

2 11 

8 

5 

9 

6 

3 12 

9 

6 


7 

4 

1 

10 

7 

4 

8 

5 

2 

11 

8 

5 

9 

6 

3 

12 

9 

6 

10 

7 

4 

1 

10 

7 

11 

8 

5 

2 

11 

8 

12 

9 

6 

3 

12 

9 

1 

10 

7 

4 

1 

10 

2 

11 

8 

5 

2 

11 

3 

12 

9 

6 

3 

12 


wnrtwr: i 

FST-sfrT-RR-TRTOT: l|^|| 


Chapter 6 73 

13 - 14 . : Starting from the same sign for an 

odd sign and from the 9 th with reference to an even sign, the 10 
Dasamsas each of 3 ° are reckoned. These are presided over by 
the ten rulers of the cardinal directons viz. Indra, Agni, Yama, 
Rakshasa, Varuna, Vayu, Kubera, Isana, Brahma and Anantha 
in case of an odd sign. It is in the reverse order that these 
presiding deities ore reckoned when an even sign is given. 

Notes : In the case of an odd sign, the Dasamamsas 
( 3 ° each) are successively counted from the same sign. The 
counting is from the 9 th in case of an even sign. See the table 
below : 


Speculun Of Dasamsa 



Signs 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 

12 


1st 

I 

10 

3 

12 

5 

2 

7 

4 

9 

6 

11 

8 

D 

2nd 

2 

11 

4 

1 

6 

3 

8 

5 

10 

7 

12 

9 

I 

3 rd 

3 

12 

5 

2 

7 

4 

9 

6 

11 

8 

I 

10 

V 

4 th 

4 

1 

6 

3 

8 

5 

10 

7 

12 

9 

2 

11 

I 

5 th 

5 

2 

7 

4 

9 

6 

11 

8 

1 

10 

3 

12 

s 

6th 

6 

3 

8 

5 

10 

7 

12 

9 

2 

11 

4 

1 

I 

7 th 

7 

4 

9 

6 

11 

8 

1 

10 

3 

12 

5 

2 

0 

8th 

8 

5 

10 

7 

12 

9 

2 

11 

4 

1 

6 

3 

N 

9 th 

9 

6 

11 

8 

1 

10 

3 

12 

5 

2 

7 

4 

S 10 th 

10 

7 

12 

9 

2 

11 

4 

1 

6 

3 

8 

5 


Example : For odd sings, the Dasamsas are the 10 signs 
counted successively therefrom. For even signs, these fall in 
10 successive signs counted from the 9th thereof. 


ttaTHtfoiT; swwl ipNnsfwnrrsm: huh 

15 . DVADASAMSA : The reckoning of the Dvadasamsa 
(one twelfth of a sign or 2£ degrees each) commences (rom the 
same sign. In each sign the presidentship repeats thrice in the 
order of Ganesa, Aswini Kumara, Yama and Sarpa for the 12 
Dvadasamsas, 


74 


Brihat Barasara Bora Sastara 


Notes : Each Dvadasamsa is 2° 30' and the 12 divisions 
fall successively in the successive 12 signs from the sign in quest- 
ion. The following table will show the details. 


Speculum Of Dvadasamsa 


i 



2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 

12 


It 

1 

Z, 

J 

j 

5 

6 

T 

i 

8 

0 

10 

11 

12 


2nd 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 

12 

■ 1 

D 

3rd 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 

12 

1 

2 

I 

4th 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 

12 

1 

2 

3 

V 

5th 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 

12 

1 

2 

3 

4 

I 

6th 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 

12 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

s 

7th 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 

12 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

I 

8th 

8 

9 

IB 

11 

12 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

o 

9th 

9 

10 

11 

12 

I 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6' 

7 

8 

N 

10 th 

10 

11 

12 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

s 

1 1th 

11 

12 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 


12th 

12 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 


Example : The Dvadasamsas in Aries in order arc : Aries, 
Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Leo Virgo, Libra, Scorpio, Sagittar- 
ius, Capricorn, Aquarius and Pisces. Similarly, for other signs 
these be known from the Table. 

3ESf-faG«JT ^7: ^ 

16. SHODASAMSA : Starting from Aries for a movable 
sign, from Leo for a fixed sign and from Sagittarius for a dual 
sign, the 16 Shodasnmsas (16th part ofa sign i.e. of 1°52' 30") arc 
regularly distributed. The presiding deities of these repeat in the 
order Brahma, Vishnu, Siva and Sun four times in the case of an 
odd sign. It is reverse in the case of an even sign that these 
ruling deities are understood. 

Notes : Each sign is made into 16 equal parts of Shodas- 
amsas of 1' 52' 30". The 16 divisions for any movable sign 






75 


Chapter 6 

commence from Aries and are distributed successively. Similarly 
from Leo for all fixed signs and from Sagittarius for all dual 
signs. See the table given below : 


Speculum of Shodasamsas (or Kalamsas) 



Signs 

Aries, Cancer 
Libra & Capri 

Taurus, Leo 
Scorp & 
Aquarius 

Gemini, 
Virgo, Sagi & 
Pisces 


Ist/13th 

Aries 

Leo 

Sagittarius 


2iid/14th 

Taurus 

Virgo 

Capri 


3rd/ 15th 

Gemini 

Libra 

Aqua 

D 

I 

V 

I 

4th/I6th, 

Cancer 

Scorp 

Pisces 

5th 

Leo 

Sagi 

Aries 

s 

1 

0 

N 

6th 

Virgo 

Capri 

Taurus 

7th 

Libra 

Aqua 

Gemini 

s 

8th 

Scorp 

Pisces 

Cancer 


9th 

Sagi 

Aries 

Leo 


10th 

Capri 

Taurus 

Virgo 


11th 

Aqua 

Gemini 

Libra 


12th 

Pisces 

Cancer 

Scorpio 


Example : The 16 Shodasamsas for Aries or Cancer, or 
Libra or Capricorn (movable signs) are distributed to the 1 6 signs 
(12 + 4) commencing from Aries. Similarly for fixed signs fron 
Leo and for dual signs from Sagittarius as shown in the above 
Speculum. 


fa*T%'RT»TPTmfs<TT \ 


76 


Brihat Parasara Bora Sastta 

ifrft 3TOT fatTHT ) 

cnrr ^facfr sRRngtjft iuj^h 

sTc^r^rr sraft ft aft w^t to toti 
firgTT gg^V $fir qftfafa^r nt&u 

TOTT?ft ^7T ^EJT fg^sfaf fwnfvfy \ 
a[*TO(ft 5f *TO^y vmt TO-SWMvU ll^oll 
stri *rcnft ’i'rn'y froi i 
^ *rjpn ii^ii 

17-21. VIMSAMSA : From Aries for a movable sign, 
from Sagittarius for a fixed sign and from Leo for a common 
sign this is how the calculations of Vimsamsa ( 1 /20th of a 
sign or 1 30 each) are to commence. The presiding deities of the 
20 Vimsamsas in an odd sign are respectively : Kaali 
Gnuri, Jaya (sm), Lakshmi, Vijaya, Vimala, Sati, Tara, Jvala- 
Mukhi, Sveta, Lalita, Bagala-mukhi, Pratyangira, Sachi, Raudri, 
Bhavani, Varada, Jaya (^r), Tripura and Sumukhi. In an even 
sign these 20 deities respectively are : Daya, Megha, Chinnasi, 
Pisachini, Dhoomavathi, Matangi, Bala, Bbadra, Aruna, Anala, 
Pingala, Chuchchuka, Ghora, Vaarahi, Vaishnavi, Sita (fwrr), 
Bhuvanesvari, Bhairavi, Mangala and Aparajita. 

Notes : There are 20 Vimsam sas at the rate of 1°30' 
degrees in the whole of a sign. See the speculum of Vimsamsas 
given below : 

Speculum of Vimsamsas 

Signs Aries, Cancer, Taurus, Leo Gemini, 

Libra & Scorp&Aqua Virgo, Sapi 

Capri & Pisces 


D 

j 

Ist/I3th 

Aries 

Sagi 

Leo 

V 

I 

s 

j 

2nd/14th 

Taurus 

Capri 

Virgo 

3rd/ 1 5th 

Gemini 

Aqua 

Libra 

o 

M 

4th/16th 

Cancer 

Pisces 

Scorp 

s 

5th/17th 

Leo 

Aries 

Sagi 


77 


Chapter 6 


6th/18th 

Virgo 

Taurus 

Capri 

7tb/19tb 

Libra 

Gemini 

Aqua 

8th/20tb 

Scorp 

Cancer 

Pisces 

9th 

Sagi 

Leo 

Aries 

10th 

Capri 

Virgo 

Taurus 

11th 

Aqua 

Libra 

Gemini 

12th 

Pisces 

Scorp 

• Cancer 


EXAMPLE : For Aries and other movable signs, the 
20 divisions are in order distributed from Aries; for fixed signs 
from Sagittarius and for dual signs from Leo as could be seen 
from the Table. 

F«R> F>F: FJFTtT II 

wW FFH 11^ ;}ll 

22-23. SWDHAMSA : The Siddhamsa (l/24th part of a 
sign or 1°15‘ each) distribution commences from Leo and Cancer 
respectively for an odd sign and an even sign. In the case of an 
odd sign the ruling deities repeat twice in the order of Skanda, 
Parsudhara, Anala, Yiswakarma, Bhaga, Mitra, Maya, Antaka, 
Vrisha-dhwaja, Govinda, Madana and Bhima. Reverse these 
from Bhishma (to Skanda) twice to know the deities for the 
Siddhamsa in an even aign. 

Notes : Siddhamsa is also called Chaturvimsamsa, each 
being of a length of 1°15\ (24 in number in the whole of a sign). 
The successively distributed Siddhamsas commence from Leo 
for any odd sign and from Cancer for any even sign, as per the 
Table : 


78 


Brihat Parasara Horn Sastra 


Speculum of Siddhamsa 



Signs 

Odd 

Even 


1st/ 13 th 

Leo 

Cancer 


2nd/ 14th 

Virgo 

Leo 


3rd/ 15th 

Libra 

Virgo 

D 

I 

4 th/ 16th 

Scorp 

Libra 

V 

I 

5th/ 17th 

Sagi 

Scorp 

J 

I 

6th/ 18th 

Capri 

Sagi 

O 

N 

7th/ 19th 

Aqua 

Capri 

S 

8th/20th 

Pisces 

Aqua 


9th/21st 

Aries 

Pisces 


10th/22nd 

Taurus 

Aries 

- 

1 lth/23rd 

Gemini 

Taurus 

• 

12th/24th 

Cancer 

Gemini 


Tr*wfeTT: n^vn 



ddl^itr^Kfu: yn «t<T sr<pH?f?Tr: i 

^ar^TTr^T *rirr*n ii^ii 

24-26. BHAMSA (NAKSHATRAMSA OR S APT A VIM S- 
AMSA ) : The Bhamsa lords are respectively the presiding deities 
of the 27 Nakshatras as under : Dastra (Aswini Kumara), Yama, 


Chapter 6 


79 


Agni, Brahma, Chandra, Isa, Aditi, Jiva, Ahi, Pitara, Bhaga, 
Aryama, Surya, Tvashta, Marut, Sakragni, Mitra, Vasava, Raks- 
hasa, Varuna, Visvadeva, Govinda, Vasu, Varuna, Ajapa, Ahirb- 
udhanya and Pusha. These are for an odd sign. Count these 
deities in a reverse order for an even sign. The Bhamsa distri- 
bution commences from Aries and other movable signs for all 
the 12 signs. 

Notes : One Bhamsa is of 1° 6' 40" of arc and there are 
27 such divisions in a sign. See the speculum given below : 


Speculum Of Bhamsa 



Signs 

I 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

if 

12 


lst/13th/25th 

I 

4 

7 

10 

1 

. 4 

7 

10 

1 

4 

7 

10 

D 

2nd/14th/26th 

2 

5 

8 

11 

2 

5 

8 

11 

2 

5 

8 

11 

I 

3rd/I5th/27th 

3 

6 

9 

12 

3 

6 

9 

12 

3 

6 

9 

12 

V 

4th/ I 6th 

4 

7 

10 

1 

4 

7 

10 

1 

4 

7 

10 

1 

I 

5th/17th 

5 

8 

11 

2 

5 

8 

11 

2 

5 

8 

11 

2 

s 

6th/ 18th. 

6 

9 

12 

3 

6 

9 

12 

3 

6 

9 

12 

3 

I 

7th/ 19th 

7 

10 

1 

4 

7 

10 

1 

4 

7 

10 

1 

4 

o 

8th/20th ■ 

8 

11 

2 

5 

8 

11 

2 

5 

8 

11 

2 

5 

N 

9th/21st 

9 

12 

3 

6 

9 

12 

3 

■6 

9 

12 

3 

6 

s 

10th/22nd 

10 

1 

4 

7 

10 

1 

4 

7 

10 

1 

4 

7 


,1 1th /23rd 

11 

2 

3 

8 

11 

2 

5 

8 

11 

2 

5 

8 


12th/24th 

12 

3 

6 

9 

12 

3 

6 

9 

12 

3 

6 

9 


The Bhamsas (or Nakshatramsas or Sapthavimsamsas) are 
distributed from Aries for fiery signs, from Cancer for earthy 
signs, from Libra for airy signs and Capricorn for watery signs. 
I have on P. 31 of my English translation of SARAVALI given 
different calculation for Nakshatramsa. That source obviously 
is defective and I would prefer Parasara’s version as given in our 
present text. 

faqSf qprPPfosT’fTTffST: I 

M l W IT q ^ IRV91I 





80 


Brlhat Parasara Hora Sastra 


sr%: * a?rd 

^UTT^?r^n: ?T*TTPfft famiMTfl H^elt 

« N 

27-28. TRIMSAMSA : The Trimsamsa lords for an odd 
sign are Mars, Saturn, Jupiter, Mercury and Venus. Each of 
them in order rules 5,5, 8, 7 and 5 degrees, The deities ruling over 
the Trimsamsas are respectively, Agni, Vayu, Indra, Kubera, 
and Varuna. In the case of an even sign, the quantum of 
Trimsamsa, planetary lordship and deities get reversed. 

Notes : For Trimsamsa divisions, see the table given below : 


Speculum of Trimsamsas 



Signs 

L3, 5, 7,9 
and 1 1 

Signs 

2,4,6,8,10 and 
12 

D 

I 

V 

T 

First 5° 

Aries 

First 5° 

Taurus 

Next 5° 

Aquarius 

Next 7° 

Virgo 

1 

S 

T 

Next 8° 

Sagittarius 

Next 8° 

Pisces 

1 

O 

N 

Next 7° 

Gemini 

Next 5° 

Capricorn 

S 

Next 5° 

Libra 

Next 5° 

Scorpio 


% 

5T*n: *^Tfa<TCmfNrTT: H^£ll 

ETTcTT fsfRtTfer: | 

mit TTvft 

29-30. CHATVARIMSAMSA (l/40lh part of a sign ) : For 
odd signs count from Aries and for an even sign from Libra in 
respect of Chatvarimsamsas (each of 45' of arc). Vishnu, Chan- 
dra, Marichi, Tvashta, Dhata, Siva, Ravi, Yama, Yaksha, Gand- 
harva, Kala and Varuna repeat successively as presiding deities 
in the same order for all sings. 

Notes : Chatvarimsamsa or Khavedamsa is a fortieth part 
of a sign or 45’ of arc. These are successively distributed in the 
various signs from Aries in case of any odd sign, and from Libra 
in case of any even sign. See the table noted below : 




Chapter 6 


81 


Speculum of Cbatvarimsamsa 



Signs 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 

12 


1st, 13th, 25th, 37th 

1 

7 

1 

7 

1 

7 

1 

7 

1 

7 

1 

7 

D 

2nd, 14th, 26th, 38th 

2 

8 

2 

8 

2 

8 

2 

8 

2 

8 

2 

8 

I 

3rd, 15th, 27th, 39th 

3 

9 

3 

9 

3 

9 

3 

9 

3 

9 

3 

9 

V 

4th, 16th, 28th, 40th 

4 

10 

4 

10 

4 

10 

4 

10 

4 

10 

4 

10 

I 

5th, 17th, 29th 

5 

11 

5 

11 

5 

11 

5 

11 

5 

11 

5 

11 

S 

6th, 18th, 30th 

6 

12 

6 

12 

6 

12 

6 

12 

6 

12 

6 

12 

1 

7th, 19th, 31st 

7 

1 

7 

1 

7 

1 

7 

1 

7 

1 

7 

1 

o 

8th, 20th, 32nd 

8 

2 

8 

2 

8 

2 

8 

2 

8 

2 

8 

2 

N 

9th, 21st, 33rd 

9 

3 

9 

3 

9 

3 

9 

3 

9 

3 

9 

3 

S 

10th, 22nd, 34th 

10 

4 

10 

4 

10 

4 

10 

4 

10 

4 

10 

4 


11th, 23rd, 35th 

11 

5 

11 

5 

11 

5 

11 

5 

11 

5 

11 

5 


12th, 24th, 36th 

12 

6 

12 

6 

12 

6 

12 

6 

12 

6 

12 

6 


As regards ruling deities Vishnu to Varuna repeat 3 times 
while in the 4th round the rulersbip is only upto Tvashta. 

fWrT I 

ft*K 1 13 % 1 1 

fwrsirerg^esT fasur%3TT: ft^T fH \ 

^t: q^?TP?Tin ftr?rm ! n^ii 

31-32. AKSHA VEDA MSA {l /45th part of a sign) : 
Aries, Leo and Sagittarius are the signs from which the distri- 
butions respectively commence for movable, immovable aid 
common signs. In movable signs, Brahma, Siva and Vishnu; 
in immovable sings Siva, Vishnu and Brahma and in common 
sings Vishnu, Brahma and Siva repeat 15 times the president- 
ship over these Akshavedamsas. 

Notes : Each Akshavedamsa is of 40' arc as a sign is 
divided into 45 equal- parts. Aries is the starting point for all 
movable signs, Leo for all fixed signs and Sagittarius for all dual 
signs. The distribution is through in successive signs in each 
case. See the Tabic given on the next page : 



Brihat Parasara Horn Sastra 

Speculum of Akshavedamsa 

Signs 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 II 12 


1st, 13th, 25th, 37th 1 5 9 

•2nd, 14th, 26th, 38th 2 6 10 
D 3rd, 15th, 27th, 39th 3 7 11 
l 4th, 16th, 28th, 40th 4 8 12 
V 5th, 17th, 29th, 41st 5 9 1 
I 6th, 18th, 30th, 42nd 6 10 2 
S 7th, 19th, 31st, 43rd 7 11 3 
I 8th, 20th, 32nd, 44th 8 12 4 
O 9th, 21st, 33rd, 45th 9 1 5 
N 10th, 22nd, 34th 10 2 6 
S 11th, 23rd, 35th 11 3 7 
12th, 24th, 36th 12 4 8 


1 5 9 1 5 9 1 5 9 

2 6 10 2 6 10 2 6 10 

3711 3 7 11 3 7 11 

4 8 12 4 8 12 4 8 12 

5 9 1 5 9 1 5 9 1 

6 10 2 6 10 2 6 10 2 

7 11 3 7 11 3 7 11 3 

8 12 4 8 12 4 8 12 4 

9 1 5 9 1 5 9 1 5 

10 2 6 10 2 6 10 2 6 

11 3 7 II 3 7 11 37 

12 4 8 12 4 8 12 4 8 


TTCT>T 

cTCTWRT: HJcTT: ll^u 

TTWT> t*: | 

TO: JSTEift 113*11 

| ) 3 * 1 1 

gfaqft sreTfrrqfafljw: 113^11 

H 3 V 3 II 

tffrrTFTlfviy: | 

5 r"H: VT?rqri^>: (13^11 

5 ^*jf?RtT?T: flfar: 5 pT>sfh?f>fTRr>S^cT; | 

'Rtr^JT’JlT^t ^ 113 £|| 

^ ^ sRftfiiw; \ 



Chapter 6 83 

AfT: STW 5 !*?!: I 

>3 « N- « 

?R<7^>m^i?cTT rrm^far ts ra T l r°Tt nygn 

33-41. SHASHTIAMSA {lf60ih part a of sign or half-a- 
degree each) : To calculate the Shashtiamsa lord, ignore the sign 
position of a planet and take the degrees etc. it traversed in that 
sign. Multiply that figure by 2 and divide the degrees by 12. Add 
1 to the remainder which will indicate the sign in which the 
Shashtiamsa falls. The lord of that sign is the planet ruling the 
said Shashtiamsa. In odd signs, the names of Shashtiamsas are : 

I. Ghora, 2. Rakshasa, 3. Deva, 4. Kubera, 5. Yaksba, 
6. Kinnara, 7. Bhrashta, 8. Kulaghna, 9. Garala, 10. Vahni, 

II. Maya, 12. Purishaka, 13. Apampathi, 14. Marutwan, 

15. Kala, 16. Sarpa, 17. Amrita 18. Indu, 19. Mridu, 

20. Kornala, 21. Heramba, 22. Brahma, 23. Vishnu, 24. Mabes- 
wara, 25. Deva, 26. Ardra, 27. Kalinasa, 28. Kshiteesa, 
29. Kamalakara, 30. Gulika, 31. Mrithyu, 32. Kaala, 
33. Davagni, 34. Ghora, 35. Yama, 36 Kantaka, 37. Sudha, 
38. Amrita, 39. Poornachandra, 40. Vishadagdha, 41, Kulanasa, 
42. Vamsakshaya, 43. Utpata, 44. Kaala, 45. Saumya, 
46. Kornala, 47. Seetala, 48. Karala Damshtra 49. Chandra- 
mukhi, 50. Praveena, 51. Kalapavaka, 52. Dandayudha, 
53. Nirmala. 54. Saumya, 55. Kroora, 56. Atiseetala, 57. Amrita 
58. Payodhi, 59. Bhramana, 60. Chandrarekha (Indurekha). The 
reverse is the order for even signs insomuch as these names are 
concerned. Planets in bcnefic Shashtiamsas produce auspicious 
results while the opposite is true in case of planets in malefic 
Shashtiamsas. 

Notes : The method of calculating the ruling planet for 
each Shashtiamsa (or 1 /60th pat of a sign or 30' of arc) is 
advised in sloka 33 above. Assume that Venus is placed in 
Capricorn 13° 25'. To find out the Shashtiamsa lord, ignore the 
sign position and multiply the degrees and minutes by 2. Hence 
13° 25' X 2=26° 50'. The degrees i.e. 26 (ignoring minutes) be 
divided by 12. The remainder is 2 which should be increased 
by 1. Thus we get 3. Count 3 signs from Capricorn. The 
resulting Shashtiamsa position is Pisces whose lord is Jupiter. 
These positions can also be marked in a zodiacal diagram for 
the planets and ascendant for an easy grasp. 

The order of Shashtiamsas along with the meanings of 



84 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


their designations are denoted below. These will be very help- 
ful in delineation and to know whether a particular Shashtiamsa 
is benefic or malefic in nature, (as marked against each Shash- 
tiamsa). 


Odd sign 


Even sign 

0°-0° 30' 

1. Ghora (M)— aweful, violent. 

29° 30'-30° 

0°30'-l° 

2. Rakshasa (M)— demoniacal. 

29°-29°30' 

r-r30' 

3. Deva (B)— divine, spiritual side. 

28°30’-29° 

l°30'-2° 

4. Kubera (B)— celestial treasurer. 

28 c '-28°30' 

2 o -2°30‘ 

5. Yaksha (B) — celestial singer. 

27°30'-28° 

2°30’-3° 

6. Kinnara (B) — a mythical being IT -IT 30' 

with a human head in the form 
of a horse, a bad or deformed man. 

3°-3°30' 

7. Bhrashta (M)— fallen, vicious. 

26°30-27° 

3°30'-4° 

8 . Kulagbna (M) — ruining a family. 

26°-26°30' 

4°-4°30' 

9. Garala (M)— poison or venom. 

25°30'-26° 

4°30’-5° 

10. Vahnl (M)— fire, gastric fluid, 
digestive faculty, appetite. 

25°-25°30' 

5°-5°30' 

1 1 . Maya (M) — deceit, jugglery. 

24°30’-25° 

5 9 W-6° 

12. Purishaka (M)— dirt. 

24°-24 o 30' 

6°-6°30’ 

13. Apampathi (B)— the ocean, 
Varuna, (the rain god). . 

23°30'-24° 

6°30'-7° 

14. Marut (B)— the wind god. 

23°23°30' 

70 - 7030 - 

1 5. Kaala (M)— dark blue colour, 
weather, Time considered as one 
of the nine dravyas by the 
Vaiseshikas, a person who 
distils and sells liquor, Saturn, 
Siva, a personification of the 
destructive principle. 

22°30'-23° 

7° 30-8° 

16. Sarpa (M)— snake. 

22 9 -22°30' 

8°-8°30' 

17. Amrtta (B)— immortal, nectar. 

21 D 30'-22° 

8°30'-9° 

18, Indu (B)-— Moon, the number 1, 
camphor. 

21°-21°30' 

9°-9°30' 

19. Mridu(B)— moderate, soft. 

20°30’-21° 



Chapter 6 

9 a 30'-10° 
10 s - 10°30' 


io°3o'-ir 
1 1°-11°30' 

H°30'-12° 


85 


18°30'-19° 


18°-18°30' 


12°-12 J 30' 

12°30'-13 D 

I3 n -13°30' 


13°30'-14° 

14°-14°30' 

14°30'-1 5° 
15°-15°30' 
15°30'-16° 
16°-16°30' 

16 o 30'-17 9 

17°-17°30' 

17°30'-18° 


18°-18°30' 

18° 30'- 19° 
19 0 -19°30‘ 


20. Komala (B)— tender, agreeable. 20°-20°30' 

21. Heramba (B)— Ganesa, (the elep- 19°30'-20° 
hant faced god), a boastful hero, 

buffalo. 

22. Brahma (B)— the Universal Father, 19°-19°30' 
a missile, sacred knowledge. 

23. Vishnu (B) — ' the second deity of 
the sacred Triad, name of Agni, 
name of a lawgiver (author of 
Vishnusmriti), a pious man. 

24. Maheswara (B) — the third deity 
of the Triad entrusted with the 
task of Great Destruction, also 
name of Vishnu, a 'great lord 
(sovereign). 

25. Deva (B)— same as S. No, 3 

26. Ardra (B)— moist 

27. Kalinasa (B) — destruction of 
strife (according to some, this 
is a malefic Shashtiamsa) 

28. Kshiteesa (B)— ruler of the earth 

29. Kamalakara (B) — a lake full of 
lotuses, an assemblage of lotuses. 

30. Gulika (M)— Saturn’s son 


17°30’-18° 

17°-17°30' 

16°3Q'-17“ 


1 6°*1 6°30' 
15°30'-16“ 

15°-15 o 30' 

31. Mrithyn (M) — son of Mars, death. 14 30-15 

32. Kaala (M)— same as S.No. 15 14M4°30' 

33. Davagani (M) — a forest confla- 13 30-14 
gration. 

34. Ghora (M)— same as S.No. 1 

35. Yama (M)— death personified 

36. (M)— thorn, any trouble- 12°-12°30' 
some fellow to the state and 

enemy of order and government. 

37. Sudha (B) — nectar, ambrosia, name 11°30'-12° 
of the Ganges. 

38. Amrita (B) — same as S.No. 17 ll°-ll o 30’ 

39. Poornachandra (B) — Full Moon. 10°30'-11° 


i3°-13°30' 

12°30’-13° 



86 


Prihat Parasara Hora Sastra 

1 9®30'-20° 40. Vlshadagdha (M)-destroyed by 10°-]0°30' 
venom, consumed by grief. 

20-20 30 41. Kulanasa (M) — same as 8. 9°30'-10° 

20°30'-2r' 42. Vamsakshaya (M)— descent not 9 o -9°30’ 
growing further. 

21 -21 30 43. Utpata (M) — a portentous or 8°30'-9° 
unusual phenomenon . boding 
- calamity, any public calamity 
like an eclipse, earthquake & C. 

21 30-22 44 Kaala (M) — same as No. 15 8 °-8 °30* 

22 -22 30 45. Saumya (B) — relating or sacred to 7°30'-8° 

the Moon, handsome, auspicious. 

22 30-23° 46. Komala (B) — same as 20 7°-7°30' 

23 -23 30 47. Seetala (B) — cold, Moon, camphor, 6 o 30'-7° 

turpentine, sandal. 

23°30'-24° 48. Karaladamshtra (M)— frightful 6 o -6°30' 
teethed 

24“'-24°30' 49. Chandramnkhl (B)— having the 5 t ’30'-6° 
beauty of the Moon. 

24°30'-25’ 50. Pravecna (B)— clever, versed in. 5°-5°30' 

25 -25 30 51. Kala Pavaka (M) — the destructive 4°30'-5° 
fire at the end of the world. 

25°30'-26° 52. Dandayudha (M)— the staff held by 4°-4°30' 
an ascetic (or by a Brahmin). 

26 o -26°30' 53. Nirmala (B) — resplendent, sinless. 3°30'-4° 
stainless, virtuous. 

26°30'-27° 54. Saumya (B) — same as S.No. 45 3°-3°30' 

27°-27°30 55. Kroora (M) — pitiless, mischievous, 2°30'-3° 
bloody, disagreeable, terrible- 

27 30 -28° 56, Atiseetaia (B) — very cold. 2 o -2°30* 

28° , -28°30' 57. Amrita (B) — same as S.No. 17 l°30‘-2° 

28 30-29 58. Payodhi (B) — Ocean. l^^SO’ 

29 -29 30 59. Bhramana (M) — wandering. 0°30 , -l° 

29 30-30 60. Chandra Rekha (B) — the digit or 0°-0°30' 

streak of the Moon. 

With the above interpretation of the names of the Shasht- 



87 


Chapter 6 

iamsas, we will be wellguided in the matter of predictions. For 
example, if a benefic planet i: in the 3rd house identical with a 
benefic’s Rasi in ‘Yaksha’ shashtiamsa, the native will have high 
musical achievements. If Jupiter or the 2nd lord be in ‘Kubera’ 
Shashtiamsa, one will be very affluent. If a planet in the 8th is 
in ‘Payodhi’ shashtiamsa, fear from water may be expected. If 
the 10th lord occupies ‘Dhrashta’ shashtiamsa, the native will be 
wretched in profession. In this manner, many incidents can be 
clearly estimated which may not be ‘visible to ordinary eye 
from the horoscope. 

Now, we have before us the details of all the 16 divisions 
as dealt with by sage Parasara. One more minute division, the 
minutest in Hindu Astrology, is Nadi Amsa or 150th part of a 
sign which will complete the system of Divisionalisation. For 
details, please see my works “Doctrines of Suka Nadi — Retold” 
and “An Epitome of Nadi Granthas”. 

5T«lf fastfRTOT ^ UY^ll 

^ 3 * qssqfsrcq ^ i 

f'JSvrqtq: UYYIl 

^c^fg-rfsq qif^ITTrTTf^HJf^rT: I 

qilrsmi iivnn 

cT^Tl 

'«%ff q3faqq?lte ^ STRfa: IIY^Ii 

fefitq: q>3$iqq% UyvjII 

tfcqj fafa: *qT?T I 

^afaqfngtq qqfa: liven 

V|%cT q^fa: *TRfa: I 

qqfa; iiYtii 



88 


Brihat Parasara flora Sastra 

*TTR ?5t£I^tTfV^lcT l 

qjfww ny.oii 

w%fa>NfM ¥rai*ffaW i 

>sftt»e*T*n*iT WT?*lf ^t^lfcTT: nn?a 

fq't'«H*T?rf^fj)ui^qv(q^Tfuq^; ?T?n: J 

C% o 

WT^8ld *nf m^n: gsftem nx^n 

arftincn ^ijfsRTr ?f^nn 5^1 ^ 1 

WRTfaffrfW^WI 3PT?5TT irtrRnFWT: 11*311 

42-53. VARGA CLASSIFICATION : Maitreya, explained 
now are the sum effects of classifications of different divisions 
(or Vargas so far narrated). These are four kinds, viz- Shad 
Varga (6 divisions considered), Saptha Varga (7 divisions consid- 
ered), Dasa Varga (10 divisions considered) and Shodasa Varga 
(all the 16 divisions considered). In the Shad varga classification, 
the Varga designations arc Kimsuka, Vyanjana, Chaamara, 
Chatra and Kundala according to a planet being in 2 to 6 
combinations of good Vargas. Next is the Sapt avarga in which 
these classifications continue in the same manner upto six 
combinations of good Vargas, the 7th additional Varga getting 
classified as Mukula. In the Dasa Varga scheme, the designations 
commence from Parijata etc. such as 2 good Vargas — Parijatha. 
3. Uttama, 4. Gopura, 5. Simhasana, 6. Paaravata, 7. Devaloka, 
8. Brahmaloka, 9. Sakravahana and 10. Vargas— Sridhama. 
In the Shodasa Varga scheme the combinations of Vargas 
go with designations thu9 : two good Vargas— Bhedaka, 
3. Kusuma, 4. Nagapushpa, 5. Kanduka, 6. Kerala, 7. Kalpa- 
vriksha, 8. Chandana Vana, 9. Poornachandra, 10. Uchchaisrava, 
11. Dhanvantari, 12. Suryakanta, 13. Vidruma, 14. Sakra- 
simhasana, 15. Goloka and 16. Vargas— Sri Vallabha. In these 
divisions, the divisions falling in the planet’s exaltation sign, 
Moolatrikona sign, own sign, and the signs owned by the lord 
of an angle from the Arudha ascendant are all to be considered 
(as good Vargas). The divisions of a combust planet, defeated 
planet, weak planet and a planet in bad Avasthas like Sayana be 
all ignored to be auspicious, for these destroy the good yogas. 

Notes : Four kinds of summary of the Vargas or divisions 
are suggested thus ; 



Chapter 6 89 

(a) Shadvarga (considering si* Vargas) viz. Rasi, Hora, 
Decanate, Navamsa Dvadasamsa and Trimsamsa. 

(b) Sapta Varga (seven Vargas) adding Saptamamsa to the 
Shad Varga. 

(c) Dasa Varga (ten Vargas) adding Shodasamsa, Dasama- 
msa and Shashtiamsa divisions to the Sapta Varga. 

(d) Shodasa Varga (all the 16 Vargas so far narrated by 
the sage). 

The groups as above are as per slokas 17-20 of ch. 7 infra. 

The Vargas to be considered (as good) are : 

1. Exaltation divisions. 

2. Moolatrikona divisions. 

3. Own divisions. 

4. The divisions of the owners of the four angles counted 
from the Arudha Pada or Pada Lagna. 

The first three are clear. The fourth one needs a clarifica- 
tion. Insloka 52 above, the word ( Swarudhath ) has 

been used which means from the Arudha Pada or Pada Lagna. 
Hence the lust quarter of stoka 52 hints at the ' divisions of the 
lords of angles from the Arudha Pada”, (Similarly “Swamsa” or 
T3ff9T means the Navamsa occupied by Atma Karaka i.e. Kara- 
kamsa ascendant, vide ch. 33, infra.) 

The sage suggests that the signs owned by the lords of 
Arudha Lagna and of its angles are considered good for Va^ga 
Division. This will bring many signs— sometimes as many as 8— 
in the purview of this rule. It has been felt necessary to bring 
this liberal approach contained in the sloka to the attention of 
the reader. In my opinion, the truer strength of a planet lies 
in its Moolatrikona, exaltation and own sign positions. 

For the sake of brevity, the good Vargas in number in the 
context of Shadvarga through Shodasa Varga are given special 
designations as detailed below : 

If Shadvarga scheme is considered two or more such good 
Vargas are known thus : 

2. Kimsuka 3. Vyanjana 4. Chamara 5. Chatra 6. Kundala. 

If Sapta Varga scheme is used the same names upto six 
good Vargas apply while seven good Vargas go under the name 
Mukuta. 



Brihat Parasara flora Sasfra 


$0 

If Dasa Varga scheme is resorted to, the good Vargas in 
number are called thus : 

2. Parijata 3. Uttama 4. Gopura 5. Simhasana 6. Paravata 
7. Devaloka 8. Brahmaloka 9. Sakravahana 10. Sridhama. 

The author of Sarvartha Chintatnani designates 8, 9 and 10 
respectively as Amara, Iravata and Vaiseshikamsas. In fact, 
these three are popularly known with these names viz. Amara 
etc. rather than with the ones given by Maharshi, 

When Shodasa Varga scheme is wholly considered, the 
number of good divisions are known as : 

2. Bhedaka 3. Kusuma 4. Nagapushpa 5, Kanduka 
6. Kerala 7. Kalpavriksha 8. Chandanavana 9. Poornachandra 
10. Uchchaisrava 111 Dhanvantari 12 Suryakanta 1 3. Vidruma 
34. Sakrasimhasana 15. Goloka 16. Sri Vallabha. 

It may be noted that most of even the hoary authors have 
not gone beyond Dasa Varga scheme. The sage has fully explai- 
ned all the 16 Vargas involved so that a planet’s actual disposit- 
ion is properly known. 

As far as Hora or half of a sign is concerned “good 
Vargas” should be flexibly used as except the Sun and Moon, 
none has rulership of Hora. Jupiter is in exaltation Varga if in 
Moon’s Hora. Then, for Jupiter in Sun's Hora, and for other 
four in any Hora, how do we classify the Varga? In my opinion, 
we have to follow the hint given in sloka 13 of the next chapter 
that Jupiter, Sun and Mars give effects if in Sun’s Hora (as far 
as Hora is concerned) and the rest of the planets except Mercury 
in Moon’s Hora. Mercury is good in both the Horas. So to 
say, these are good Horas for the concerned planets. ll follows 
that Jupiter and Mercury are good in any Hora for Varga 
classification. (There are further hints about Hora, vide ch.7, 
sloka 13 onwards.) 

Nextly, a brief clarification is required htadut the Sun arid 
Moon not having own Trimsamsas. The Sun can occupy Aries 
in Trimsamsas and the Moon can be ih Taurus iti Venusian 
Trimsamsa. They cannot be ih Leo or Cancer in Trimsainsa 
charts. Hence only exaltation will apply to them in Trimsamsa. 

Now, coming back to the Varga names, we Will take up 
some for clarifications. The word “Suryakantamsa” denotes 



Chapter 7 ^ 

that the planet or the ascendant, as the case may be, has obta- 
ined 12 good Vargas in the Shodasa Varga or 15 divisions. 
Similarly "quHniwi” or Paravatamsa indicates six good Vargas 
in Dasa Varga scheme. One can understand these terms on these 
lines. 


3 T«T qnfqqqrnsmtr; iivsi | 

Chapter 7 

Divisional Consideration 

farm? iftTim u?n 

cT I 

# fo?r?r trcranri? ii^ii 
ftqqiqf **TOm I 

{H^tST cT^T qK r ?TT?1% l|^|| 

gqTsgsrcti fonqr q i 

3'n*nnm fwN smij ftrofowrit iiyii 
P mnn msr 

i?T ^TSyjvqiT 1 1 <01 
^cffq'^sfqqrfhTtlcT i 
fqrfq flr$TF3: \i\\\ 

fHr ?T q«TT I 

fa f^Tfa qrsni?T: ^m?nfaqf?T: *pr: n^a 
fa qqf^hrt q«n | 

tf?T *>cvnmfof srfimfen: item. 

1-8. USE OF THE 16 DIVISIONS : I now explain tbe 
vise of these sixteen divisions. The physique from the ascendant, 
wealth from Hora, happiness through coborn from decanate. 



92 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastrti 


fortunes from Chaturthamsa, sons and grandsons from saptha* 
msa, spouse from Navamsa, power (and position) from Dasamsa, 
parents from Dvadasamsa, benefits and adversities through 
conveyances from Shodasamsa, worship from Vimsarosa, learn- 
ing from Chathur Vimsamsa. strength and weakness from 
Bhamsa, evil, effects from Trimsamsa, auspicious and inauspicious 
effects from Khavedamsa, and all indications from both Aksha- 
vedamsa and Shashtiamsa : these are the considerations to be 
made through the respective Vargas or divisions. The bhava 
whose lord is in a malefic Shashtiamsa will diminish, so say 
Garga and others. The bhava whose lord is in a benefic Shodas- 
amsa (or Kalamsa) flourish. This is how the 16 Vargas are to be 
evaluated. 

Notes t The Shodasa vargas, apart from giving clues as to 
the dignity of a planet, can be used to delineate various Bhava 
effects. The proper instruments are : 

J. Ascendant for the wellbeing or otherwise of the 
physique. 

2. Hora for wealth. 

3. Decan ate for happiness through coborn. 

4. Chaturthamsa for fortunes. 

5. Saptamamsa for dynasty (i.e. progeny etc.) 

6. Navamsa for spouse. 

7- Dasamamsa for power and position (i.e. livelihood etc.) 

£. Dvadasamas for parents. 

9. Shodasamsa for conveyances and related happiness. 

VO. Vimsamsa for worship, spiritual progress, religious 
activities etc. 

11. Chaturvimsamsa for academic achievements. 

12. Bhamsa for strength and weakness. 

13. Trimsamsa for evils. 

14. Khavedamsa for auspicious and inauspicious effects. 

J5. Akshavedamsa for all general indications. 

16. Shashtiamsa for all general indications. 

Vfiiz-n for example, considering the academic achievemen ts 
o f* thrive, take thTlnd and 4th lords, it these occupy tajp ur- 
a file Chaturvimsamsas, the subject will progress with educatio n 
unhindered! Or if the Dasalord related to education is digni- 



Chapter 7 93 

fled in Chaturvimsamsa, he will confer wide learning. Similarly 
the other events be delineated accordingly. 

Slokas 6-8 need a clearer approach. Take a bhava owned 
b y a planet. If the said planet is in a malefic Shashtiamsa , 
then the bhava in question suffers a dcfecy Good and b ad 
S hashtiamsas have been specified earlier . 

Another clarification is about the lord of Shodasamsa being 
benefic. If a planet is in the Shodasamsa (Kalamsa) of a bene- 
fit, then the house owned by the first- mentioned flourishes. 
The word means “benefic” without reference to “good 

Vargas” vide sloka 52 of the previous chapter. Why the sage 
chose these exceptions is inexplicable. 

*r*i*ta t 

areicr: t 

9-12. After assessing the 20 point strength of the ascending 
degree, other houses and the planets, the good and bad efiects 
be declared. I explain below the method of knowing the Vimso- 
paka strength (20 point strength) just by knowing which an idea 
of the results of actions of this birth and of former birth will 
clearly emerge. The planets from the Sun on get full strength 
when in exaltation or in own sign and are bereft of strength when 
in the 7th (from exaltation). In between, the strength be known 
by rule of three process. In the case of a planet owning two 
signs, distinction of placement in odd/cven sign identical with 
own sign be made. 

Notes : The method of calculating Vimsopaka strength is 
given in slokas 1 7-27 of the present chapter. The sage instructs 
that this strength will be highly suggestive. 

Other sources of strength are suggested in slokas 11-16. 
These are related to assess a planet’s proper disposition. 

A planet in exaltation is fully powerful while in debilitation 
it is devoid of Vigour. If it is descending, i.e. leaving the exalt- 



94 


Brihat Parasara Iiora Sastra 


ation and transiting towards debilitation, degree by degree, its 
strength diminishes and the planet becomes fully void in the 
debilitation sign. Again when it climbs from fall to exaltation, 
gradually it gains arid becomes fully potential in exaltation. 

It is also stated that planets in own signs get full strength.* 
Here a distinction is to be noted. Male planets in male signs and 
female planets in female sings get full strength. Mars and others 
each have two signs. Mars, a male planet, in own sign if in 
Aries is better than Mars in Scorpio, a female sign. Venus in 
Taurus is better placed than in Libra. Such inference may be 
wisely made. These details are elaborately discussed in the rele- 
vant chapters in the matter of calculation of Shadbala etc. 

3 St Id I 

T*: f*T7»7* II 

* 73*77 3*s77*Tfa whnwPi WH7 Ilf *11 

VTTOvf *77*7*** f*7TT*f77: I 

fwm% *73*77 **j? 7 hii?^« 

13-16. HORA, DECANATE AND TRIM SAMS A EFFE- 
CTS : Jupiter, the Sun and Mars give (pronounced) effects in 
the hora of the Sun. The Moon, Venus and Saturn do so when 
in Moon’s hora. Mercury is effective in both the Horas. In 
the case of an even Rasi the hora of the Moon will be powerful 
in effects while the Sun’s hora in an odd sign will be so. Full, 
medium and nil will be the effects respectively in the beginning, 
middle and the end of a hora. Similar applications be made for 
a decanate, Turyamsa, Navamsa etc. As for Trimsamsa effects 
the Sun is akin to Mars and the Moon is akin to Venus. The 
effects applicable to Rasi will apply to Trimsamsa. 

Notes : The three male planets in Sun’s Hora will be reve- 
aling while Venus, Moon and Saturn are good in Moon’s Hora. 



Chapter 7 


95 


Here again. Sun’s Hora of odd signs and Moon’s Hora in even 
signs are given preference. Now from this, it emerges that Sun, 
Mars and Jupiter are highly powerful in the first half of an odd 
sign and Moon, Venus and saturn are very revealing in the 
second half of an even sign. Mercury is powerful in any Hora 
whether an odd sign or otherwise. 

The effects due to a Hora will be derived fully if the planet 
is in the first one-third part of the Hora. The effects will be 
medium or nil according to the placements being in the second 
or third part of the Hora. 

?ftT \ 

fanfares 

^ farcin: qgr Htaw ut«u 

w. HI® SET I 

FTar ^ ^ ’GWWV rTHTSH ^ ilHKIR: U'&ll 

17-19. VIMSOPAKA STRENGTH : The Shadvargas (six 
divisions) consist of Rasi, Hora, decanate, Navamsa, Dvadasa- 
msa and Trimsamsa. The full strength, for each of the divisions 
respectively are 6, 2, 4, 5, 2 and 1. This is the Vimsopaka 
strength relatihg to Shadvarga division. Adding the Sapthama- 
msa to the Shad Vargas, we get Sapta Varga, the Vimsopaka 
strength for which is : 5, 2, 3, 2{, 4i, 2 and 1. These are gross 
strengths while subtle ones should be understood by exact 
positions. 

Notes : Vimsopaka strength is the 20 point strength obta- 
ined by a planet in continuously occupying own Vargas etc. in 
the various schemes like Shad Varga to Shodasa Varga. For 
fuller appreciation, see the notes given under slokas 26-27 of the 
current chapter. 

^ n^on 

20. Add Dasamsa, Shodasamsa and Shastiamsa to the said 
Saptha Varga Divisions, to get the scheme of Dasa Varga (10 



gg Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 

divisions) The Vimsopaka strength in this context is 3 for Rasi, 

5 for Shashtiamsa and for the other 8 divisions, each. 

flrf^T'TT: TTTPnf fqjqqn: I 

qtjq fgjjrgfli get 

sprra q)s*raqfai effqrqtai qq* i 

WRRU 

q>?Tt?T^ FT wq q7?T?iqiFI q I 

q fqqq #*t: tosmiuct f|[ ‘Wi 

3T^qsJ q grot era aq i 

yjf fq^qqr fq^ft tjfq: *gnrfafqq% \\y*\\ 
faq qgarTT jftw H*r q^r srqftfaqqi 
qraTfemqt g qqfgsftqqj wt«i»wi 

21-25. When the 16 divisions (Shodasa Varga Scheme) are 
considered together, the Vimsopaka score goes thus : Hora 1 
Trimsamsa V, decanate 1, Shodasamsa 2, Navamsa 3, Rasi 3^, 

• Shashtiamsa 4, and the rest of the nine divisions each a half. 
The Vimsopaka strength remains as 20 (in the above computat- 
ions) only when the planet is in own house Vargas. Otherwise 
the total strength from 20 declines to 18 in extreme friends 
Vargas, to 15 in friendly Vargas, to 10 in equal’s divisions, to 7 
in enemy’s Vargas and to 5 in sworn enemy’s Vargas. (These 
figures are called Varga Viswa.) 

q-qfqsgt: ^qfqi^vqT: qqiqinfaqtfsraT: l 

farrqTqi^qqttq qrag> q f^u^ii 

faiqa sfaq qq 

26 - 27 . VIMSOPAKA PROPORTIONAL EVALUATION : 
Multiply the figure due to full strength for the division by the 
Varga Viswa and divide by 20 to get the exact strength of the 
planet. If the such total is below 5 the planet will not be 
capable of giving auspicious results. If it is above 5 but below 
10, the planet will yield some good effects. Later on upto 15 it 
is indicative of mediocre effect. A planet with above 15 will 
yield wholly favourable effects. 



Chapter 7 gj 

Notes ; Vimsopaka or 20 point -strength is calculated for 
Shad Varga, Saptha Varga, Dasa Varga or Shodasa Varga, which- 
ever is being considered by the astrologer. These Vargas are 
detailed in the earlier slokas. By being in own Vargas a planet 
gets full points of strength allotted to it in the concerned scheme'. 
These are tabulated below for easy grasp : 


Varga 

Shad 

Varga 

Saptha 

Varga 

Dasa 

Varga 

Shodasa 

Varga 

Rasi 

6 

5.0 

. / 

' 3.0 

3.5 

Hora 

2 

2.0 

1.5 

1.0 

Drekkana 

4 

3.0 

1.5 

1.0 

Navamsa 

5 

2.5 

1.5 

3.0 

Dvadasamsa 

2 

4.5 

1.5 

0.5 

Trimsamsa 

1 

2.0 

.1.5 

1.0 

Saptamsa 

— 

1.0 

1.5 

0.5 

Dasamsa 

— 


•1.5 

0:5 

Kalamsa 

— 

— 

1.5 

2.0 

Shastiamsa 

— 

— 

5.0 

4.0 

Vimsamsa 

— 

— 

— 

0.5 

Chatur Vimsamsa 

— 

— 

— 

0.5 

Bhamsa 

— 

— 

— 

0.5 

Turyamsa 

— 

— 

— 

0.5 

Khavedamsa 

— 

— 

— 

0.5 

Akshavedamsa 

— 

■ __ 

— ' 

0.5 

Total 

' 20 

20.0 

20.0 

20.0 


98 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


The figure against each individual division is called 
“Swaviswa". For example, in Rasi Division under Shodasa 
Varga, you find 3.5 which is the Swaviswa. 

Varga Viswa is the total strength as shown in sloka 25 for 
the various dignities like placement in own house, extreme 
friend’s house etc. 

If a planet is continuously in own Vargas in the whole 
of Shad Varga scheme or any other, it gets all the 20 points 
or full of Vimsopaka strength. This is always not possible. By 
virtue of a placement in other than own house, the points 
diminish. In this context, Panchadha Sambandha or compound 
relationship is to be considered, as learnt by us from slokas 57- 
58 of ch. 3, supra. 

To arrive at the net Vimsopaka, note the following 
formula : 

Swaviswa X Varga Viswa 
20 

Now see the following horoscope of a native born 'em 
17-2-1984 at 2235 hrs. 1ST at New Delhi. 




Rahu 


Sun 

, 



Venus 

Mercury 

Moon 

Jup 

Ketu 

Lag 

Sat 

Mars 









Chapter 7 


99 


Let us consider the Vimsopaka strength for the ascendant 
lord Venus. His Varga dignities and his relationship with each 
of the Varga Lords is noted simultaneously along with Vims- 
opaka. The longitude ,of Venus is 9s 4° 32' 30". 


Division 

occupation 

Lord 

Relationship 

SV VV vs 

Rfisi 

Capricorn 

Sat. 

Adhimitra 

6 

18 

5.4 

Horn 

Cancer 

Moon 

Adhisatru 

2 

5 

0.5 

Drekkana 

Capricorn 

Sat. 

Adhimitra 

4 

18 

3.6 

Navamsa 

Aquarius 

Sat. 

Adhimitra 

5 

18 

4.5 

Dvadasamsa 

Aquarius 

Sat. 

Adhimitra 

2 

18 

1.8 

Trimsamsa 

Taurus 

Ven. 

Own 

1 

20 

1.0 


In the above table, SV=Swavisva, VV=Varga Vlswaand 
VS— Vimsopaka strength. 

The rest of the points will be clear to the reader from the 
above calculations. And the Vimsopaka strengths be estimated 
accordingly. 

Maharshi Parasara fixes broad guidelines to know the use 
of this strength as under : 

5 points : Inauspicious results (or neutralisation 
of good effects) 

5-10 points Some good effects 

10-15 points : Mediocre effects 

15-20 points : Wholly favourable effects. 

In our example, Venus gets 16.8 points and hence he should 
confer wholly favourable effects when Shad Varga scheme is 
considered. I would, however, prefer use of all the 16 Vargas 
for a truer picture. 

Minute evaluations of Vimsopaka are given on p. 101 for 
a better understanding. 

sruTSrmfa f femru i 

yfavi 35: f*3rTT: IRqll 

fq'JiinUiri ^4 I 

*T6lTayucnri {£^4*1 Hdfa Hi") 44N i : ll^ll 

28-29. OTHER SOURCES OF STRENGTH ; Maitreya, 
there are other kinds of sources as I explain below. Planets 
in the 7th from the Sun will be fully effective. One with an 



' 100 


Brihat Parasara Hera Sastra 


identical longitude in comparison to the Sun’s will destroy the 
good effects. Rule of three process be applied to the planet in 
between these positions. 

Notes : A planet away from the Sun is immune to loss of 
rays, and can express itself fully. This need not be literally 
misinterpreted that the one not being in the 7th from the Sun 
will be ineffective. For example, we have Ubhayachari and 
other yogas in which case, a planet other than the Moon is 
related to the Sun by close positions. This does not mean that 
these yogas will not fructify. If a planet is eclipsed in the Sun, 
it proves impotent. This applies to Venus and Saturn as well, 
against the common belief that these two do not lose rays even 
if combust and hence are free from Astangata dosha. This 
suggestion is only for Ayurdaya calculations and rectifications 
of planetary rays (or Graha Kiranas). Please see the following 
table for degrees of combustion. 


Planet 

Combustion In direct 
motion 

Combustion in (R) 
motion 

Moon 

12° 

— 

Mara 

17° \ 

8° 

Mercury 

. 14° 

12° 

Jupiter 

l? a 

ir 

Venus 

10° 

8° 

Saturn 

16 c 

16° 


Rahu and Ketu should not be treated as combust although 
they may be longitudinally close to the Sun. For they are only 
mathematical points. On the contrary, they eclipse or obstruct 
the Sun. A basic phenomenon in combustion is the planet 
combust does not heliacally rise during the period of combustion 
but is set. 

^ erpfrci iv^oh 

^ 113 {U 

ffifagW WT5T HJcTR I 

tnww fr w 



Chapter 7 


101 


30-32. DAS A EFFECTS WITH VIMSOPAKA STRE- 
NGTH : Maitreya, after assessing the Vimsopaka strength thro- 
ugh the various divisions, the rising and setting of the planets be 
considered. The Vimsopaka strength is classified as unaer : 
Poorna, Atipooma, Madhya, Atimadhya, rteena, Atiheena, 
Swalpa and Atiswalpa, Thus should be classified the Vimsopaka 
strength and the Dasa period results declared accordingly. 

Notes : The sage uses 8 distinct terms to classify the effects 
of Vimsopaka strength. I have used ihe Same original terms for 
the sake of identity while the table given below with percentages 
of effects due to the various gTades will enlighten the student as 
to what these terms imply. 


Grade 

Atipoorna 

Poorna 

Atimadhya 

Madhya 

Swalpa 

Atiswalpa 

Heena 

Atiheena 


Vimsopaka points Beneficial effects doe 


17.5 

to 

20.0 

87.5- 

-100% 

15.0 

to 

17.5 

75.0—87.5% 

12.5 

to 

15.0 

62.5- 

-75.0% 

10.0 

to 

12.5 

50.0- 

-62.5% 

7.5 

to 

10.0 

37.5- 

-50.0% 

5.0 

to 

7.5 

25.0- 

-37.5% 

2.5 

to 

5.0 

12.5— 25.0% 

0 

to 

2.5 

0—12.5% 


The percentages given by me are numerical assignments for 
a comparative study so that an idea is gained of the gradations 
originally suggested. 


sr«f i 

113x11 

^sn^tRTTwffnr fVmmuuk f?ru^u 


102 


Brihat Parasara Hot a Sastra 

33-36. ANGLES, TRINES ETC. DEFINED : O Maitreya, 
listen to other matters which 1 am explaining. The Kendras 
(angles) are specially known as ascendant, the 4th house the 
descendant and the mid-heaven (the 10th house). The 2nd, 
5th, 8th and the 11th are Panapharas or succedents while the 3rd, 
6th, 9th and the 12th are called Apoklimas or cadents. The 5th 
and 9th from the ascendant are known by the name Kona or 
trine. Evil houses or Trika houses are the 6th, 8th and the 
12th. Chaturasras are the 4th and 8th- The 3rd, 6th, 10th and 
1 1th houses are Upachaya. 

Notes : The 12 houses including the ascendant are classi- 
fied into various groups which are as under : 

Kendras or angles : Ascendant 4th, 7th and 10th 

Panapharas or Succedents : 2nd, 5th, 8th and 11th 
Apoklimas or Cadents : 3rd, 6th, 9th and 12th 
Konas or Trines '• 5th and 9th 

Trikas or evil houses : 6th, 8th and 12th 

Chaturasras *> 4th and 8th 

Upachayas ; 3rd, 6th, 10th and 11th. 

37-38. NAMES OF BHA VAS : The 12 houses are : Thanu, 
Dhana, Sahaja, Bandbu, Putra, Ari (srfc), Yuvati, Randhra, 
Dharma, Karma, Laabha and Vyaya are in order the names 
of houses. 1 explained these briefly and leave it to you to grasp 
more according to your intelligece. As delivered by Lord 
Brahma, some further information is added thus (i.e. in the 
following verses). 

Notes : Each house is given a special name for easy 
identity. The indications are known thus : 

Thanu : physique 

Dhana : wealth 

Sahaja : younger brpther/sister 



Chapter 1 


Bandhu 

: relatives 

Putra 

: progeny 

Ari 

; enemies 

Yuvati 

: wife 

Randhra 

: longevity 

Dharma 

: religion 

Karma 

: acts (or livelihood) 

Laabha 

: gains 

Vyaya 

: expenditure 


■‘‘baadhra’* actually means a vulnerable or assailable point 
A planet in the 8th becomes vulnerably placed. The various 
houses in a nativity are related to various spheres of life. Ch. 1 1 
deals with the houses in this context. 

fagsrf* \ 

ufojiw * m \ 

*1M1^ ?T?^ilin(a^Sf»a5IM I 

^otct md u*?u 

3**iT ^ grt: 5^, 5TRWT: flWt: I 

SftzqCT cqtppnfq qTTPtJfjft f^TT U 
tl^T^rac^H fare*I JRt^rRT?^* f^: I 
Were* qjtfcTfe 5T?T faired 

39-43, INDICATIONS FROM HOUSES : The 9th from 
^he ascendant and the 9th from the Sun deal with one’s father. 
Whatever effects are to be known from the 10th and 11th 
counted from ascendant be also known- from similar houses 
counted from the Sun. Whatever results are to be known from 
the 4th, 1st, 2nd, 11th and the 9th should also be known from 
the 4th of the Moon, from the Moon sign itself and 2nd, 1 1th 
and 9th from the Moon respectively. Whatever has to be known 
through the 3rd from the ascendant be also analysed through the 
3rd from Mars. The 6th from Mercury be also considered in . 



104 ' ferihat Parasara ft or a Sastrd 

regard to indications derivable from the 6th counted from 
the ascendant. The 5th fr om Jupit er, theJ7tkJl©m_Vcnufi.and 
both the 8th and~l25 Tfrpm Saturn stand for consideration 
re soectivefvln resppet of offspring, sp ouse and death. The lord 
of fee Bhava is equally important when estimating the indications 
of a particular Bhava (house). 

Notes : We get important clues from the above five verses. 

It is, not enough if the house concerned as counted from 
the ascendant is strong and well disposed for the prosperity of 
the house. Such a bouse from the signifying planet should also 
be strong. For example, one will enjoy paternal happiness if the 
9th from the ascendant and the 9th- from the Sun are both well 
disposed. The 9th from the Sun if occupied by a debilitated 
planet or if the 9th lord from the Sun is weak, then the good 
indications through Pitro Bhava are neutralized. Now see &■ 
gist of the slokas : 

* (a) Father to be considered from the 9th both from the 

Sun and Lagna. 

(b) 10th from Lagna to be correlated with the 10th from 
the Sun— for patrimony, paternal rites etc. 

(c) 1 1 th from Lagna to be correlated with the 11th from 
the Sun for gains (and for father’s longevity— as the 1 1th |s the 
3rd from the 9th.) 

(d) The 4th from the Lagna and from the Moon are 
related to mother. 

(0) The ascendant and the Moon sign relate the physical 
felicity of the native, and general strength of the radix- 

(f ) The 2nd from the ascendant and from the Moon be 
investigated about one’s sight, speech, learning, wealth etc. 

(g) The 11th from ascendant and from Moon for gains, 
elder brothers, friends etc. 

(h) The 9th from ascendant and from the Moon for 
general fortunes, religion, meritorious activities etc. 

(1) The 3rd from Mars and from the ascendant be seen for 
coborn, courage etc. 

(j) The 6th from ascendant and from Mercury for 
diseases, debts, enemies, cousins and the like. 

(k) The 5th from the ascendant and from Jupiter for 
obtainment of progeny, their well being, their prosperity etc. 


Chapter 8 IU \ 

(For a female the 9th from Lagha and from Jupiter in connec- 
tion with children are to be scrutinized.) 

(l) The 7th from Lagna and from Venus for marriage, its 

nature, consequences, duration etc. 

(m) Both the 8th and 1 2th . from both the Lagna -and 

Saturn for death. 

From this it will be seen that each of the 12 houses is 
related to some specific planet apart from the ascendant. These 
rules are very highly suggestive. 


3t«t llsll 

C 

Chapter 8 

Aspects Of The Signs 

aw H mft c ro tat wnfRi 'jsw « 

q ftZW f SW*nf*l % T ,1 J I 

tnwt s fi wg fa* ! sw? i 

tpqT 

fwfiTss^n^ < 

qfetTHT nm¥rT«TTU^l 

1-3. SIGN ASPECTS : O Maitreya, now detailed are the 
aspects emanating from the signs Aries etc. Every movable 
sign aspects the 3 fixed signs leaving the fixed sign adjacent to 
it. Every fixed sign lends aspect to the 3 movable signs barring 
the adjacent movable sign. And a common sign aspects the 
other three common signs. The planet in a sign lends the same 
aspect as the sign (in which the planet is) does. 

Notes : Apart from usual aspects of planets, Maharshi 
Parasara deals with Rasi aspects or sign aspects. These are also 
used by sage Jaimini fa discipie of Vedavyasa and author of 
Poorva Meemamsa etc.) and this system came to be known as 
Jaimini system though the original propounder is Parasara. 



106 


Brifiat Parasara Hora Sastfa . 


Jaimini Maharshi is also an equally worshipped authority on 
astrology. He mainly uses Rasi aspects, Rasi Dasas apart from 
many other Dasas, Arudha Pada, Atma Karaka etc. by long- 
itudes, Karakamsa etc. 

The current 3 slokas throw light on the sign aspects. Each 
ipovable Rasi aspects 3 fixed signs, leaving the nearest fixed sign. 
For example, Aries — movable sign- — does not aspect Taurus but 
Leo, Scorpio and Aquarius. Taurus— a fixed sign aspects 

3 movable signs, viz. Cancer, Libra and Capricorn but does 
not aspect Aries, the nearest movable sign. Gemini’s aspects 
are on Virgo, Sagittarius and Pisces. The planet in assign 
aspects similar signs as above and also the occupant thereof. 
Hence, in these aspects, longitudes of the aspector and the 
aspected are ignorable. 

The following table will represent the aspects detailed 
above : 


Sign/oecupant 

aspecting 

Sign/occupant 

aspected 

Aries 

Leo, Scorpio and Aquarius 

Taurus 

Cancer, Libra and Capricorn 

Gemini 

Virgo, Sagittarius and Pisces 

Cancer 

Scorpio, Aquarius and Taurus 

I.eo 

Libra, Capricorn and Aries 

Virgo 

Sagittarius, Pisces and Gemini 

Libra 

Aquarius, Taurus and Leo 

Scorpio 

Capricorn, Aries and Cancer 

Sagittarius 

Pisces, Gemini and Virgo 

Capricorn 

Taurus, Leo and Scorpio 

Aquarius 

Aries, Cancer aud Libra 

Pisces 

Gemini, Virgo and Sagittarius 





Chapter 8 107 

nr* * 

feqhi ^ qrofcr ^#?raRiwn 

fltlferT 'TWP^WWft^rTR I 
faqfET*f ftRT ^?v: q W t fc qBPTTnR: UV.U 

4-5. PLANETARY ASPECTS : A planet in a movable 
sign aspects the other 3 fixed signs leaving the fixed sign 
next to it. A planet in a fixed sign does not aspect the next 
movable sign but the remaining 3 movable signs. The one in 
a common sign throws aspect over the remaining 3 common 
signs. Simultaneously a planet in the aspected sign is also 
subjected to the aspect concerned. 

Notes : The idea conveyed in the two verses can be well 
conceived from the notes given for the first three slokas above. 
With the help of these five slokas, one can deduce the following 
from the horoscope given as example below : 



Mars 

Ven 

Sun 

Lagna 

Merc 

Ketu 

Rasi 

Jup 


Sat 

Rahu 


Moon 




(a) Mars aspects Saturn, Moon and the nodes. 

(b) Venus, the Sun and Mercury aspect none. 

(c) Jupiter aspects the Moon, Ketu, Sun and Venus. 

(d) Saturn and Rahu aspect Mars. 







brihat Parasara tiora Sastrct 

(e) Moon aspects Mars and Jupiter. 

(f) Ketu aspects Mars and Jupiter. 

In the above, we considered only planet to planet aspect 
so that we know the difference between this system, of aspects 
and the usual one. 

Hit'll ST^na^U^tt 

snfa i 

fasr ! ^ n\sn 

f vr— rT ftpjHI qrqsq Vfiwf fT«n i 
*re£?qi ^TTtnf^q W«f f?P#rT licit 

^ ^^J^TT^TT €TT < 

qfq^Fqsf 115.11 

6-9. ASPECTUAL, DIAGRAM ; As depicted by Lord 
Brahma, I now narrate the aspectual diagram so that aspects are 
easily understood by a mere sight of the diagram. Draw a 
square or a circle marking the 8 directions (4 corners arid 4 
quarters thereof). Mark the zodiacal signs as under : Aries 
and Taurus in east, Gemini in the north-east. Cancer and Leo 
in the north, Virgo in the north-west, Libra and Scorpio in 
the west, Sagittarius in the south-west, Capricorn and Aquarius 
in the south, and Pisces in the south-east. The aspects (as per 
the earlier slokas) can be shown in a square diagram or circular 
diagram (as per convenience). 



sPTlftssTsnPT: llfcll 


Chapter 9 

Evils At Birth 

arraV sTfirr^Tt <%sr ! f^rrsfro \ 

3ttcwrt <f?t ti;n 

1. O Brahmin, first of all, estimate the evil6 and checking 
factors thereof through the ascendant and then declare the 
effects of the 12 bhavas. 

Notes : The ascendant is the most important in the matter 
of causing eVils or counteracting evils till a native is 32. Hence, 
the sage refers to the ascendant specifically in the matter of 
Balarishta or infant mortality and cautions (in the next sloka) 
that upto the age of 24, no definite assurances about longevity 
be made. 

The Moon becomes important in the matter of evils and 
checking factors for longevity from the age of 32 upto 64th year. 
And the Sun is the centre in this respect from the age of 64,' 
This does not mean that the evils from the Moon do not operate 

till the 32nd year of age, and so on and so forth. 

2. Evils causing premature end exist upto the 24th year 
of one’s age. As such, no definite calculation of life span should 
be made till such year of age. 

Notes : While the sage declares that upto the 24th year, it 
will not be possible to declare definitely in the matter of longe- 
vity. Other works like Horasara, Jyotisharnava Navaneethamu 
(Telugu version), Sarvarfha Chlntamani, Jatbaka Parijatha 
Phala Deepika etc. say that longevity calculations will be futile 
till the 12th year of age. 



110 


Brlhat Parasara Hora Sastra 


4tZw utfsitT: i 

*HcflFU *J?UU: ^refacT: \\\U 

frfiWFRf^i: ?ft«Tnr#5^T: URUtfWTT: i 

ftrcftuftm imi 

®RU 5T?ufa EfaqT: UUWf^$UTUaT: I 

itft umr srf^ft u wim <u faau uv.ii 
ufafarut «[?ft u>ut u»uut u nute i 
ijnj^c^H^Isfa ulTUIUTO UT UU: ll^ll 

3-6. SHORT-LIFE COMBINATIONS (upto sloka 23) : 
Should the Moon be in the 6th, 8th, or the 12th from the 
ascendant and be in aspect to a malefic, the child will die soon. 
If in the process there be a benefic's aspect, it may live upto 8. 
If a beneflc is retrograde in the 6th, 8th or the 12th being in 
aspect to a malefic, death will occur within a month of birth. 
This is true only when the ascendant is unoccupied by a benefic. 
Should the 5th be occupied by Saturn, Mars and the Sun jointly, 
(early) death of mother and brother will come to pass. Mars 
placed in the ascendant or in the 8th and be conjunct Saturn or 
Sun or be in aspect to a malefic, being bereft of benefic aspect 
will prove a source of (immediate) death. 

Notes : Here a pertinent query may emerge as to why the 
sage mentions combinations for premature death while longevity 
cannot be decidedly declared upto the 24th year of age as per 
his own statement. These yogas will guide us to detect the 
immediate defects for longevity and resort to remedial measures 
like fire sacrifice, prayers, donations, medicine etc. and save the 
from Akala Mrity.u or premature death, vide ch. 5 of Horasara. 

The Moon in an evil house at birth and in aspect to a 
malefic will cause early death. Even a benqfic’s aspect on the 
Moon, in the said Yoga, will cause the end at the age of 8, 
suggests the sage. If she is increasing, this need not be feared 

Ufa I 

tffauWwi W* Wfat U sffafa HV»U 
fcuH: Hlfa: tpmfafa: I 

fisrfau: uurrcufa ^ urn frnrftiusit 



Ill 


Chapter 9 

*ra*rcg*r* fto =rf^ i 

«fta: *r *Tfa m*ihP<4<h util 
fftoroi i 

tT y p iw y?: *T*to * U?oH 

«** ?f* *$T to: I 

fajfa M i mafd *r *r^6ito 

7-11. If Saturn and Mars aspect the ascendant as the 
luminaries join Rahu (elsewhere), the child will live only for a 
fortnight. Immediate death of the child along with its mother 
will occur if Saturn is in the 10th, the Moon in the 6th and 
Mars in the 7th. One will immediately go to the abode of Yama 
(the Hindu god of death) if Saturn is in the ascendant while the 
Moon and Jupiter are in their order in the 8th and the 3rd. 
Only a month will be the span of one’s life who has the Sun in 
the 9th, Mars in the 7tha nd Jupiter and Venus in the 1 1th. All 
planets (i.e. any planet) in the 12th will be source of short life, 
specifically the luminaries, Venus and Rahu. But the aspect of 
one of these four planets (on the 1 2th) will counteract such 
evils. 

Notes : One of the 4 planets among the Sun, Moon, Rahu 
and Venus in the 12th will contribute to premature end. If there 
is aspect of one of these on the 12th, the evils for premaiure 
death are checked. (This goes to prove that Rahu has aspects.) 
The Su n, however, in the^ l 2th for Libra ascendant will confer a 
life sp an of 100 years, vide sloka 16, ch To, in fra 

qunfto: a* afsn 

STM TOW ftmt: 

12. The Moon is capable of causing early end if she is 
with a malefic in the 8th, 7th or the ascendant and unrelated to 
a benefic. 

into* ton* * i 
*r*«p ^nnt: wifswwn 

13. Early death will come to pass if there be a birth in the 
morning or evening junctions or in a hora ruled by the Moon 



112 ■ Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 

or in Gandanta while the Moon and malefics occupy angles from 
the ascendant- 

Notes : There are three yogas denoted for premature 
death : 

(a) Birth in Sandhya (as defined in the next sloka). 
t/ (b) Birth (i e. asendant) in a Hora ruled by the Moon. 
(For Hora, see slokas 5-6, ch. 6.) 

^ (c) Birth in Gandanta. 

Tn each of the three yogas, it is a prerequisite that the 
angles from the ascendant be captured by the Moon and malefics. 

Ganaanta : The last Navamsas of Cancer, of Scorpio and 
of Pisces are called as Gandanta. According to a host of 
authors, mere Gandanta Lagna or the Moon in Gandanta will 
cause premature death, 

W* HEBI fBBTfW 1 

ppqtrnsktTTB STB: faBlfoVT «»?*!» 

14. DEFINITION OF SANDHYA : 3 Ghatikas before 
the sight of the semi disc (half ) of the rising Sun and a similar 
duration following the Sun set are called as morning twilight 
and evening twilight, respectively. 

Notes : Morning twilight (or Pratah Sandhya) lasts for 
72 minutes in the morning oefore the sight of the Sun’s disc 
(locally) and evening twilight for a similar duration after the Sun 
set. This definition of Sandhya by the sage is for deciding evils 
to longevity in childhood. 

In the context of Kala Dasa, Sandhya is defined differently 
by the sage, obviously with a purpose, vide ch. 46 of Vol. II. 

faER BlfB BTSBVTBt faBTTBl 

15. EARLY DEATH : Should all the malefics be in the 
oriental half while benefics are in the occidental half, early death 
of one born in Scorpio will follow. In this case there is no 
need of any rethinking. 

Notes : The area of the horoscope from the 4th cusp to 
the 10th cusp via the 7th house is known as occidental (or 
western) half while the rest half is oriental for eastern) half. 



Chapter 9 1 *3 

One born in Scorpio ascendant with malefics in the 
oriental half and bhenfics in the occidental half will face imme- 
diate death. This yoga is called as Vajra Mushti yoga by 
Yavanacharyas. as quoted by Kalyana Varma. The Moon 
should be in the occidental half if she is a betysfic or be in the 
.oriental half if she is a malefic. If Mercury remains unafflicted, 
by a malefic, this yoga will not come to pass. 

16. Malefics in the 12th and the 6th, or in the 8th and the 
2nd while the ascendant is hemmed between other malefics will 
bring early death. 

'TT*T> f 

q*T sn%f%Tcf: tl^U 

17. Malefics occupying the ascendant and the 7th while 
the Moon is conjunct a malefic with no relief from a benefic will 
also cause premature death. 

H> sntft faro I ?T mw: lifcU 

18. Early death will be inflicted on the native if decreasing 
Moon is in the ascendant while malefics capture the 8th and an 
angle. There is no doubt about that. 

afiTwriftnHWi: i 
tft «n?f: s Iifm*tT<rniv£u 

c ■* « * 

19. The Moon in the ascendant, 8th, 12th or the 7th and 
hemmed between malefics will confer premature death. 

^ TO: ftm: IRoU 

20. Should the Moon be in the ascendant hemmed between 
two malefics while the 7th or the 8th has a malefic in it, the 
child will face immediate death along with its mother. 



114 


Brihat Parasara Hora S astro 


w4^'hfEt*TT»h| lit 3ffiit fatRiTcT: h^M 

21. Should Saturn, the Sun and Mars be in the 12th, 9th 
and 8th without benefic’s aspect, the child will face instant 
death. 


xf mf*T^ ITFT fHl^l^t | 

22. With a malefic in the 7th house or in the rising 
decanate while decreasing Moon is in the ascendant, death will 
be experienced early. 

qWTCT qT f^TTfT qT dWW: Hq *1$?^ II ^ 3 II 

23. The life span of the child will be either 2 months or 
6 months only, if all planets devoid of strength are relegated to 
Apoklima houses (i.e. 3rd, 6th, 9th and 12th.) 

ftrfq: «Hqq$ : SP3*TT lift 1 

irnprmt q%riiq q%q ii^yii 

24. EVILS TO MOTHER ( upto sloka 33) : The mother 
Of the native will incur evils (will die soon) if the Moon at birth 
is aspected by three malefics. Benefics aspecting the Moon will 
bring good to the mother. 

10% Ttgtfsi: ip: «tft: *nif q^T faq: I 

cfFI fatlft ismift 11^ SOI 

25. Should the 2nd be occupied by Rahu, Mercury, Venus, 
Sun and Saturn the child’s birth has been after its father’s death 
while even the mother will face early death. 

qftrfa: 5IRT1 qqfa HRJ^TU^^U 

26. If the Moon is in the 7th/8th from a malefic, be her- 
self with a malefic, and be aspected by a strong malefic, predict 
mother’s end to be early. 



Chapter 9 115 

*rm sfarcu: tfwrrqt cmrfa: i 

qrrf^Ht anrrart<»T sftafa \\^m 

27. The child will not live on mother’s milk but on that of 
a she-goat if the Sun is exalted or debilitated in the 7th. 

Notes : For an Aries native, if the Sim is in the 7th in 
debilitation, or in the 7th in exaltation for a Libra native* it 
deprives one of mother’s milk. The 7th rules the 4th from the 
4th and hence the 7th is referred to, 

Saturn in the 4th house will al?o deprive one of mother’s 

milk. 

Atmakaraka in Scorpio Navamsa will produce similar 
effects. For a definition of Atmakaraka, see ch. 32, infra. 

Tpft tnr 

fqfa faiqfa ipit IRftll 

28. Should a malefic be in the 4th, identical with an inimi- 
cal sign, counted from the Moon while there is no benefic in an 
angle, the child will lose its mother in a premature manner. 

JTTST IRT , I 

29. Malefics in the 6th and 12th will bring>evils to mother. 
The child’s father will receive similar effects If the 4th and 10th 
are captured by malefics. 

%x\ unit * 1 

C\ *N 

VK: qfLqKWWT: ll^oll 

30. Mercury in the 2nd while malefics occupy the ascend- 
ant, 7th and 12th : this yoga will destroy the entire family. 

^ TTTTFFTT d^hl »T ll^ll 

31. Jupiter, Saturn and Rahu respectively posited in the 
ascendant, 2nd and 3rd will cause mother’s death early. 



116 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


*rrcn»ifaq$iwwf <namrr^r n Ann: h^h 

32. Doubtlessly the mother will give up the ^hild if it has 
matches in trines counted from the decreasing Moon. No benefic 
shall be in conjunction with the said malefics. 

^Invent mr jrt i 

nfnfcnr»nft nt flrr fg^rjwrf ;r afhrfan^u 

33. If Mars and Saturn are together in an angle with 
reference to the Moon and occupy one and the same Navamsa, 
the child will have two mothers. Yet it will be short-lived. 

nnft niturt a \ 

sfn pfpr fannwn sfafn n^vn 

34. EVILS TO FATHER ( upto sloka 42) : One’s father 
will incur early death if Saturn, Mars and the Moon in tbeir 
order are in the ascendant, the 7th and the 6th. 

fan 5 Any nw itaw fwy<3 fan ii^xti 

35. The native will at the time of his marriage lose his 
father if Jupiter is in the ascendant while Saturn, Sun, Mars and 
Mercury are together in the 2nd. 

t ifaf wwl |nm yrontun: i 
n^nm: wcflfi fajytrt n^u 

36. Early loss of father will take place if the Sun is with a 
malefic or is hemmed between malefics as there is another malefic 
in the 7th from the Sun. 

IJtf: ffJTFht IjfaFIA: | 

a fan Vt&T 

37. Remote will be the possibility of one’s father sustaining 
if the Sun is in the 7th while Mars is in the 10th and Rahu is in 
the 12th. 



Chapter 9 til 

mn hTh: \ 

f*m SCFf 3TTWPI facTT *fcl‘ H 

38. Early and doubtless will be one’s father's death if 
Mars is in the lOkh identical with his enemy’s sign. 

Notes : Mercury is the sole enemy of Mars, vide ch. 3, 
verso SS. Mercury’s camps are Gemini and Virgo. Hence, for a 
Sagittarius native or for a Virgo native, Mars in the lOih (alone) 
will cause early death of father. 

farff aw *r afafallHU 

39 . The Moon in the 6 th, Saturn in the ascendant and 
Mars in tjfee 7t^ : this array of heavenly bodies at birth will not 
ensure a long span of life for the father. 

Hpft sifRRT h foftfeR# \ 
g mreHft PlT^H^fsfa faw: U* °U 

40. If the Sun is aspected by Saturn and be in Aries/Scor- 
pio Navkmsa, the father would have given up the family before 
the birth of the child or would have passed away. 

f flit Rltf JTOti H HRI fFRrft I 
fq^r hi ar 5<Tr frmfmHTT hSrt n*tn 

41. If the 4th, 10th and 12th are all occupied by matches, 
both the parents \vilj leave the child to its own fate and wander 
from place to place. 

Notes : Also see sloka 8 , ch. 10 infra. 

HISH 1 

42. The father will not see the native ti|i his (the native’s) 
23rd year if Rabu and Jupiter are together in an inimical sign 
identical with the ascendant or the 4th. 

Notes : The inimical signs for Jupiter are that of Mercury 
and Venus. Rahu is inimically placed in Cancer, Leo, Aries and 
Scorpio. Jupiter is friendly in these signs. It is hence implied 



U" Brihat Parasara Hota Sastra 

that these two should join in obe of these signs as 4th or the 
10th so that the father cannot see the native till the latter 
is 23. 

However, the rule needs a cautious approach in view of the 
clash between inimical places for the two plahets. Mercury is 
Rahu’s neutral. Hence if Mercury is temporarily inimical for 
Rnhu, then Rahu’s placement (along with Jupiter) in Gemini or 
Virgo as the 4th or the ascendant will cause the event. In other 
cases, this will have to be wisely interpreted. 

Wig: fam Wt RTcTT ^ 1 

qn^fe^riV *ng; qmtamritafq 

fqqfriy fa r ftqdq I 

HFrt: wwww: qri: rita qrfiwfi rri: \ 
gsnnqqriqfsfq frofr^r frifrifaria iivvn 
t?q frqri: toMfl qjtri \ 

qs^ qt HVltll 

43-45. PARENTS : The Sun is 4J*e indicator of father for 
all beings while the mother is indicated by the Moon. Should 
the Sun be aspected by malefics or be hemmed between them 
will cause evils to father. Similarly the l^foon be considered in 
respect of mother. Malefics in the 6ih, 8th or 4th from the Sun 
will brfyg inauspicious results about the father. Malefics in such 
places from the Moon will be adverse for the mother. The 
strength or otherwise of the occupants concerned be suitably 
estimated. 


ll?°u 

Chapter 10 

Antidotes For Evils 

jjqfw hri sitas q>*ari \ 

qil HRTrftari 5 TTcTRt f^nrsfreri Ilf 11 



Chapter 10 119 

1, Those are the evils (due to a native). I now narrate the 
antidotes for such evils as jvell, which will be helpful to assess 
the extent of inauspiciousness. 

Notes : The antidotes mentioned here are in the context 
of short life. While some may carry with them the concept of 
fortunate yogas, every principle does not. 

qibfo aft t 

siftcs fafttsi fafa* srrcqJTt w irii 

< 2. Should one among Mercury, Jupiter and Venus be in 
an angle from the ascendant, all evils are destroyed as the Sun 
eliminates darkness. 

tTSfj ftceaoaa i 

ifa qma wn smm s* iru 

3. Just as a single reverential obeisance before Lord Siva, 
the Trident holder, frees one from all sins, a single but strong 
Jupiter in the ascendant will waTd off all the evils. 

Notes : In the case of Capricorn ascendant, Jupiter therein 
should be exceedingly strong by other virtues, as otherwise 
he can lead to short-life. For, sage Bhrigu specifically hints at 
Madhyayu or medium span of life with Jupiter in the ascendant 
identical with debilitation or inimical sign or malefic’s sign. 

q* OrTTfftcT: | 

ftftlH faoret qOT II VII 

4. The ascendant lord is singly capable of counteracting 
all evils if be is strongly placed in an angle just as Lord Siva, 
the bolder of Bow, destroyed the three cities (built of gold, 
silver and Iron by Maya for the demons). 

sr<n3F*T aV a fo ftftra i 
ftqffet tfwm iik.ii 

5. All evils are destroyed if a benefic aspects the ascendant 
of one bom during night in the bright half. Similarly, a malefic’s 
aspect on tbc ascendant of one bora during day time in the dark 
half. 



120 


Brihat Parasara Mora Sastra 

Notes : The second statement does not imply evils to 
longevity if a benefic aspects the ascendant for a day-birth in 
Krishna Paksha (or dark-half). That is howevbr not enough', if 
exists, but a malefio’s aspect is required. 

to ^ sroh 

6. The Sun in the 12th will confer a hundred-year life span 
on one bom in Libra ascendant. 

to 

^ IIVSII 

7. It will prove auspicious for the mother as well as the 
native if Mars joins or is aspected by Jupiter. 

•TFT: *ftrn*rs$ qqr I 

f^: *nfr: Vfjf5Wt«t*T: llsll 

8. Though raalefics in the 4th/10th are a source of evil for 
the father, they turn auspicious if hemmed by benefics or if 
benefics are in trines or in angles. 

JTnfR^sf^cjr q {|£|| 

9. If malefics are surrounded by benefics while angles/ 
trmes are themselves benefic-occupied evils disappear soon Not 
only this, evils will not follow from the bhavas concerned 


arq mqf?nN>THroi: a??n 

Chatter 11 

Judgement of Houses 

TO | 

TOM TO fa fa fTOqfald ? qq )|?|| 



Chapter II 


Hi 

1 . O sage, I have come to know of the evils and antidotes 
thereof as well from you. Please tell me, what is to be deduced 
from each housB, 

*5 ^ ’tsr «i?nsef*u 

gw fprounfofaiihi ik^u 

2. INDICATIONS OF THE FIRST HOUSE : (The sage 
replies) : physique, appearance, intellect (or the organ of intelli- 
gence, i.e. brain), complexion of the body, vigour, weakness, 
happiness, grief and innate nature are all to be guessed through 

the ascending sign. 

Notes : We ar tersely told here of the prime indications to 
be deduced from each house. There are many matters related to 
each home which I have listed rather exhaustively in my English 
translation of Horasara, See pp 183-187 ibid. 

11311 

3. SECOND HOUSE : Wealth, grains (food etc.), family, 
death, enemies, metals, precious stones etc. arc to be understood 
through the 2nd bouse. 

fipfNf »re*r iftwrrs 1 * fartwfcj tmi 

, 4. THIRD HOUSE : From the 3rd house, know of the 
following : tilour, Servants (attendants etc.), brothers, sisters etc. 
Initiatory instrucitons (-J^r), journey, and parent’s death. 

5. FOURTH HOUSE : Conveyances, relatives, mother, 
happiness, treasure, lands and houses are to be consulted through 
the 4th house. 

frqr fawt 1 

q?rmtn^ h^u 



122 


Brihat Parasara If ora Sastrti 


6. FIFTH HOUSE : The learned should deduce from the 
5th house amulets, sacred spells, learning, knowledge, sons, 
royalty (or authority), fall of position etc. 

wrwhrRri *Tfa ii^ii 

7. SIXTH HOUSE : Maternal uncle, doubts about death, 
enemies, ulcers, step mother etc. are to be estimated from the 
6th house. 

8. SEVENTH HOUSE : Wife, travel, trade, loss of sight, 
death etc. be known from the 7th house . 

an*j tjerqtf i 

*iwgqsTfav utu 

9. EIGHTH HOUSE : The 8th house indicates longevity, 
battle, enemies, forts, wealth of the dead* and things that have 
happened and are to happen (in the past and future births). 

w «*? * i 

qtqqr^nfqqr tri II foil 

10. NINTH HOUSE : Fortunes, wife’s brother, religion, 
brother’s wife, visits to shrines etc. be known from the 9th 
house. 

TTsq fr§^r«n i 

yqiftfd n??)i 

. 11. TENTH HOUSE : Royalty (authority), place, profess- 

ion (livelihood), honour, father, living in foreign lands and debts 
are to be understood from the 10th house. 

Notes : “Father” is to be studied through the 10 house, 
as per the above sloka. The sage obviously refers to the 10th in 
this content as the 10th is the 7th from the 4th. Western astrolo- 
gers too follow this view. 



123 


Chapter 1 1 

Here we need some elaboration. The status of the father, 
his family (i.e. consisting of the native’s mother etc.), and the 
final rites the native will perform to his father will all have to 
he known through the 10th hohse. The father as an individual 
and his well being etc. be examined from the 9th house. The 
sage also discusses the father with reference to the 9th house in 
one of the ensuing chapters. 

Thus it follows that both the 9th and 10th are primary 
houses related to father. 

anti ^ 

12. ELEVENTH HOUSE : All articles, son’s wife, in- 
come, prosperity, quadrupeds etc. are to be understood from the 
11th house. 

sqti W qfc<ini?rT-fT for ^«n \ 
fa 5nn«nfnf?T 

13. TWELFTH HOUSE : From the 12th house, one can 
know about expenses, history of enemies, dne’s own death etc. 

n art i 

SI^ TT5tTF*T: J7mft*TSfa ^fat'll? vii . 

trcr 

14-16. PROSPERITY OR ANNIHILATION Op A 
HOUSE . Predict prosperity of the house which is conjunct or 
is aspected by a benefic. Also when its lord is ia Yuvavastha or 
in Prabuddhavastha or in Kaumaravastha or in the 10th house, 
the bhava’s wellbeing is indicated. The bhava which is not aspec- 
ted by its lord or whose lord is with a malefic planet or with one 
of the lords of evil and such other houses (i.e. 3rd, 6th, 8th, 11th 
and 12th) or is defeated in a planetary war or is in one of the 



124 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastrd 

three Avasthas, viz, Vriddhavastha, Mritavastha and Suptava- 
stha. 

Notes : The prosperity or wellbeing of a house is assured 
under the following conditions : 

(a) The house that contains a benefic. 

(b) The house that js aspected by a benefic. 

(c) The house whose lord is in Yuvavastha or in Kumara- 
vastha. These two Avasthas are among the 5 Avasthas, viz. Baala, 
Kumata, Yfefi&na, Vriddha and Mrita by being in 6° portions 
respectively. This is for an odd sign placement. It is reverse in 
the case of an eveii sign. Aslo see ch. 45 infra. 

80 to say if the lord of a bouse is in 6° to 18° of an odd 
sign, he will be in one of the two Avasthas required. Alternati- 
vely, it should be between 12° and 24“ of an even sign. (If a 
planet Is debilitated or is combust, the goods cited are void). 

(d) Pmbuddhavastha is another name for Jagradavastha, 
meaning a state of awakenness. This applies to a planet in own 
sign or in exaltation sign. The bhava owned by an exalted planet 
or placed in own sign flourishes. Except the luminaries, the other 
five own each two houses. It is fVue that a planet owning two 
houses if placed in own house, it predominantly acts, on 
behalf of that house occupied by it. Simultaneously, its another 
house also gets strengthened by virtue of such a placement. For 
example, Saturn owns the 3rd and 4th for Scorpio ascendant 
and if he is in the 4th, he will mainly give good effects of the 4th 
(his Moola-trikona house). This does not mean that the 3rd 
house is left uncared by him. 

(e) The house owned by a planet placed in the 10th from 
the ascendant will produce good results. I would prefer it to be 
closely related to the 10th cusp (or meridian) for it is the most 
effective point of the natus. For details, see notes for rule 1, ch. 
2 of my work, “Doctrines of Suka Nadi— Retold.” 

Next we are told of the conditions under which a house 
suffers annihilations which are : 

(a) The bhava unaspected by its lord does not flourish. 
Each bhava cannot be under the aspect of its lord. Then this 
does not mean that the bhava suffers annihilation. It may be 
construed that in tne absence of such an aspect, the bhava can 



125 


Chapter 1 1 

look upto alternative sources as mentioned earlier. If a malefic 
relation is there for a bhava, its lord's aspect on it is an 
antidote. 

(b) The lord of a bhava joining a .malefic is a disadvantage 
for the bhava. If the said malefic is a friendly planet to the bhava 
lord or if they join in favourable houses, then the evil is minimi- 
zed. Even if it is an exalted malefic, then also good effects may 
be expected. 

(c) The lord of a house in conjunction with the lord of 
6th/8th/12th cannot be . productive of good. If he himself is an 
evil lord, then some relief can be expected. This is mainly from 
a yoga point and not in all respects. 

(d) If a planet is defeated in planetary war, its bhava’s 
potence is void. 

Normally, we are taught that when two planets are on the 
same degree there occurs a war and the one with lesser longitude 
is declared winner. The luminaries do -not enter into war. 

In this connection, please refer to ch. 79 (Vol. II. of our 
present work). 

The late C. G. Rajau has a detailed and elaborate account 
of planetary war. According to him if two planets have identical 
longitudes to the minute of arc there is a planetary war, (This 
does not involve luminaries). He adds that they should be on the 
same latitude, i. e. both northern or both southern. The one 
with higher latitude is declared winner. He gives an example 
involving Saturn and Mars as under, for 0347 hrs on 15th 
December 1925 : 

Longitude Latitude 

Mars 209° 24' 0 N 21 

Saturn 209° 24' 2 N 25 

He declares Saturn as the winner as he has advanced 
latitude. 

We need not rush to the conclusion that Mr, Rajan’s vers- 
ion is contrary to Parasara’s. We should appreciate the pains 
taken by Mr. Rajan in throwing more light on the subject. He 
gives more advanced and sound arguments which are not being 
reproduced here for the sake of achieving brevity. 



126 ' Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 

For practical purposes, we are well guided by the elaborat- 
ion of Mr. Rajan. 

(e) The house whose lord is in Vriddhavastha (i.e. of an 
ady flpced age ) becomes ineffectiv e from the view point of good 
results. A planet in the area of i'8°-24 t ' of an odd sign or between 
6° and 1 2° of an even sign is said to be in such an Avastha. 

(f) If a planet is in Mritavastha. (in extremis ) its bhava 
wi|jj?r destroyed. This state occurs to a planet in the first 6° of 
an even sign or in the last 6° of an odd sign. 

(g) Lastly, a planet in Suptavastha neutralis es the effect 
t he bhava owned by it . This Avastha is due to a debilitated 
planet or the one in an inimical camp. 

The reader will thus see the significance of the present t\yo 
slokas. 

Hemaprabha Suri, a Jain astrologer of eminence, enumera- 
tes a principle in his work “Trailokya Prakasa” (edited by Ram 
Sarup Sharma, Lahore) that the bhava occupied or aspected 
by the Moon undergoes good or bad effects. That is, if the Moon 
is increasing, good effects will increase; otherwise effects will 
diminish. 


3PI ||?^|| 

Chapter 12 

Effects Of First House 

5THT: ^fwhJR*iT waT: \\^\\ 

1-2. PHYSICAL COMFORTS : Should the ascendant lord 
be conjunct a malefic or be in the 8th, 6th or 1 2th, physical 
felicity will diminish. If he is in an angle/foae jfyere will be at 


Chapter 12 


127 


a ll times comforts of the body. If the ascendant lord is in 
debilitation, c ombustion or en emy’s sign, there will be ~5isfeases . 
“ With a beneric m an an g le or trine, all diseases will disappear . 

Notes : The ascendant lord going to an evil house toge- 
ther with a malefic is a dire defect in the matter of not only 
health but also luck and progress. If the ascendant lord in the 
process is a benefic or is exalted, then some relief in the course 
of time can be hoped. 

The ascendant’s angles (i.e. 4th, 7tb or the 10th) or its 
trine (5th/9lh) containing a benefic is a powerful remedy for all 
ills related to behlth. 

3. There will not be bodily health if the ascendant or the 

Moon be aspected by or conjunct a malefic, being devoid of a 
benefic’s aspect. ' 

sW qOT: WTfT ^ \ 

4. BODILY BEAUTY : A benefic in the ascendant will' 
give a pleasing appearance, while a malefic will make one bereft 
of good appearance. Felicity of the body will be enjoyed if the 
ascendant is aspected by or conjunct a benefic. 

O 4 

giTcft Tnrerevm: nuu 

?T95> I 

STRTtT 9TSfq TRSTSFrotltT: |tv»ll 

^ s» 

5-7. OTHER BENEFITS : If the ascendant lord, Mercury, 
Jupiter or Venus be in an angle or in a trine, the native will be 
longlived, wealthy, intelligent and liked by the king. Fame, 
wealth, abundant pleasures and comforts of the body will 


128 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


be acquired it the ascendant lord is in a movable sign and be 
aspected by a benefic planet. One will be endowed with royal 
marks (of fbrtune) if Mercury, Jupiter or Venus be in the 
ascendant along with the M|oon, or be in angle from the 
ascendant. 

Notes : “Rajalakshana” means mark of fortune. There 
are 32 Lakshanas of major category in Samudrika Sastra or 
physiognomy. Some of these could be found in ch. 81 of our 
present work (vol II). 

If Mercury, Jupiter or Venus be in 4th, 7th or l Oth from 
the ascendant, or be in the company of the Moon in the ascen- 
dant, the native will enjoy royal fortunes. 

grit 

m3 ?T 5fT?ft llqll 

8, COIL&D BIRTH : If there be a birth in one of Aries, 
Taurus and Leo ascendants containing either Saturn or Mars, 
the birth of the child is with a coil around™ The corresponding 
limb will be in accordance with the Rasi or Navamsa rising. 

Notes : This rule applies to only three ascendants, viz. 
Aries, Taurus and Leo. Mars or Saturn should be in the 
ascendant. The limbs indicated by the Rasis are shown in sloka 
4-4 £ of ch. 4 supra. These apply to the Navamsas as well. The 
limbs denoted in slokas 12-15 of the present chapter have a 
different use and should not be mixed for the purpose of coiled 
birth, which will be simply obvious to the reader. 

q g m m i d) mg: «r$ i 

mat mrmfsrfa fafamnieu 

9. BIRTH OF TWINS : The native, who has the Sun in 
a quadruped sign while others are in dual signs with strength, is 
born as one of the twins. 

* 

Notes : Quadruped signs are : Aries, Taurus, Leo, first 
half of Capricorn and second part of Sagittarius. If the Sun is 
in a quadruped sign while all others are in dual signs — Gemini 
and its angles — the native will be one of the twins. The other 
six planets be endowed with strength. 



Chapter 12 129 

^ MwW: fqsrT ^ q>fa?T: u^oii 

10. TO BE NURTURED BY 3 MOTHERS : If the Sun 
and the Moon join in one and the same bhava (house) and fall 
in one Navamsa, the native will be nurtured by 3 different mot- 
hers for the fiirst 3 months from its birth and will later on be 
brought up by its father and brother. 

Notes : In my opinion, the Vargothama position of the 
luminaries in conjunction seems to be excepted. They should be 
in the same quarter of a constellation and will naturally be in 
one Navamsa, This combination obviously implies loss of 
mother within the first three months. 

STT5T apart from meaning a brother calls for interpretation 
is a near relative in general. 

3Tq ?Rf^Tfqqr 

i 11 IMPORTANT : The learned in astrology should base 
the effects on the Moon also as arc applicable to the ascendant. 
Now explained are clues to know of uffcers, identity marks etc. 
on one’s person. 

Notes : This wellknown rule is a speciality in Hindu 
Astrology and has the sage’s sanction. The Moon is given a 
significant status equal to the ascendant for she rules one’s mind 
and the mind in turn functions according to one’s Karma, see 
Budcihih Karmanusarini. 

faft q>*rY qifafc ^ vqhqqit \ 

qeqf cqrFiq ^ waft rf^n \ 

?TTfaTtf?r qqTqWT ll^ll 
arf^Tvr^gl arnr 

12-14. DECANATES AND BODILY LIMBS : Head, 
eyes, ears, nose, temple, chin and face is the order of limbs 
denoted (by the various houses) when the first decanate of a sign 



”0 Brihat Parasara II ora Sastra 

ascends. In the case of the second decanate ascending, the order 
is : neck, shoulder, arm, side, heart, stomach and navel. The 
order for the third decanate ascending is : pelvis, anus/penis, 
testicles, thigh, knee, calf and foot. The portion already risen 
indicates left side of the body (while the one yet to rise — i e. 
invisible half— denotes right side of the body). 

Notes : The portion that has already risen is known as 
visible half of the horoscope. From the cusp of the ascendant 
to the cusp of the descendant counted backwards (i e. via the 
10th cusp) is visible half. The rest is invisible half. Visible 
half represents the left side of the body while invisible half right 
side of the body. 

The limbs suggested by the 2 slokas in three different 
orders are shown in the three diagrams for an easy grasp. The 
assumption is that the first decanate, second decanate and the 
third decanate of Aries rise in the respective cases : 


A 


Vo“«< 



flostril 













Chapter 12 


131 




Shoulder 

(left) 

ir~ : 

Neck : Neck 

(left) : (right) 

Shoulder 

(right) 

Arm 

(right) 

Arm 

(left) 

A 

Aries ascendant 
second decanate 

Right 
side of 
trunk 

Left 
side of 

trunk 

Right 
side of 
heart 

Left side 
of 

heart 

Left side 
of stom- 
ach 

Left side 
of 

navel 

Right 
side of 
navel 

Right 
side of 
stomach 


Anus / 
penis 
(left) 

Left side 
of 

pelvis 

Right 
side of 
pelvis 

Anus/ 

penis 

(right) 

Right 

testicle 

Left 

testicle 

Aries ascendant 
third decanate 

Right 

thigh 

Left 

thigh 

Right 

knee 

Left 

knee 

Left 

calf 

Left : Right 

foot : foot 

Right 

caif 




132 


Brihat Parasora Hora Sastra 


The above three diagrams are made for the three decanates 
of Aries ascendant. The reader can change, the sign positions 
according to the ascendant and its decanate as prevailing at 
birth. The two halves in the ascendant and 7th may please be 
noted attentively. 

The corresponding part for female is ovary as against 
male’s testicle. Similarly female’s privity prevails in exchange of 
male organ. Pelvis is made into two parts, viz. false pelvis and 
true pelvis. The true pelvis is denoted by the portion of the 
zodiac yet to rise while false pelvis by the half of zodiac already 
rose. 


four: <TTq> cfq i 

15. LIMBS AFFECTED : The limb related to a malefic 
by occupation will have ulcers or scars while the one by benefic 
will have a mark (like moles etc). So say the learned (in 
astrology). 

Notes : Also see sloka 6, ch. 4 of Saravali, which states 
that a malefic or a benefic if be in own Rasi or Navamsa, the 
effects will be right from birth. In other cases, it will be in the 
course of one’s life that these effects will come to pass. 


3T«T 1 1 { 3n 

Chapter 13 

Effects of Second House 

aqtnqqivf qfcrr sm frswrm ! \ 

I 

tnrero a% ?fNr: <tpt> tRf*nrm?*T n^ii 

1-2. COMBINATIONS FOR WEALTH : O excellent of 
the Brahmanas, listen to me speaking on the effects of the 2nd 



Chapter 13 


133 


house, If the lord of the 2nd is in the 2nd or is in an angle or in 
a trine, he will promote one's wcalth(or monetary state). Should 
he be in the 6th/8th/I2th, financial conditions will decline. A 
benefic in the 2nd will give wealth while a malefic instead will 
destroy the same. ' 

Not es : Venus or Merc ury in the 2nd will be favourable 
for weal th .W hfle Jupiter ajll not be wholly auspicious Tf 10 w- 
ever, Jupiter is in the 2nai ruling the 2nd7then financial aspects 
will be smooth. That is why the sage specifically mentions this 
fact in the next sloka. It does not mean that Jupiter, otherwise 
in the 2nd will be wholly harmful. This denotes a problematic 
situation in money matters. Various authors have given diffe- 
rent views in their works for a summary of which the reader 
may switch over to p. 491 of my English translation of Saravali. 

afjwit srefa setoh sr ?rc& 11311 

3. One will be wealthy if Jupiter is in the 2nd as the lord 
of the 2nd or is with Mars. 

Notes : There are two independent conditions in this verse 
denoting wealth. Jupiter, if in the 2nd, should be the ruler of 
2 nd for the native becoming wealth y. This applie s, to Scorp io 
ascendant and Aquarius ascendant. In that case” his lonely 
position itseTnn the 2nd will confer wealth rather abundant 
wealth. Whether or not Jupiter owns the 2nd, if be conjunct 
Mars, wealth will be acquired by the native; the house occupied 
by them not standing for consideration. 

viren n tni 

n tun 

<a ^ \ 

4. If the 2nd lord is in the 11th while the lord of the 11th 
is in the 2nd, wealth will be acquired by the native. Alternat- 
ively these two lords may join in an angle or in a trine. 

Notes : The 1 1 th lord has a say in financial matters apart 
from the 2nd lbrd. One’s gains are indicated by the 11th lord- 
If he is in exchange with the 2nd lord, the native will be wealthy, 
These two planets joining in the ascendant, 4th, 7th, 10th, 5th or 
9th will also lead to financial gains. 


*34 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 

<TfNw>lifr I 

pwWl ^5 i>kii 

5. If the lord of the 2nd is in an angle while the I Ith lord 
is in a trine thereof or is aspected by or conjunct by Jupiter and 
Venus, the supject will be wealthy. 

Notes . The lord of the 2nd should be in the ascendant, 
or 4th/7th/10th house. The 1 Ith lord should be in the 5th/9th 
counted from the house occupied by the 2nd lord. Alternatively 
the 2nd lord should be related to Jupiter (and) or Venus by 
conjunction or by aspect. Both the combinations are for 
gaining wealth. 


trcirnTTfsqrefrft i 

*F*TSmf?TCTftaii f%T«TT^=f qT: Iball 

6-7. YOGAS FOR POVERTY : One will be penniless if 
the lord of the 2nd is in an evil house while the 11th lord is also 
so placed and the 2nd is occupied by a malefic. There will be 
penury right from birth and the native will have to beg even for 
his food if the lords of the 2nd and the 11th are both combust 
or be with malefics. 

Notes ; The lords of the 2nd and 11th can be jointly*in 
the 6th/8th/l 2th or individually disposed in any two of the said 
three houses. Simultaneously the 2nd house needs a malefic in 
it. Thus there are afflictions from three directions which will 
make the native extremely poor. Even food is denied to one 
having combust 2nd lord and combust 11th lord. Alternatively 
the 2nd lord may be with a severe malefic while the II th lord is 
also similarly placed. The conjunction of the 2nd lord with a 
Yogakarka, although a malefic, will not be adverse in the 
matter of finace. On the contrary it will prove very auspicious 
For example, Mercury, the 2nd lord, joining Saturn in the case 
of a Taurus native, will make financial prospects superior. 

Sim 8% TTj? TT5T^T9 llq|| 



Chapter 13 


135 

8. LOSS OF WEALTH THROUGH THE KING : Should 
the lords of the 2nd and 11th be relegated to the 6th/8th/l2th 
(jointly or separately) while Mars is in the 11th and Rahu is in 
the 2nd, the native will lose his wealth on account of royal 
punishments. 

Notes : This combination will cause financial losses 
through penalties, fines etc. imposed by the government, in the 
modern context, Monetary deficiencies will as well persist 
throughout. 

vTTW sftt tx^ l 

ue.n 

9. EXPENSES ON GOOD ACCOUNTS : Jupiter in the 
11th, Venus in the 2nd, and a benefic in the 12th while the 2nd 
lord is conjunct a benefic there will be expenses on religious or 
charitable grounds. 

! II? oil 

10. FAME ETC. : If the 2nd lord is in own sign or is 
exalted the native will look after his people, will help others and 
will become famous. 

Notes : Our text requires the 2nd lord to be in exaltation 
or in own sign so that the native will look after his people & C. 

It has been practically seen that the 2nd lord’s dignity is 
essential for one to be helpful to others and be dutiful towards 
his family members. Chaukhamba edition has almost a different 
condition in this place : It states that the 2nd lord should be in 
deep exaltation or in own sign and be in aspect to Jupiter. The 
net result given therein is “fame and liked bypall”. The condi- 
tion of ‘deep’ exaltation seems to me to be somewhat in excess 
of the requirement while a simple own sign position is given as 
an alternative. As such, I feel mere exaltation of the 2nd lord is 
enough for obtaining the said results. 

<# •* 

5TTO%ll??|| 



136 


Brlhat Parasara Hora Sastra 


11. EFFORTLESS ACQUISITION : If the 2nd lord is 
conjunct a benefic and be in a good division like Paravatamsa, 
there will be all kinds of wealth in his family effortlessly. 

Notes : “Paravatamsa” denotes six good Vargas out of 
Dasavarga scheme (vide ch. 6, supra). “Paravatamsadau” of the 
text denotes Paravata or such other higher Vargas. To wit, the 
2nd lord should be in Paravatamsa or in Dcvalokamsa, Brahma- 
lokamsa, Sakravahanamsa or Sridhamamsa in the Dasavarga 
scheme. The corresponding superior Amsas whcm the entire 
Shodasavarga scheme is used should be above Poornachandr- 
amsa. In the Dasavarga scheme, why the sage fixes the mini- 
mum Varga as Paravatha is obvious. This varga denotes 6 good 
divisions in Dasavarga scheme i.e. above 50% of good 
divisions. 

The 2nd lord being endowed with such a Varga dignity and 
conjunct another benefic brings in effortless wealth and wealth 
of all kinds. It follows that the 2nd lord’s disposition (or the 
disposition of Jupiter) will decide the financial status of a native, 

12. EYES : If the 2nd lord is endowed with strength, the 
native will possess beautiful eyes. Should the said planet be in 
the 6th, 8th or 12th, there will be disease or deformity of eyes. 

Notes : “Netresa” denotes the lord of the 2nd, i.e, signifi- 
cator of eyes. This does not mean that the 12th lord has nothing 
to do with eyes. Precisely, 2nd lord and 12th lord respectively 
lord over right eye and left eye respectively. This is from the 
health point of view of eye. However, when the beauty of the 
eyes is to be known, it is from the 2nd house only. Jupiter 
well placed in the 2nd, or the 2nd lord in exaltation, or 
with a bcnefie will give one beautiful eyes. While Venus in the 
2nd or Full Moon in the 2nd will not deprive one of beautiful 
eyes, defects of sight at an early stage will result from the said 
position. Mercury in the 2nd will have a say on the speech 
rather than on the sight. Hence Jupter’s position in the 2nd is 
a safe bet for strong sight and beauty of the eyes, if the planet 
is not with evils of fall and the like. 



137 


Chapter 14 

SR7T TNHml 3^ qi ^f^ I 

fqff^SH ^ Taricft % qirTEtnfatfqfcrrT: II \ \ II 

13. UNTRUTHFUL PERSON : If the 2nd house audits 
lord are conjunct malefics, the native will be a tale-bearer, will 
speak untruth and will be afflicted by windy diseases. 

Notes : The 2nd house and its lord are referred in the 
matter of windy diseases. Gastric troubles, rheumatism and 
the like are classified under windy disorders. If the 2nd house 
or its lord is associated with Saturn or Mercury it will cause 
rheumatism and such other disorders. If Jupiter in affliction is 
so related, gastric troubles will come to pass. 


Chapter 14 

Effects Of The Third House 

sfrsnyrceS smw firauftTCUtu 

I. O Brahmin, I now tell you about the 3rd house. Should 
the 3rd house be conjunct or aspected by a benefic, the native 
will be endowed with.co-born and be courageous. 

Notes : ‘Bhratru’ in Sanskrit simply means a brother. 
Proper adjective is to be added, viz. Jyeshta for elder and 
Kanishta for younger, to the word Bhratru. The 3rd house 
specifically deals with the after-born while the 1 1th house deals 
with preborn. This can be seep from sloka 32, Ch. 32 infra. 
In the said chapter the sage instructs us to consider Mars for 
the 3rd bhava and Jupiter for 11th bhava. 

Younger sister is denoted by the 3rd house and Mars while 
elder sister by the 11th house and Jupiter. 



138 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 

!|<n^ | 

WRTSTSRrft qisfa ll^ll 

2. If the 3rd lord along with Mars aspects the 3rd house 
the native will enjoy good results due to the 3rd house. Alterna- 
tively these two planets may be in the 3rd itself. 

Notes ; Mars alone in the 3rd, except in Capricorn or in 
Scorpio or in Aries, is not conductive to brothers. The form of 
our sloka is different in that the 3rd house be jointly aspected or 
occupied by Mars and the 3rd lord for the prosperity of coborn. 

3- Destruction at once of coborn will come to pass if the 
said 2 planets are together with a malefic or in a sign owned by 
a malefic. 

Notes : “The coborn will not live long” is the hint given by 
the phrase “ Sadyo nihantarau ” Mars and the 3rd lord joining 
in a malefic’s sign or joining a malefic is said to be adverse for 
the longevity of coborn. Similarly Jupiter and the 11th lord in 
such a state is adverse for elder brothers and elder sisters; Venus 
and the 7th lord so placed for the spouse, Jupiter and the 5th 
lord so placed for progeny; Sun and the 9th lord so placed for 
father, the Moon and the 4th lord so placed for mother, and so 
on and so forth. So to say the significator and the lord of the 
concerned house together in a malefic’s sign or with a malefic 
(or in an evil house) will bring harm to the said relative. 

SUTcT eT^T 'SMcTT qf* U*U 

4- 4$. FEMALE AND MALE CO BORN : If the 3rd lord 
is a femaie planet or if the 3rd house be occupied by female 
planets, one will have sisters born after him. Similarly male 
planets and male signs denote younger brothers. Should it be of 
mixed nature, coborn of both sexes will be obtained. These 
effects be declared after assessing the strength and weakness of 
the concerned. 



Chapter 14 


139 


Notes : Saturn and Mercury are termed as neutral planets, 
Rahu and Ketu are shadowy ones. In the matter of deciding 
the sex of coboru or progeny, Saturn and Rahu be treated as 
males while Mercury and Kctu are females. 

(Trailokyaprakasika vide sloka 12 treats Ketu as a female 
and Rahu as a eunuch. Daivagnabharana vide ch. I, s. 14-15 
considers the reverse of this at one place and imediately quotes 
a different school of thought, thus : Rahu is a male planet and 
Ketu a eunuch.) 

All odd signs are male signs and all even signs are female 
signs. Male signs exclusively occupied by male planets will cause 
birth of brothers. Converse is the case with female signs occu- 
pied by female planets. This should be known from the 3rd 
house being male or female sign & C. If the 3rd house is 
occupied by a male planet as well as a female planet, there will 
be brothers and sisters as well. The contribution will come to 
pass if the contributor is strong. For example, Jupiter in the 3rd 
in a male sign if strong will cause the birth of a brother. If he is 
weak, acquisition of brother through Jupiter will not be fruitful. 
Then one has to look upto alternative sources whether the native 
will have a brother or not. 

IIVJ( 

faftrfejnr ii^ii 

5-6. Should the 3rd lord and Mars be together in the 8th, 
destruction of cobom will result. Happiness in this respect 
will come to pass if Mars or the 3rd lord is in an angle or in a 
trine or in exaltation/friendly divisions. 

Notes : The suggestions given in the notes for sloka 3 
about spouse, elder brother, mother etc. may be suitably 
extended in this respect with the help of the present verse. For 
example, if Venus and 7th lord are together in the 8th, the 
native’s married life will be short (and in bad taste.) 

Similarly, their conjunction in an angle or in a trine will 
confer Jonglasting benefic effects. 

Further hint that can be taken from the verse in question 
is : If a significator and house lord join together in a sign which 
is identical with debilitation/inimical sign for one of them, the 



140 


Brihat Parasara ffora Sastrd 


significance of the planet is lost. If they join in a sign which is 
exaltation/friendly sign for one of them, then the significance of 
the planet gains prosperity. 

artwork i 

C -o -w- O 

tf>TT% ^ftT^TUcT> Hull 

*mt ^3 I 

tf>TT% TTgtPgtf fl^SI § JfWt Hell 

<T?sn 3 i? g eic^ ^31 

It;? «rarfsw>*pt lieu 

c "• 

af \ *rf^ . star sr*t *farT: i 
ct^t sifrsg-tr 'eissraiTfwrs^ qrftasni n? on 

*T f cTO WI SR £RST ^ 3?T ^3 1 
5T^T: ffgtan: «TS £ itaSfWsrtanT: II? ?ll 

7-11. NUMBER OF BROTHERS AND SISTERS : If 
Mercury is in the 3rd while the 3rd lord and Moon are together 
as the indicator (Mars) joins Saturn, the effects are : there 
occurred the birth of an elder sister and there will be younger 
brothers. Further the third brother will die. Should Mars and 
Rahu be conjunct while the 3rd lord is in his sign of debilitation, 
there will be loss of younger brothers/sisters while 3 elder 
brothers/sisters were attained by the native. If the 3rd lord is in 
an angle while the significator is exalted in a trine and be in the 
company of Jupiter, 12 will be the number of total coborn. Out 
of these 2 elders and the 3rd, 7th, 9th and 12th of younger 
coborn will be shortlived while six of the said twelve will be 
longlived. 

Notes : The word ‘Karaka’ or significator in sloka 7 etc. 
should be wisely noted as Mars only and not as Jupiter, which 
is borne by sloka 11. 

In the context of indication of one’s having 12 coborn, 
this may be taken in the present age to be a number of coborn, 
if not literally 12. Mars exalted and being in the company of 
Jupiter is denoted w'hich means Jupiter will be in fall. Some of 
the coborn will die obviously because of Jupiter’s debilitation 
taking away some potence of exalted Mars. 



141 


Chapter 1 4 

g^<HT 5fT | 

^T# f*3T% *Frra^T?3 : It ^ \\ 

?lf?Tq% 57% J 

^TTrfTy qfar: ^ H 

12-13. There will be 7 coborn if the 12th lord (some texts 
read as the 11th lord) joins Mars and Jupiter while the 3rd is 
occupied by the Moon. If the Moon is lonely placed in the 3rd 
in aspect to male planets, there will be younger brothers while 
the aspect of Venus denotes younger sisters. 

3HT STlrf TfaffcT «f*5 5fTrT \ 

3TO5r TK33T !JTTgcT:n?Y|| 

14. ADVERSE PLANETS : The Sun in the 3rd will 
destroy the preborn. The afterborn will be destroyed if Saturn 
is found in the 3rd. In the same situation Mars will destroy 
both the preborn and later bom. 

Notes : Sage Bhrigu also opines that the Sun in the 3rd 
house will not allow the native to retain his elder brothers. 
This position will affect one’s relationship with brothers and 
sisters. Regarding Mars in the 3rd, Garga Maharshi states 
that the native will obtain two brothers and two sisters all the 4 
of whom will pass away early. The placement of Mars in the 
3rd has also adverse say on the native’s character. For further 
details, see my detailed notes in the chapter “Effects of Planets 
in Bhavas”, of Saravali. 

fas l crriiRf i 

srfireHi en snrWTtr n?vtn 

15. After estimating the strength and weakness of such 
yogas, the effects related to brothers and sisters be announced. 



3FT HOWHCfiffTSirm: II? *11 

>9 

Chapter 15 

Effects Of The Fourth House 

3*5T !|5TltT«iraflT U?T WWft SRTI 

pTO ^ts«t T«mrr»r fjsftrrc ! imt 

1. O excellent of the Brahmins, thus have been briefly told 
about the effects of the 3rd house. Now listen to the results 
related to the 4th house. 

epffot cT^sfa \ 

* l ^ sia 11311 

2. HOUSING COMFORTS : One will have residential 
comforts in full degree if the 4th is occupied by its lord or by 
the ascendant lord and be aspected by a bertefic. 

irfa i 

gt? ii^ii 

3. MISCELLANEOUS Should the 5th lord be in his own 
house, or in own Navamsa or in exaltation, the native will be 

endowed with comforts related to lands, conveyances, houses 
etc. and musical instruments. 

fcnr 

3373 ^ uxii 

4. HOUSING COMFORTS : If the 10th lord joins the 
4th lord in an angle or in a trine, the native will acquire beauti- 
ful mansions. 

IIVLII 

5. RELATIVES : Should Mercury be in the ascendant 
while the 4th lord being a benefic is aspected by another benefic, 
the native will be honoured by his relatives. 



143 


Chapter 15 

vit% gggggd 'n , 9ffafroft&; u^ii 

6. LONG-LIVING MOTHER : If the 4th house is occu- 
pied by a benefic while its lord is in his exaltation sign as the 
indicator of mother is endowed with strength, the native will 
have a Jong-living mother. 

Notes : The stronger among the Moon and Mars is 
denoted as the significator of mother, vide slokas 18-19 ch. 32, 
infra. There are still many more views about the karakatwas for 
parents given by various authors. 

cT«TT vpi: ) 

»ng: 5<if ws g^g n\3ii 

7. HAPPINESS TO MOTHER : The native’s mother 
will be happy if the 4th lord is in an angle while Venus is also in 
an angle as Mercury is exalted. 

gtf Tfsnj# gmma gfa t 

8. QUADRUPEDS : The Sun in the 4th, Moon and 
Saturn in the 9th and Mars in the 11th— this yoga will confer 
cows and huffaloes on the native. 

wtffanr SITRtfg *T»en*l 1 1 til 

9. DUMBNESS : Should the 4th house be a movable one 

while its lord and Mars are together in the 6th or the 8th house 
the native will be dumb. ’ 

gtarrfirit t 
srr^ gr^^g gtcr i 
^t^>i gg ?rrfgVr gr^g *rgg i 



144 


Brikat Parasara Horn Sastra 


5TT^^ g^TlfsiW g^?T TO^II^II 
£H$T *c*TC STP^ smft vkt{ 1 

wr *3^ qrcc% TOPwrauitYii 

10-14. CONVEYANCES : If the ascendant lord is a bene- 
fic while the 4th lord is in fall or in the 11th and the significatoi 
(Venus) is in the 12th, the native will obtain conveyances in his 
12th year. Should the Sun be in the 4th house, as the 4th lord 
is exalted and be with Venus, one will acquire conveyances in his 
32nd year. It will be in the 42nd year that one will be endowed 
with conveyances if the 4th lord joins the 10th lord in his (4th 
lord’s) exaltation Navamsa. An exchange between the 11th 
and the 4th lords will confer conveyances in the 12th year. A 
benefic related to the 4th house (and to its lord) will bring with 
him auspicious effects while a malefic will produce only malefic 
effects (in respect of conveyances). 

Notes : It is not known why the 4th lord should be in fall 
for early obtainment of conveyances. This condition seems to 
be the result of defective text as the next line adds that the 4th 
lord may be in the 11th. To me it occurs that the correct ver- 
sion should read as : If the ascendant lord is a benefic while the 
11th is tenanted by Venus and the 4th lord, early obtainment of 
conveyance (around the 1 2th year) will come to pass. Another 
rule given by the sage to get similar effect is an exchange 
between the lord of 4th and 11th. 

Should a benefic be in the 4th, aspect the 4th, or is con- 
junct with or aspect the lord of the 4th house, then the native 
will be happy with conveyances and be free from accidents and 
dangers, A malefic replacing the said benefic will cause losses 
concerning vehicles and reduce one to severe accidents. 


Dear Reader , 

We are glad you are reading 
this Unique Boole. Some other 
remaining chapters, which 
contain very important 
material, are given in its 
ITnd Part, Please write 
for your copy of the same. 

R AUJ AN RJBLI CATIONS 


ara q^^nTTsrTJsus^ro: u ? \ 1 1 


Chapter 16 

Effects Of The Fifth House 

3T«T qb-c|H?TTgT^ Vmilfa fg^T ! I 

grrm^t g?r^ * 11 

TT ^ *^cn 

g g?mfrfr ngwu^i 

gNfcrrn^ ^tsPt qn?T*F% ■* 

3TT*^ 3^t ^TTcft ^T faraS wqg u^h 

1-3. 0 Brahmin, now I tell you the effects related to the 
5th house. IF the lords of the ascendant and the 5th are in their 
own signs or in an angle or in a trine, one will enjoy thorough 
happiness through his children. Should the 5th lord be in the 
6th, 8th or 12th, there will be no offspring, Should the lord of 
the 5th be combust or be with malefics and be weak, there will 
be no children; even if per chance issues are obtained they will 
only quit the world soon. 

Notes : “Suta” in Sanskrit used in compound word or as 
an adjective does not exclude a female issue for it means “bego- 
tten”. There are however specific occasions where the expression 
“son” is exclusively denoted by this term. A logical approach 
according to circumstances is needed in interpreting such express- 
ions. 

The conjunction of the 5th lord with the ascendant lord in 
a good house will ensure early obtainment of children apart 
from happiness through them. If they join in an evil house, 
they will prove a defect in this respect. 

gcTToWJ i 

fcnxn srsmitr-tr ^ 

4. If the 5th lord is in the 6th as the ascendant lord is con- 
junct Mars, the native will lose his very first child whereafter his 
female will not be fertile to yield an offspring. 



146 


Brihat Parasura Hora Sastra 

scru^issTtsiTr^FT: i 

3?T*!3?tm ^ qf? ||*|| . 

5. Should the 5th lord be in fall in the 6th, 8th or the 12th 
while Mercury and Ketu are in the 5th, the dative's wife will 
give birth to one child only. 

q^r HrRq'R h «rcqfh i 
fT? ^qicTt II^M 

6. If the 5th lord is in fall and be not in aspect to the 5th 
while Saturn and Mercury are in the 5th, the native’s wife will 
give birth to one child only. 

qrfasreff $<r iftafivfin 

^ *wr mi fqfqf??TrT utsii 

7. Should the 9th lord be in the ascendant while the 5th 
lord is in fall ano Ketu is in the 5th along with Mercury, obtain- 
ment of progeny will be after a great deal of ordalium. 

Notes : The very presence of Mercury, or Ketu, or Saturn 
in the 5th will present a doubtful picture of progeny. If two of 
them join in the 5th, then there will be KakavanJhya Dosha 
(obtaining only a single issue) for the wife of the native, or even 
childlessness. 

37 3T *mTf?PT: 1 

8. If the 5lh lord is in the 6th, 8th or the 12th or be in an 

inimical sign or be in fall or in the 5th itself, the native will beget 
issues with difficulty. ; 

g*: i 

qtfaq# cT37 TTtH: ll&tl 

9. Should the 5th house be owned by Saturn or Mercury 
and be occupied or aspected by Saturn and Mandi, one will have 
adopted issues. 

Notes : “Mandi” is the word used in the text which means 
Gulika. This identically has been narrated in a previous Chapter. 



147 


Chapter 16 

Aspect of Mandi is suggested by the sage. Though there is no 
authentic information on aspect of Mandi (and other Upagra- 
has), it may be said that itaspeets the 7th house. 

The rule as per the sloka applies to Aquarius, Taurus, 
Virgo and Libra. In the case of the latter two Lagnas, Saturn 
though rules the 5th is helpless obviously because of affliction 
by Gulika. Otherwise Saturn related to the 5th house as its 
owner will not deprive one of progeny, making him go in for an 
adoption. 

fainafaTflt «TT5I fgfnTSfa w RtfarT: II? oil 
«. 

10. Should the Sun and the Moon be together in a Rasi 
and in the same Navamsa, the native will be brought up by 3 . 
mothers or 2 fathers. 

Notes : The luminaries should be in the same Rasi and 
same Navamsa. As a result of this yoga, the child will be 
brought up by 3 females equal to mother or two men as father 
(i.e. paternal reatives etc.). This obviously hints at the possible 
loss of mother or father soon after birth. 

5 #eT eT^T 3x7*7^^ IIH" 

11. Adopted issue is indicated if the 5th is tenanted by 
six planets while its lord is in the 1 2th, and the Moon and 
ascendant are endowed with strength. 

srafjcT 9^: g^T: fjf wnfNtfUSVl 

12. There will be many children if the 5th lord is strong 
while the 5th is aspected by strong Mercury, Jupiter and 
Venus. 

1 • is another leading which includes placement in the 

5 th. 



148 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


wSif eR#c*r®prasfii t 

fnrr f$ qraraitafa: sw^ 113 ijii 

13. If the 5th lord is with the Moon or be in her decanate, 
the native will beget daughters, so say astrologers. 

Notes : The 5th lord’s joining the Moon will confer daugh- 
ters (rather more daughters) than sons. The Moon is a planet 
of multiplicity and hence there will be a number of daughters. 

An alternative suggested by the sage is that the 5th lord 
should be in a decanate owned by the Moon. The Moon’s decan- 
ates are : the first ten degrees of Cancer, the second ten degrees 
of Pisces and the third ten degrees of Scorpio. If the 5th lord 
occupies a degree as above, he will fall in the Moon’s decanate 
Then the native will obtain daughters. 

Tlg^TT falft l 

«n3TRT 

14. If the 5th lord is in a movable sign while Saturn is in 
the 5th, as Rahu is with the Moon the child (so born) is of 
questionable birth. 

Notes : There are 3 conditions denoted so that the owner 
of the horoscope is an illegal product. These are : (a) The 5th 
lord should be in a movable sign, (b) The 5th house should be 
occupied by Saturn, and (c) The Moon should be with Rahu 
(anywhere). 

The combinations indicating illegal birth get nullified 
under certain conditions. For details see p. 55 of my English 
translation of Horasara also. 

9*1 9*IT|6dR*T I 

nvrat 9 vim: ii { xii 

15. Undoubtedly the native is born of other’s loins if the 
Moon is in the 8th from the ascendant while Jupiter is in the 8th 
from the Moon. Malefic’s aspect/a&sociation is essential in 
this Yoga. 


SWTmgqfa 



149 


Chapter 16 

16. If the 5th lord is exalted or be in the 2nd, 5th or 9th 
from the ascendant or be conjunct or aspected by Jupiter, obtain- 
ment of children will be there. 

Notes : Anyone of the following 3 states of the -5th lord 
will ensure birth of children : 

1. The 5th lord in exaltation. 

2. The 5th lord in the 2nd/5th/9th house. 

3. The 5th lord related to Jupiter by aspect or conjunction. 

Even though Jupiter may be the ruler of the 6th or 8th or 

I2tb, his association with the 5th lord will ensure obtainment of 
children. 

*tanfa** ;ft****ft ii^ii 

17. One will obtain children that will indulge in mean 
deeds if the 5th is occupied by 3 or 4 malefics while the 5th lord 
is in fall A benefic (including Mercury) in the 5th is excluded 
in the said combination. 

imfocuteti 

18. If the 5th is occupied by Jupiter while its lord is with 
Venus, one will obtain an offspring in his 32nd/33rd year. 

<rcf5UT fafafatfs u?en 

19. Should the 5th lord be in an angle along with Jupiter, 
the Karaka, one will beget a child at the age of 30 or 36. 

3ft*l^ *rnPT$ ipft I 

20. If Jupiter is in the 9th from the ascendant while Venus 
is in the 9th from Jupiter along with the ascendant lord, one will 
beget a child at the age of 40. 



ISO 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastrd 


gsresrR *T^ TT$ ?R>*r qmtm 1 
^taTrftmcft sNt sif^rf gsp??qq: iit^u 

21. The native will at the age of 32 lose his child if Rahu 
is in the 5th, the 5th lord is conjunct a malefic and Jupiter is in 
debilitation. 

qt$ vTKTTrT q I 

qjfatf * qtrfifqtf 5rTWtr: ll^^ll 

22. There will be loss of children at 33 and 36 if a malefic 
is in the 5th from Jupiter while another is in the 5th from the 
ascendant. 

^ gqrifaqqifH: ii ^ ^ u 

23. Should Mandi be in the ascendant while the ascendant 
lord is in fall, grief on account of loss of child at the age of 56 
will come to pass. 

Notes : Mandi and Gulika are one and the same as 
described supra. The placement of Gulika in the ascendant while 
its lord is in debilitation will cause death of an offspring at the 
native’s age of 56. Similarly, the debilitation of Gulika’s 
depositor will cause harm to the bhava concerned, i.e. the bhava 
occupied by Gulika. 

*5* qcsqtf ?Tqq f 5 1 

|| ^ VII 

fftr% qrcremg gq*: i 

Sift 1 U%TT TTgqqq l|^S(.U 
'qpqiTtjqq qq $qq: I 

gWniiT# • sift *jq?T *<TOqq u^^ll 
qtqwrqrq q*jq>rn?§ \ 

q^qqifl q?% qq*q ^ qqfcq? (1=^(1 

gqq: qtqqwq %qq qqttf q|q | 

fq^r q^q?qi% qq*q ^ sjqrfaq u^etii 



Chapter 16 151 

afa *04 Id 4^*1 if *inl ll^&M 

qmrqro 5^r fafafevhr i 

«r^Jr IJITO^ 3fT SfoTrT ^SWT ipftu^oll 
g^TT'fi <*^nm s RT*T i 
qygir sfanri ’Ts^rn ^ i\\\\\ 

STC^FTC't gdtft *farcf^T: I 

5H?i 5TTrT finr^cT Stefan *5?J II^U 

24-32. NUMBER OF CHILDREN : There will be 10 sons 
if the 4th and the 6th are occupied by malefics while the 5th 
lord is in deep exaltation joining the ascendant lord as Jupiter is 
with another benefic. Nine will be the number of sons that one 
will beget if Jupiter is in deep exaltation as Rahu is with the 
2nd lord and the 9th is occupied by its own lord. There will be 
eight sons if Jupiter is in the 5th/9th while the 5th lord is endo- 
wed with strength and the 2nd lord is in the 10th. Saturn in the 
9th from the ascendant while the 5th lord is in the 5th itself, 
will give 7 sons out of which twins will be born twice. If the 
5th lord in the 5th in conjunction with the 2nd lord, there 
will be birth of 7 sons out of which 3 will pass away. Only one 
son is denoted if there be a malefic in the 5th from the ascen- 
dant while Jupiter is in the 5th from Saturn or vice versa. If 
the 5th house has a malefic in it or if Saturn is in the 5th from 
Jupiter, the native will beget offspring only through his 2nd or 
3rd wife. Should the 5th be occupied by a malefic while Jupiter 
has Saturn in the 5th as the ascendant lord is in the 2nd, and 
the 5th lord is with Mars, one will live long but lose his children 
one after the other as they are born. 


Dear Raader, 

irfe are glad you are reading this Unique Book* 
Some other regaining ch apters, which contain ve 
Important material, are given In Its Ilnd Part. 
Please write for your covy of the same. 

RAN JAN PUBLICATIONS 


sm ii^ii 

Chapter 17 

Effects Of The Sixth House 

am foj ! ^ \ 

TVm®irer wtt 

1. O Brahmin, following are the effects produced by the 
6th house, relating to diseases, ulcers etc. Listen to the same 
attentively. 

*|E3lfa«T: ***$ *T ^ \ 

?nn ^Tif^T*nr«tw ll^lt 

2. ULCERS/ BRUISES : Should the 6th lord be in the 
6th itself or in the ascendant/Sth, there will be ulcers or bruises 
on the body. The sign becoming the 6th house will lead to the 
knowledge of the concerned limb. 

twrftK^fnwTft qfaimi 

nqmfr qrornfaw q ftnchR* \ 

|5|qT If gq SR qTftnj IIVII 

ijw qrftrvwt * q% t 

SlfolT TlgHT 59ft %gqT ■q ?RT TOtT U10I 

3-5. RELATIVES AFFECTED : The Karaka of a relative 
or the lord of such a house joining the 6th lord or being in the 
6th/8th house indicates ulcers/bruises to such a relative like 
father. The Sun with such lordship and in such a house 
denotes such affectation of head, the Moon face. Mars neck, 
Mercury navel, Jupiter nose, Venus eyes, Saturn- feet and the 
nodes abdomen. 

Notes : In these three slokas, we are instructed to know 
of the possible afflictions to the native’s relatives and to the native 
himself — both from the horoscope of the native. 



153 


Chapter 17 

Firstly a certain significator or a certain bhava lord should 
join the 6th lord or be in the 6th/8th house so that the relative 
signified by the said Karaka incurs ulcers, bruises etc. For 
example, in a Sagittarius Lagna horoscope, the 6th lord is Venus. 
The 6th is Taurus and the 8th is Cancer. Suppose the 4th lord 
Jupiter or the Matrukaraka Moon (signifying mother) joins 
Venus or is in Taurus. (Cancer though the 8th house, the 
Moon therein should not be deemed harmful in this regard and 
Jupiter in Cancer will not also afflict the mother as he is exalted 
there and protects the 4th by aspect.) As a result, the mother 
will incur ulcer, bruises etc. 

The relatives signified by planets and Bhavas are denoted 
in ch. 32, infra. 

The second clue is to know the possible affliction, to the 
native, of a particular area in the body. If the Sun is the lord of 
the 6th house or is with the 6th lord or is in the 6th/8th, the 
native will be apt to incur affliction of head, and so on and 
forth. As regards, Rahu and Ketu, they do not own any house 
in the normal context. Hence their position in the 6th/8th or 
goining the 6th lord need only be considered. Rahu or Ketu in 
the 6th/8th will cause stomachial disorders. 

Ufa I 

6. FACIAL DISEASES : Should the lord of the ascen- 
dant be in a sign of Mars or of Mercury and be aspected 
Meniry, there will be diseases of the face. 

Notes : The lord of the ascendant should be in Aries, 
Scorpio, Gemini or Virgo and be aspected by Mercury. Even 
IF Mars, ruling the ascendant, is in Gemini or in Virgo and is 
aspected by Mercury, the native will suffer facial diseases. The 
occupation can be in any bhava. 

As regards Aries Lagoa and Scorpio Lagna a different look 
be given to the placement of Mars in own sign. For Aries Lagna, 
Mars in Scorpio or for Scorpio Lagna, Mars in Aries and 
aspected by Mercury will not produce the said adversity, unless 
Mars is seriously afflicted otherwise. 



] ^ Prihat Parasara Horn Sastra 

ansTTfatf ^?iq nfe tfijrfh 

' , g w, T ^?TT TTT5 cTST fVf%f?VT?T ltV»ll 

faflT ^ ff^rnRrTfTOT STSft < 

***$** cRT f^Tf^S ^ TTffRT TTjT llcll 
TfeTf^S ?<TTtTvTN fir^RlfcTHeln 

7-8J. LEPROSY : Mars or Mercury having ownership of 
the ascending sign and joining the Moon, Rahu and Saturn, 
will cause leprosy. If the Moon is in the ascendant which is not 
however Cancer and be with Rahu, there will occur white 
leprosy. Saturn in place of Rahu will cause black leprosy while 
Mars similarly will afflict one with blood-leprosy. 

Tf^piiT nfe n&n 
33RW: 5 % TifafT: *T?7?rqir«nrq qri 

fqcf *1*11*1* iigoii 

^or, nfinj *t**tt Tfqcft *fi i 
*1«IWT01T5TTT> ?rm> **:*§*# tfUHT U??H 
^5°! * 03 : TTffTR: I 

^ fa*rfem*t cTricqiR^rkcT: it?^n 

»T>^ cfqf qtftfijfVr: u^u 

9-1 2i. DISEASES IN GENERAL : If the ascendant is 
occupied by the lords of the 6th and 8th along with the Sun, the 
native will be afflicted by fever and tumours. Mars replacing the 
Sun will cause swelling and hardening of the blood vessels and 
wounds and hits by weapons. Mercury so featuring will bring 
in billious diseases while Jupiter in similar case will destroy any 
disease. Similarly Venus will cause diseases through females, 
Saturn windy diseases, Rahu danger through low-castemen 
and Ketu navel diseases. The Moon in such a conjunction will 
inflict dangers through water and phlegmatic disorders. Similar 
estimates be made from the respective significators and Bhavas 
for relatives like father. 

Notes : The hints given above can be summed up as 
under : 



Chapter 17 


155 


Lords of the 6th and 8th 

in the ascendant being 

with the Sun 

: Tumours, fever etc. 


Mars 

: Diseases of blood vessels, 
hits, wounds etc. 

>» 

Mercury 

: Bilious disease (like 
: jaundice). 

» 

Jupiter 

: Freedom from diseases. 


Venus 

: Diseases caused by sexual 
union. 

» 

Saturn 

: Windy diseases like rheu- 
matism, artheritis, 
paralysis etc. 

»> 

Rahu 

: Danger from the so called 
low-caste men. 

*♦ 

Kctu 

: Diseases of the navel. 

»» 

the Moon 

: Drowning, cough, tuberculosis, 
asthma and other lung 
disorders. 


Replacing the ascendant with a certain bhava, these afflic- 
tions to the concerned relatives be predicted. For example, if 
the 6th and 8th lords join the Moon in the 3rd bhava, danger 
to coborn by drowning, lung disorders etc. be known. Should 
Venus join the 6th and 8th lords in the 11th house, an elder 
brother of the native will incur venereal diseases. 

Thus the clues given by the sage should be extensively and 
effectively applied in regard to diseases for the native and his 
relatives. 

The afflictions to be caused by the planets, signs etc. have 
been rather exhaustively given in the notes in ch. 47 of my 
English translation of Sara vs It. Though it was in the context of 
death, the same may be carefully used in knowing diseases as 
well. The reader may accordingly consult the said Notes. 

Dr, H. L. Cornell, M. D., in his ‘Encyclopaedia of Medi- 
cal Astrology* enlists some important diseases under different 
planetary captions. By way of adding useful information for 
the benefit of the inquisitive reader, I quote some as below : 

The San : diseases of the nerves of the brain, cellular 
excitation, blood affliction, weak constitution, dryness, apoplexy, 



156 


Brihat Parasara Rora SaStra 

diseases of arteries, bowel disorders, pimples, skin and throat 
affliction, chronic inflamation, conjuctivities, diphtheria, 
dizziness, dropsy (Hindu astrology relates dropsy to Jupiter), 
fever, fistula, giddiness, glaucoma, violent pains and headaches, 
organic heart troubles, palpitation disorders, hyperanaemia, 
afflictions to excretory and generative systems, measles, obstruct- 
ion in the stomach, quinsy, scrofula, scurvy, sharpness of urine, 
smallpox, disorders of spine, strangury, sunstrokes, swellings in 
neck or feet, tremblings, tumours, venereal distempers etc. 

The Moon : gaseous distention of abdomen, abscesses, 
diseases of alimentary canal, disorders of bladder, blindness, 
disorders of bowels, disorders of the brain substance, bronchial 
disorders, cancer, carditis, catarrh, cellular zymosis, worms in 
children, colds, conjuctivitis, rotten coughs, delirium fRahu is 
the main planet for delirium according to Hindu astrology), 
diarrhoea, irregular menses, menstrual disorders, dyspepsia, 
effusions, epilepsy, eruptions, disorders of eyes, gout in feet, 
osmosis, leucorrhoea, diseases of genctals, defects in haemoglo- 
bin, hysteria, mental ill health, stone in Kidneys (also Venus in- 
dicates this disorder), scrofula, disorders of larynx, disorders of 
breasts, diseases of mucous and serous membranes, miscarriage, 
obstruction of bowels and lungs, phthisis, premature births, 
profluvial effusions, thin blood, disorders of uterus, vomitting 
etc. She will also cause liver defects for women (while Jupiter 
afflicts the male’s liver). 

Mars : death by abortions, disorders of vessels, bleeding, 
excessive menses, boils, affections and pains in breasts, burns, 
bruises, carbuncles, chickenpox, cholera, congestion of blood, 
consumption, contagious fevers, cutaneous eruptions, fatty 
degeneration of the heart, dysentery, epidemics, fractures and 
falls, disorders of geneto-urinary system, gonorrhoea, haemop- 
tysis, hernia, hysteria, itches, loss of blood, hemorrhage of lungs, 
malaria (also under Rahu), ulceration of penis, perityphlitis, 
piles, semitertial fevers, syphilis, extreme heat in throat, tonsils, 
vascular excitement, abscess of vulva, yellow jaundice etc. 

Mercury : nervous complaints, asthma, apoplexy, impure 
blood, disorders caused to brain by overwork, rapid breathing, 
shortness of breathing, colic in the bowels, cramps in the arms, 
shoulders, legs and feet, dumbness, falling fits, flatulent colic, 
gastro abdominal troubles, hyperasthesia, insomnia, neuralgia 



157 


Chapter 17 

in and obstruction of kidneys, paralysis of the nervous system, 
pulmonary diseases, quivering, griplings in stomach, suppression 
of urine, heart tremours, lowering or exhausting of the vital 
fluids of the nerves, worms in bowels etc. 

Jupiter : Jupiter will not cause any disease by himself 
but when afflicted in the figure by adverse heavenly bodies. 
Such are : Adiposis (excessive formation of adipose tissue), 
disorders of adrenals, diseases from corrupt air, alterations in 
the red blood particles, disorders of arterial blood, disorders in 
the back and of backbone, stone in bladder, cancer of the breast, 
cerebral congestion, digestive disorders, dropsy, affections of the 
ear, eczema, tumour of kidneys, disturbances of milk glands, 
fatty degeneration of muscles, plethoric and sthenic distentions, 
potato like cancer, thoracic diathesis, pains in vertebrae, diseases 
of viscera, liver and spleen. 

Venus : comedo, disorders of bowels (like distempers, 
flux and mucus in bowels), breathing disorders (caused by tight 
lacing and indiscretions in dress), Bright’s Disease, poor circulat- 
ion of venous blood, clogging of the system, disorders caused by 
wrong use of cosmetics, diabetes, diphtheria, enlarged tonsils, 
humorous discharge from eyes, skin eruptions and diseases in 
feet, bilious flatulency, hysteria, diseases of kidneys. King’s Eyil, 
diseases of matrix, Night Losses (discharge in sleep), venereal 
disorders, disorders of thorax. Typhus Fever, urine infection, 
etc. 

Saturn : antiperistalsis, arthritis, artieular rheumatism, 
black jaundice, fractures of and pains in bones, chronic bron- 
chitis, impotence, club feet, colds, deafness, dyspnoea, typhoid, 
disorders of foetus and troubles during conception, narrowing 
of passages heart affected by poison, depression in skull, lumpy 
and hard stools, ablation of tonsils, dental diseases etc. 

How to apply these diseases is entirely a different matter. 
The reader will have to make judgements of his based on his 
own experience, and from various angles. 





it; 311 




« 



ratal 

lit YI1 



158 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


* 

site *Rniyin*xM 

gifs^'tafasrsst ^vstM fafafavfa \ 

T>^«TT?T T(cTt Tig: fcfff 11 

nfair »iwTTTfii^ «r»ftr.¥f wurfaan 
stfa^ Tt*mfilf <5 ?RV?T «raTlftftll?Ull 

fairgtfspfa** 5?»iT>i fafsifasT<n 

ftg*srcn^ 'Effg jiSri ?fa^ sfau^n 

tTS^SS^RRsttJ TWJG3 fafafaffa I 

Hfa5T ^TTftlT’T *ffa TOISPTfafa IIKN 

qv>rafsz*qF 3 *TrTTfaifarft *faa u HiU 

13-19}. TIMING OF ILLNESS : The native will be 
afflicted by illness throughout life if Saturn is with Rahu while 
the 6th lord and 6th house are conjunct malefics. One will 
suffer from (severe) fever at the age of 6 and at the age of 12 if 
Mars is in the 6th while the 6th lord is in the 8th. If the Moon 
is in Sagittarius/Pisces while Jupiter is in the 6th from the 
ascendant, one will suffer from leprosy at the age of 19 and 22. 
If Rahu is in the 6th, ascendant lord is in the 8th and Mandi is 
in an angle, consumption will trouble the native at the age of 26. 
Spleenary disorders will be experienced at the age of 29 and 30 
if the lords of 6th and 12th arc in exchange of their signs. 
Saturn and the Moon together in the 6th will inflict blood- 
leprosy at the age of 45. If Saturn is with an inimical planet 
while the ascendant lord is in the ascendant itself windy disorders 
(like rheumatism) will trouble the native at the age of 59. 

TCTVT ftlTlfirf^ 5psraft*R>H^oU 

o 

xTj »j»TRwro i 

STTcTR 3r?«cft fan ! ^ facffa% I 

cTF7 fan"? <lf3fata*nTJ 

20-22. UNFORTUNATE YEARS : Should the Moon be 
conjunct the 6th lord while the 8th lord is in the 6th and the 



Chapter 17 


159 


12th lord is in the ascendant, the native will be troubled by 
animals at the age of eight. O Brahmin, if Rahu is in the 6th 
while Saturn is in the Sth from the said Rahu, the child will 
have danger through fire at the age 1 and 2 while in the 3rd year 
birds will bring some evils. 

?TWTgT STTW gjW: 1 

TRW rRW TRTiW’T I 

JTfawSCTTSW TW U^X.M 

23-25. UNFORTUNATE YEARS (continued) : Danger 
through water will have to be feared during the 5th and the 9th 
years if the Sun is in the 6th or 8th while the Moon is in the 
12th from the said Sun. Saturn in the 8th as Mars is in the 7th 
will cause small-pox, in the 10th year and 30th year of age. 
If 8th lord joins Rahu in an angle/trine from the 8th house and 
be in the Sth in Navamsa, the subject will be troubled by 
swelling of blood vessels, urinary disorders etc, during the 18th 
year and the 22nd year. 

Notes : The evils narrated above relating to the 18ti./22nd 
year of age need some clarification. The 8th lord should be 
conjunct Rahu in the 2nd, 4th, 5th, 1 1th or 12th from the 
ascendant. The said 8th lord should simultaneously be in the 
8th place from the Navamsa ascendant (i.e. in the 8th in 
Navamsa chart). As a result, the native will incur urinary and 
blood vessel disorders in 18th/22nd year of age. 

WTWW T>TW WTR7lf?HT I 

26. LOSS THROUGH ENEMIES : Loss of wealth will 
come to pass during the 31st year if the 11th and 6th lords 
exchange their Rasis. 



j gg Brihal Parasara Hora Sastra 

fTq'flrSR^ *'S*T 1 

sq^Tt flRUT^ OFT faj^rni^U 

27 INIMICAL SONS : One’s own sons will be his enemies 
if the 5th lord is in the 6th while the 6th lord is with Jupiter. 
Simultaneously the 12th lord should be m the ascendant. 

28. FEAR FROM DOGS : There will be fear from dogs 
during the 10th and 19th year if the ascendant lord and the 6th 
lord are in exchange. 


spsj n^'< 


Chapter 18 

Effects Of The Seventh House 

sntn'ffra'Rvf w fs^raxm ! < 

jrunfa^wl^ ^ 9T*nWI?i \\\\\ 

1 O excellent of the Brahmins, listen to me detailing the 
effects of the 7th house. If the 7th lord is in his own sign or in 
exaltation, one will derive full happiness through his wife (and 
marriage), 

f*Rt 1 

ftfrrn! f ^ T u ^ 11 

* 2 SICK WIFE : Should the 7th lord be in the 6th, Sth 

or the 12th, the wife will be sickly. This, however, does not 
apply to own house or exaltation placement as above. 

Notes : The placement of the 7th lord in the 6th/8th/12th 
will cause a sickly wife. (Similarly Venus in an evil house). If 
the said house happens to be exaltation or own sign, then this 



Chapter 18 

need not be feared. For example, Saturn in Capricorn for a 
Leo native or Venus in Pisces for an Aries native. 


<TFT<^ 

3. EXCESSIVE LIBIDINOUSNESS! DEATH OF WIFE : 

If Venus is in the 7th, the native will be exceedingly libidinous. 
Venus joining a malefic in any house will cause .loss of wife. 


<5TTEfTtffan 37 * 


^ Wpll 5 ^ 3T 

a?n ifti *mrf wg*n*if ^ uviu 

4-5. THE 7TH LORD : Should the 7th lord be endowed . 
with strength and be conjunct or be aspected by a benefic, the 
native will be wealthy, honourable, happy and fortunate. 
Conversely, if the 7tb lord is in fall or is combust oris man 
enemy’s sign, one will acquire sick wives and many wives. 

Notes : Plurality of wives and sickness to them will 
come to pass with the 7th lord’s occupying his sign of debilita- 
tion or having got combust or inimical placement There is 
more to the 7th lord for plurality of wives than what it stated, 
as it will be evident from practical experience. However, this 
affliction to the 7th lord will cause delays and disappointments 
in respect of marriage apart from sickness to spouse. If the 
7th lord is in an enemy’s sign, the native’s wife will scarcely 


honour him. 

g sigwif ? rft 

6. PLURALITY OF WIVES : If the 7th lord is in a sign 
of Saturn or of Venus and be aspected by a benefic, there will 
be many wives. Should the 7th lord be particularly in exalta- 
tion, the same effects will come to pass. 


'WFft l 



162 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


TO %^ZTT * * wfapp m I 

q?r ^ tun 

^ gfamt H ? ^TTg i R^f)^T : \ 

7-8 1 . MISCELLANEOUS MATTERS ; The native will 
befriend barren females (for sexual union) if the Sun is in the 
7th. The Moon therein will cause association with such females 
as corresponding to the sign becoming the 7th. Mars placed 
in the 7th will denote association with marriageable girls (or 
those with menses) or with barren females. Mercury indicates 
harlots, mean females and females belonging to traders’ com- 
munity. Wife of a Brahmin or a pregnant female will be in the 
native’s association if Jupiter is in the 7th. Base females and 
females having attained their courses are denoted by Saturn/ 
Rahu/Ketu in the 7th. 

Notes : Any planet in the 7th (including the 7th lord, vide 
ch. 24, sloka 79) is normally indicative of absence of sterling- 
ness in character in the mattet of sexual union. 

If the Sun is in the 7th in a horoscope promising lose 
character, the native will seek pleasures from females who are 
barren. As regards the Moon, the kind of females to sexually 
intercourse with, will correspond to the sign becoming the 7th 
house. For example, when Virgo becomes *he 7th house the 
female is a virgin; Libra prostitutes, Gemini a house wife and 
so on and so forth. Mars in the 7th denotes a female that 
has come of marriageable age or one who is in her monthly 
course or one devoid of conceiving ability. Similarly, in other 
cases. Jnpitcr in the_2lh is also no exception. 

The above results should be declared, only after ensuring 
that the native is primarily disposed to go out of the way for 
sexual union, with the support of other horoscopic indications. 

9-9$. Mars denotes a . female with attractive breasts. 
Saturn indicates sick and weak spouse. Jupiter will bring a 
spouse with hard and prominent breasts while Venus will bring 
one with bulky and excellent breasts. 



Chapter 18 ^ 

Notes : Though tihereisoo specific word in the abovr 
lines to mean "spouse”-* these planets plated to /Shihotise bj: 
occupation, aspect or ownership) willcawsfi: obtaidwentiOf^UCt 
wives. These can also indicate the kind of females .thatetMto 

sexually unites with. -nimH m ugluhni tliw sviiaci udT X 

>.-- r ■■ >f r. . • -^r ra y T; oiemst 

U$sM. to <d 

WfjfcTW: TOTfijfa t sdt ni alidad 

infa$ j ‘ ot 

STSfafro WtfrTHSWXj niw svilsn 

^TTWWfn^ 1 1 % n ^UL r;maid 


qrr tpn^ 

g * fj^^ncvdU|-| T3 ^ B 

10-13J- Malefics in the 12th and 7th while decreasing 
fcloon is in the 5th denote that the native will be controlled by 
his spouse who will be inimical to the race (or family). If the 
^th house is' Occupied or owned by Saturn/Mars, the native 
Will beget a harlot as his spouse of she Will be attached tp Othfer 
men illegally. Should Venus be in a Navamsa of Mars of in a 
Rasi of Mars or be in aspect to or conjunct Mars, the native 
Will “kiss” the private parts of the femalc.,^|f Venus is sQ 
related to Saturn, the native will “kiss” the j private parts of 


the male. niv c gailtugsd avitn/s udi io 1 triisani «i 

]. }0 Notes ; There arc four hints given in ?the above; verses^ 
under : .v,?*jn.'V;d ton u oi. ■■■ 

1. The Moon with decreasing, rays in the 5th house while 

the 12th and the 7th are occupied by '-malefic P§n*ts the 
spouse will be high-handed and >wiH be at loggerhead* -yith the 
family members of the native. j . - ■ 

2. Saturn or Mars in the 'tfh house,' OroWhirtg the 7th 
house * the spouse will be of questionable character/ * While 
the placement of Saturn (and) of : Waii fe the 7th hodse fs bad 
for the character of the spousp. Mars gtf .Spturn ruling the 7th 
house should not simply lead to the fruition of the said effect. 
Cancer, Leo, Taurus and Libra or such ali&hdanls have the 

' 7th . lordship ,of,. Satura.jor c ? se of 

ilX orfj 11 70 , fill I aril to dt8 .dtd wii ot bs>iss&I« ei bnn tilsnai ! ■ 



164 


Brihat Parasara flora Sastra 


these four ascendants, there must be severe affliction to the 
7th from other sources so that the spouse is not chaste in 
character. 

3. The native will indulge in kissing the privities of the 
female if Venus is in a Rasi or Navamsa of Mars, or is aspected 
by or in conjunction with Mars. That is, he will have unusual 
habits in the matter of sexual gratification from the female. 

4. Venus, ^related to Saturn and his divisions instead of 
to Mars and his divisions as stated in point 3 above, the 
native will have ugly relations with another male, for subduing 
his mad lust. 

Tifst u;yii 

rrawirf n?*ti 

14-15. WORTHY SPOUSE : The native will beget a 
spouse endowed with (the seven principal) virtues who will 
expand his dynasty by sons and grandsons if the 7th lord is 
exalted while 'the 7th is occupied by strong ascendant lord and 
a benefic. 

Notes : The above verses hint at the possibility of the 
native obtaining children (and grandch ildren) if the ascendant 
lord with strength is in the 7th with a benefic as the 7th lord 
is disposed in exaltation sign. The combination in question 
is meant for the native begetting a virtuous wife as well. The 
mere exaltation of the 7th lord is capable of bestowing a virtuous 
wife, if not progeny. 

*Tfq i 

16. EVILS TO SPOUSE ,* If the 7th house or its lord is 
conjunct a malefic the native’s wife will incur evils, especially if 
the 7th house or its lord is bereft of strength. 

HfaTTfwft STTtmi 11^1911 

17. LOSS OF SPOUSE : If the 7th lord is devoid of 
strength and is relegated to the 6th, 8th or the 12th, or if the 7th 


Chapter 18 

lord is in fall, the native’s wife will be destroyed (i.e. she will die 
early). 

*Fir train gmfofipfr i 

VTTVt 3TR5ETN*? !T faint II ?<;l| 

18. LACK OF CONJUGAL FELICITY : If the Moon is 
in the 7th as the 7th lord is in the 12th and the Karaka (indicator 
Venus) is bereft of strength, the native will not be endowed with 
marital happiness. 

Notes • The Moon referred to here should obviously be 
decreasing. The Moon increasing, while although the other part 
of the planetary conditions as stated in the sloka is fulfilled, will 
stall the adversity and improve the situation. 

Tl'TST 'TTlTTf^ 1 

VS3|*«<WM ^ t 

T?ernfil^ 

Rite# i 

3TT*T St^RM^pRd: ll^ll 

19-21. PLURALITY OF WIVES : One will have two 
wivts if the 7th lord is in fall, or in a malefic’s sign along with a 
malefic while the 7th house or the 7th Navamsa belongs to a 
eunuch planet. If Mars and Venus are in the 7th or if Saturn is 
in the 7th while the lord of the ascendant is in the 8th, the native 
will have 3 wives. There will be many wives if Venus is in a 
dual sign while its lord is in exaltation as the 7th lord is endowed 
with strength. 

Notes : For a dual marriage, the 7th from the natal ascen- 
dant or the 7th from Navamsa ascendant should be owned by a 
eunuch planet. So to say, Gemini, Virgo, Capricorn or Aquarius 
should be the 7th as above. While this is fulfilled, the 7th lord 
(from natal ascendant) should be in his sign of debilitation or in 
a malefic’s sign along with a malefic. 

. The other two yogas are simple and need no elaboration. 


166 ‘ Brlhat Parasara flora Sastra 

sib iliw s cTf! oi) b^cr?5.^h f»i lllv • ' 

W’Trft 1JH: \ 

43-t**} 5^35% Jg snmft U^U 

22. TllilWoF MfRRlFGE (upto sloka 34) : If the 7th 
-ord is iHaibyn^ftc’s hofSe (5Fin the 9th as subha Rasi so means) 
tyhik Yequpj i& exata^H ^8 in own sign, the native will marry 

rilt// marriage indicated in the text will not 

be practical in all cases in the modern social conditions. These 
^ <^p^ ^)pfnl in knowing of early and belated marriages. 
J^^ejt^jpplj^ .the present sloka should tell us of the possibility of 
jt^riag^ jf n<^ literally at the age of 5 or 9. 

23,J£lteSun is in the 7th while his depositor is conjunct 


Venus, tfiefe will be marriage at 7th or 11th year of age. 

i i\ 

j snmft irvu 

2^Ycs' ! jus * n l ^ e 2nd while the 7th lord is in the 11th will 
give marriage at the age of 10 or 16. 
owl avail 

a rili^ ^RTlftT^ t 

sn^ f^TTti HTt 11^*11 

Marriage will take place during the 11th year if Venus 
is in an angle from the ascendant while the ascendant lord is in 
(Capricorn/Aquarius. 

ipS m\ i 

* n ”, gwfaffrfrti * SUNT* lAqil^ll 

2U p 26. The native will marry at 12 or 19 if Venus is in an 
bugle from the ascendant while Saturn is in the 7th counted 
from Venus. 


JTF^ feSTt* *x: ll^vslk 

27. Should Venus be in the 7th from Moon while Saturn 
is in the 7th from Venus, marriage will be in the 18th year. 



■Chapter 18 167 

sntf ?n'RTrf?i^ \ 

31^ iTy*3FT 5IT^ FTFT^ m: IRcll 

28. Marriage will be in the 1 5th year if the 2nd lord is in 
the 11th while the ascendant lord is in the 10th. 

Q^FI ^TT’fRTftl?# fllM SRTTftm I 

3is| ^5?FT 

29. An exchange between the lords of the 2nd and the 
11th will bring marriage 13 years after birth. 

^sarnsiTfasT'T \ 

£Tf%FT Fraf%FTS& far^T5 5TT: ll^oll 

30. One’s 22nd/27th year will confer marriage if Venus is 
in the 7th from the 8th house (i.e. the 2nd from ascendant), 
while his depositor is conjunct Mars. 

Notes : The Yogas given from this sloka through sloka 34 
will delay one’s marriage as could be easily understood. 

^H-TT*T TT^F^T l 

sretfsrFi *T3?5fFf faii ftfr* imu 

31. Should the 7th lord be in the 12th while the natal 
ascendant lord is in the 7th in Navamsa, marriage will be in 
23rd/26th year of age. 

Notes : The ascendant lord (in Rasi chart) should be in 
the 7th sign in Navamsa chart while the 7th lord in Rasi is in 
the years 1 2th in Rasi to give marriage at 23/2 6 of age. 

F*STFT FT^tFT l 

32. Either the 25th year or the 33rd year will bring 
marriage jf the Sth lord is in the 7th as Venus is in Navamsa 
ascendant. 

FT* TlfFT^ 1 

qvfgrFTTc^fF^rFT TTTsTHF f%fHf?FT<T II ^ 11 

33. Should Venus be in the 9th from the 9th (i.e. in the 



168 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


5th house), while Rahu is in one of the said houses (i.e. in the 
5th/9th), marriage will take place during 31st or 33rd year. 

Hcnf<rai«l ftrsTt? rt: u^yii 

34. The native will marry at 30 or 27 if Venus is in the 
ascendant while the 7th lord is in the 7th itself. 

snarerr srrtchr 113*11 

strut fefafwra ii^it 

JSWTCTO»T> TTf: I 

qtnjfa: U^\3ll 

?nrtrFWwT^ TR^nf fafafawg n^u 
Bt%Vf f^TBR i 

TOtatf 5 Rfmr%?r»^u 

35-39. TIMING OF WIFE'S DEATH : Loss of wife will 
occur in the 18th year or 33rd year of age’ofthe native if the 
7th lord is in fall while Venus is in the 8th. One will lose his 
spouse in his 19th year if the 7th lord is in the 8th while the 
12th lord is in the 7th. The native’s wife will die within three 
days of marriage due to snake bite if the native has Rahu in the 
2nd and Mars in the 7th. If Venus is in the 8th while his 
depositor is in a sign of Saturn, death of wife will take place 
during the native’s Pth or 21st year of age. Should the ascen- 
dant lord be in his sign of debilitation as the 2nd lord is in the 
8th, loss of wife will occur in the 13th year of age. 

TO TOT^rfR^rf 1 

jrt«t iiyou 

jTfatft m fs-rfttf ^ t 

fast? SHR* *TTlf RTS^T *rqf faTO*TUIY$jl 



Chapter 19 


169 


40-41. THREE MARRIAGES : Should the Moon be in the 
7th from Venus while Mercury is in the 7th from the. Moon and 
the 8th lord is in the 5th (from the ascendant), there will be 
marriage in the 10th year followed by another in the 22nd year 
and yet another in the 33rd year. 

^5 ^ TTfHfpifa: I 

42. DEATH OF WIFE : If the 6th, 7th and 8th are in 
their order occupied by Mars, Rahu and Saturn, the native’s 
wife will not live (long). 


3R 3TTn*tfa<T;?tismtt: iiKii 

>3 

Chapter 19 

Effects Of The Eighth House 

1. LONG LIFE : O excellent of the Brahmins, listen to 
me speaking on the effects of the 8th house. If the 8th lord is 
in an angle, long life is indicated. 

3ngPTFnfQ«r: <rmr: awr rifera:! 

911rf 5n%$TtSCinT IRII 

2. SHORT LIFE : Should the 8th lord join the ascendant 
lord or a malefic and be in the 8th itself, the native will be short- 
lived. 


t»?r r? ^if^FTT «prof mfNm: i 

5 T 5 m *rrc»TTg<*: 11311 



170 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 

3. SATURN AND TENTH LORD ABOUT LONGEVITY : 
Similarly consider Saturn and 10th lord in the matter of 
longevity. 

Notes : To get the actual import of this verse, we should 
read it in the context of the previous verse. So to say, short 
life will come to pass if : 

1. The 8th lord is in the 8th along with a malefic or along 
with the ascendant lord or 

2. Saturn joins a malefic/ascendant lord in the 8th house 
or 

3. The 10th lord is in the 8th along with a malefic planet/ 
ascendant lord. 

sHtrnj: uvii 

tpTfrttg' 3^: I IV, II 

srnS ^r^cTTfrTg'? u^n 

JTffam fgg-^Tgqfrn; Srvt^RTT: 1 

eft ^^T^nsgHiTT^TgTrf^TcT ntaii 

4-7. LONG LIFE : There will be long life if the 6th lord 
is in the 12th or if the 6th lord is in the 6th as the 12th lord is 
in the 12th or if the 6th lord and 12th lord are in the ascendant 
and the 8th. If the lords of the 5th, 8th and ascendant are in 
own navamsas, own Rnsis or in friendly signs, the native will 
enjoy a long span of life. Should the lords of the ascendant, 8th 
and 10th and Saturn are all disposed severally in an angle, in a 
trine or in the 1 Ith, the subject will live long. Like these, there 
are many other yogas dealing with the issue of longevity.' The 
strength and weakness of the planets concerned be estimated in 
deciding longevity. 

Notes : In sloka 4, we have three yogas for long life. 
These are : 

1. The 6th lord in the 12th. 


171 


Chapter 19 

2. The 6th and 12th lords simultaneously in the 6th and 
the 12th. 

3. The 6th lord in the ascendant while the 12th lord is in 
the 8th. 

The combinations given in the other two verses are quite 

clear. 

WWTfU'Ieft 1 

ftmsqfGtral sftt* ?lf^«T7*nfq*nit;U 

W3*T Util 

sqt* *fcm^ni*ou 

qroi: spri: nfe i 

5ITH: *Rlt »Jeft *T^cT II \\\\ 

qiqtfg^ i 

Ttqqt*f<il* ?*rciimg: q^m^ii^u 

T?W9T T?CT7Tf?Tf$ WJ qmqfN^ I 

8-13. SHORT LIFE : One’s span of life will be between 
20 and 32 years if the ascendant lord is weak while the 8th lord 
is in an angle. The native will only be short-lived if the 8th 
-lord is in fall while the 8th has a malefic in it and the ascendant 
lord is bereft of strength. Death will be instant at birth if the 
8th house, 8th loi;d and the 12th house are all conjunct malefics. 
Malefic in angles/trines and bencfics in 6th/8th while the ascen- 
dant has in it the 8th lord in fall : this yoga will cause immedi- 
ate end. If the 5th house, 8th house and the 8th lord are all 
conjunct malefics, the life span will be very brief. Within a 
month of birth, death will befall the child if the 8th lord is in 
the 8th itself while the Moon is with malefics and be bereft of 
beneficial aspect. 

Notes : If the 8th lord is in an angle, the native -will be 
long-lived, according to sloka 1 of the present chapter. The 
ascendant lord bereft of strength, in such a case, will reduce the 



172 


brlhat Parasara Bora Sasira 


life span as per verse 8 above. Hence it follows that the 8th 
lord s good disposition is alone not enough, but the power of 
ascendant lord is a simultaneous need, for a long life 

Insloka 12 it is stated that 8th lord should be in fall in 
the ascendant. For no ascendant, the 8th lord is debilitated in 

falTthe'm'rqth^ 13 ^ r ib,e Wheaon, y ‘he 8th bhava 

bilily of the 8 t h cusp fai.in* £ C L 

Venus cau be debilitated in Virgo, the ascending sign', Othert 
wise, by signs it is not possible. 

Hpnnt S , h0U ' d ; he u 8th lord be ia 8th, long life to the native is 

malei J u u simultaneous| y the Moon is captured by a 
mlefic and be without any help from a benefic, then early evils 
to life span will have to be predicted, vide sioka 13 above. 

m «r««r: itfvu 

fw: tank* ^ot:i 

tR: xwjt: ?rru sprain 

•udlongliS’ ' " m ' Xn “ 6 virtuous 

Notes : Even if Jupiter is lonely well-placed in the fiih 

the"™’ U l adS t0 “ l0ng Span ° f Iife If he is further helped by 
the Moon being, a the 11th house and by the ascendantWH 
exaltation, doubtlessly the life will be exceedingly 1^ 


CLASSICS (Text 


with English Translation 


4U (? 

V NIDHI 


Volumes set) _ 
- Hama Dayalu 


Kalyanavarma 


3T*T tfnuoTra'lSSTTSqR: ll^oll 

Chapter 20 

Effects Of The Ninth House 

5 T«T STFtTSrm f% 5 T ! <Rvf cT^TS^: i 
tfTSRt’RT*^ 'ffT^STTcft wrr^r^cft Tff%cTH$n 
w«Hr*<H«i% 30% treta! %^srffqr% i 

^T?T ^TTFfPTcft WT ll^tt 

1-2. COMBINATIONS FOR FORTUNES ": O Brahmin, 
now listen to effects of the 9th house. One will be fortunate (or 
affluent) if the 9th lord is in the 9th with strength. Should 
Jupiter be in the 9th house while 9th lord is in an angle and the 
ascendant lord is endowed with strength, one will be extremely 
fortunate. 

Notes : “Bhagyasthana” is a name given to the 9th house. 
“Bhagya” denotes fortunes, affluence etc. Hence from the 9th 
house, one’s capacity to retain the wealth earne d should be 
studied. 

fqrTl STRT?mf^?T: |^|| 

3. FORTUNATE (AFFLUENT) FATHER : If the 9th 
lord is with strength as Venus is in the 9th while Jupiter is in an 
angle from the ascendant, the native’s father is fortunate. 

fqrTT t^rf^H^ll 

4. INDIGENT FATHER ; If the 9th lord is debiltated 
while the 2nd/4th from the 9th is occupied by Mars, the native’s 
father is poor. 

Notes : It is stated that Mars in the 10th or 12th from 
the ascendant (i.e. the 2nd or the 4th from the 9th) while the 



174 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


9th lord is in debilitation denotes poverty of wealth for the 
father. Even if there be some wealth of the father, Mars in 
the 10th/12th (not being in own house or in exaltation) will 
make the native disinherit patrimony or enter into litigations. 
Soto say, such patrimony will not come to the hands of the 
native, that too easily. 

?rf^TT ifhnforc: 11*11 

5. LONG LIVING FATHER : Should the 9th lord be in 
deep exaltation while Venus is in angle from the ascendant and 
Jupiter is in the 9th from Navamsa Ascendant, the father of the 
native will enjoy a long-span of life. 

gw ^ 1 

wafqen qr^qqti) ttut st wra \\\n 

6. ROYAL STATUS FOR FATHER : If the 9th lord is 
an angle in aspect to Jupiter, the native’s father will be a king 
endowed with conveyances or be equal to a king. 

7. WEALTHY AND FAMOUS FATHER : Should the 
lord of the 9th be in the 10th while the 10th lord being aspected 
by a benefic the native’s father will be very rich and famous. 

qq^TrfTeq: fqtTmrft V&TXX: ||e;ll 

spqTfawWi *?q i 

gw af?# fqmrfaeremffqH: ntu 

8-9. VIRTUOUS AND DEVOTED TO FATHER : Should 
the Sun be in deep exaltation as the 9th lord is in the 11th, the 
native will be virtuous, dear to king and devoted to father. If 
the Sun is in a trine from the ascendant while the 9th lord is in 
the 7th in conjnction with or in aspect to Jupiter, the native will 
be devoted to his father. 



Chapter 20 175 

WTTqTrf^ l 

firwr^TTcTt qTR *>feHT«R: 11? oil 

10. FORTUNES ETC. : Aquisition of fortunes, convey- 
ances and fame will follow the 32nd year of age if the 9th lord 
is in the 2nd while the 2nd lord is in the 9 th. 

s^ifrqph: jfemt q|?ui??n 

11. INIMICAL TO FATHER ; There will be mutual 
enmity between the father and the native if the ascendant lord is 
in the 9th but with the lord of the 6th. Further, the native’s 
father will be of contemptible disposition. 

H%T> fsrc^mtsfa fafo: i 

qinrot qtn> fwTFRsra: u?^n 

12. BEGGED FOOD : If the 10th lord and 3rd lord are 
both bereft of strength while the 9th lord is in fall or in combus- 
tion, the native will go abegging for his food. 

STR 1 

JTpftr eTTqnfaisq qt5?T f?*R ll?3H 

3ncTPq SRtTTe^q 3R*?q FfcTF^rT I 

gif qrmTRThi?vn 

STTeTR SJSRlsi 3 fq^HT^rnTf^IrT 1 

5qt>*T qTRTTftTfq H>^Nt ll?V.U 

fleffa m 3Rfi?q I 

a t N 

?T^Tr JTTTPrTfVlFq T?sNt 
fScftd 5R*T qq fagqWTTfesfa I 

qTRTJFETtR TT^y qTRRqF*FR *qhl?UU 
til *yi jKttttt qq qfqqqq i 

e > 

TTgWT Hq qfJTT^Fqqq *R* ll?5i| 

cTTcfFT *TTq £R*T 1 

s» > 

srn^sT sqqrrf?T?^ qnqrif^rr u?s.u 



176 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


fagiT^^PTTfa*frT I 

^ sp^ir TOniqa iRou 

JTTif fa§: | 

t^gf^PTlfu^ *Tf3f^JTOTTf^^ U ^ ? II 

'T^^TTTIc^T 5TTC# 5H*7f?J *TfcTO3rT I 

«■ 'N 

*mUTcT *T<?m q5 ^nqfftcraTOPT: IR^U 
ncssst Ts^fa^rr^ fag*hqmfa7TT t 
T*R3Ufa^>T *Ft qKfT^nfaW'T T3> U^ll 

ssfatf sr^ nfirtan' 

H C s 

ITT^ST rTC^T *WTOf?m 113*1) 

WfrjrSi* fa^WTlfesirr \ 

3* 3TT?mi 5TTRT f^^finirT ll^SOI 

13-25. COMBINATIONS FOR FATHER'S DEATH : The 
father of the native would have passed away prior to the native’s 
birth if the Sun is in the 6th/8th/12th as the 8th lord is in the 
9th, the 12th lord is in the ascendant, and the 6th lord is in the 
5th house. Should the Sun be in the 8th while the 8th lord is in 
the 9th, the native’s father will pass away within a year of his 
birth. If the lord of the 12th is in the 9th while the 9th lord is in 
debilitation Navamsa, the native’s father will face his end during 
the 3rd/16th year of the native. Death of father will occur in 
the 2nd or 12th year if the ascendant lord is in the 8th as the 8th 
lord is with the Sun. Should Rahu be in the 8th from the 9th 
(i.e. 4th from the ascendant) as the Sun is in the 9th from the 
9th (i.e. 5th from the ascendant), death of father will take place 
in the 16th/ 1 8th year of the native. If Saturn is in the 9th from 
the Moon as the Sun is with Rahu, the native’s father will die in 
the 7th or the 19th year of the native. The native in his 44th 
year will lose his father if the 9th lord is in the I2th as the I2th 
lord is in the 9th. If the ascendant lord is in the 8th as the 
Moon in the Sun’s Navamas, the native in his 35th/41st year 
will lose his father. One will lose his father in the 50th year if 
the Sun, being the lord of the 9th, is conjunct Mars and Saturn. 
If the Sun is in the 7th from the 9th (i. e. 3rd from the ascen- 
dant) as Rahu is in the 7th from the 3rd (i.e. 9th from the 



Chapter 20 


177 


ascendant), the 6th/25th year of the native will be fatal for 
father. If Saturn is in the 7th from the 8th (i. e. 2nd from the 
ascendant) as the Sun is in the 7th from Saturn (i.e. 8th from 
the ascendant), the ages of 30, 21 or 26 will be fatal for the 
father. If the 9th lord is in debilitation while his depositor is 
in the 9th, the native will lose his father at 26 or 30. Thus the 
astrologers may know the effects (of the 9th house). 

q^-^TTO t 

^ srfag# wf'fnmTfinfl tot ii^ii 

26. FORTUNES : One will enjoy abundant fortunes if 
Venus is in deep exaltation and be in the company of the 9th 
lord as Saturn is in the 3rd. 

g^TT TO# rTT^?T I 

wnroftisr i 

TOfTOTTO qr TO Tgm«T fa fa fa TO 

27-28. FORTUNATE PERIODS : Abundant fortunes 
will be acquired after the 20th year if the 9th has Jupiter in it as 
its lord is in an angle from the ascendant. Should Mercury be 
in his deep exaltation as the 9th lord is in the 9th itself, abundant 
fortunes will be earned after the 36th year. 

*TTOTrfVlT# TOTTO# I 

i 

to# g# 

29. Should the ascendant lord be in the 9th as the 9th lord 
is in the ascendant, and Jupiter is in the 7th, there will be gains 
of wealth and conveyances. 

ITTOTqTOTOTt f#ER *1# I 

*TTOTt;: II ^ oil 

30. LACK OF FORTUNES : If Rahu is in the 9th from 
the 9th (i. e. 5th from the ascendant), as his depositor is in the 
8th from the ascendant and the 9th lord is in fall, the native 
will be devoid of fortunes. 



Brihat Parasara flora Sastara 

srftpn ^ qrr fc gfl \ 

*T^7Tftl^ f^r^TT?ft ^ ||^ || 

3t . FOOD BY BEGGING ; Should Saturn be in the 9th 
along with the Moon as the ascendant lord is in fall, the native 
will acquire food by begging. 


Wm-fl fffST ! awnra vf^ff tTtTT \ 
vrtmun HIM til fwwrsarefo 

32. O Brahmin, these are the effects related to the 9th 
house. I have explained (these) briefly. These may be (further) 
estimated with the help of the state of the lords of the ascendant 
and 9tn and in other manners as welj. 


3T«T fnf*TT^5tTSqra: l|^?U 


Chapter 21 

Effects of The Tenth Mouse 


*TU W^r-TTffff^wrf^^ || ^ti 


hi now explain the effects of the 10th house. Listen to 
these, O Maitreya, in the words of Brahma, Garga and others 
Notes : Statements like “Brahma Gargadi Bhashitam” go to 
prove that sage Parasara, had access to such expositions of 
Lord Brahma wh,ch would not be possible to an ordinary 
mortal. The history of Parasara has been explained in the notes 
for the initial slokas of ch. I supra and ch. 41 infra. 


sr*rffT%?r 1 


and h 2 ‘ PAT l RNAL HAPPINESS : If the 10th lord is strong 
and be in exaltation or ,n own Rasi/Navamsa, the native will 



Chapter 21 lJg 

derive extreme paternal happiness, will enjoy fame and will 
perform good deeds. 

Notes : Though the word “Karma” means deed, it 
actually in the context of astrology denotes one's profession 
job, livelihood etc. The 10th house rules one’s patrimony’ 
paterna 1 happiness, last offices to father and such other matter 
while the 9th house, as explained earlier deals with one’s father 


3. If the 10th lord is devoid of strength, the native will 
face obstructions in his work. IfRahu is in an angle or in a 
trine, he will perform religious sacrifices like Jyotishtoma. 

Notes : Should Rahu be strongly disposed in an angle or 
in a trine, the native will perform “Jyotishtoma." This is Soma 
sacrifice deemed as a whole class of sacrificial ceremonies 
consisting of sixteen vedic rites. To wit, the native will be 
extremely religious and meritorious. 


^ ^ rTRT I 

4. If the 10th lord is with a benefic or be in an auspicious 
house, one will always gain through royal patronage and in 
busmess. In a contrary situation, only opposite results will 
come to pass. 

Notes : Should the 10th lord be with a benefic or in a 
benefic’s Rasi, the native will ever gain in his undertakings with 
the king (i.e. in his calling). "3Fipm,-zpsn-” means that if the 
10th lord is with a malefic or in a malefic’s Rasi, the native will 
be a loser in his calling and will not serve the king (or a worthy 
person). The short and the long of the verse is to convey the 
idea that the 10th lord should be related to a benefic’s sign for a 

happy and prosperous calling. Connections with a malefic will 
cause grief. 

tin* tphtto* HHT qpmnfntfh 



180 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


5. Should the 10th and 11th be both occupied by malefics 
the native will indulge only in bad deeds and will defile his own 
men. 

tflWfAlrf TTg«TT ?T«tT I 

6. If the lord of the 10th is relegated to the 8th along with 
Rahu, the native will hate others, be a great fool and will do 
bad deeds. 

Notes : The 8th house occupied by Rahu in the company 
of the 10th lord will spoil professional happiness of the native 
apart from making him perform questionable and foolish deeds 
as well as incurring misconceptions with one and all 

ffTFtUT'HiqoT: u^h 

7. If Saturn, Mars ana the 10th lord are in the 7th as the 
7th lord is with a malefic, the native will be fond of carnal 
pleasures and of filling his belly. 

Notes : The effects for the combination as above are 
described by the words “Sisnodara Parayana “ (fsiWftr^TCHP’T: ) 
and as far as I understand, the meaning is as above. (Sisna= 
male organ, Udara—belly.) 

fRinfacn pstjfr i 

*TPTWfsi?TmW lletll 

vs 

«nf*r gw«n^*nii4i ^ ntii 
?n* frvnr: 11 \o\\ 

8-10. Should the 10th lord be in exaltation and be in the 
company of Jupiter as the 9th lord is in the 10th the native will 
be endowed with honour, wealth, and valour. One will lead a 
happy life if the 11th lord is in the 10th and the 10th lord is iD 
the ascendant or if the lords of the 10th and 11 th are conjunct 



Chapter 21 


181 


in an angle. Should the 10th lord in strength be in Pisces along 
with Jupiter, the native will doubtless obtain robes, or nam ents 
and happiness. 

*T«'*rm* t 

***** Vh^ssvti n^ii 

11. Should Rahu, Sun, Saturn and Mars be in the Uth, 
the native will incur cessation of his duties. 

Notes : The 4 planets, viz. the Sun, Mars, Rahu and 
Saturn joining in the 11th house will ensure that the native will 
not be successful in his performance. As a consequence, he will 
not have a happy calling or profession worth the name, and 
will gain nothing. 

12. One will be learned and wealthy if Jupiter is in Pisces 
along with Venus while the ascendant lord is strong and the 
Moon is in exaltation. 

Notes : stst means learning in the normal context. 
Apart, this denotes sacred knowledge derived from meditation 
on the higher truths of religion and philosophy which instructs 
the seeker how to understand his own nature within him and to 
reunite with the Almighty avoiding reincarnation. This » 
taught by jTRrfPr (Gnana yoga). Jupiter and Venus joining in 
Pisces (the terminal house, denoting final emancipation) will 
endow the native with such supreme knowledge. The lord of 
the ascendant simultaneously joining the exalted Moon renders 
the mind fertile enough to produce knowledge of one's own self. 
For one cannot attain the Lord without first knowing what he 
himself is. Material wealth will also come to the native as a 
by-product of the planetary configuration in question. So to 
say one will be spiritually and materially wealthy. 



182 Brihat Parasara tiora Sastrd 

13. Should the 10th lord be in the 11th while the 11th 
lord is in the ascendant and Venus is in the 10th, the native 
will be endowed with precious stones. 

Notes : To wit the planets so disposed as mentioned in 
the sloka will confer a huge influx of material wealth on the 
native. 


14. If the lord of the 10th is exalted in an angle or a 
trine and be in the company of or in aspect to Jupiter, one will 
be endowed with (worthy) deeds. 

srnrqiisr^ a«taT?r 

15. Should the 10th lord be in the ascendant along with 
the ascendant lord as the Moon is in an angle or in a trine, the 
native will be interested in good deeds. 

W'$ \ 

16. If Saturn is in the 10th along with a debilitated planet 
while the 10th from Navamsa ascendant is occupied by a 
malefic, the native will be bereft of (virtuous) acts. 

fPRTT HTYKlflU^ I 

|R5lf faTrft 

17. One will indulge in bad acts if the 10th lord is in the 
8th while the 8th lord is in the 10th with a malefic. 

W.WK iftaTTfilW <TTW^f I 

U?i;U 

18. Obstructions to the native’s acts will crop up if the 
10th lord is in fall, as both the 10th house from the ascendant 
and the 10th from the 10th (i.e. 7th from the ascendant) have 
malefic occupations. 



Chapter 22 1 I £3 

vjf crdtf I 

ST 1 ^ %SiT»f ra^'4 1R<T||{&|| 

Nnrgw ^efcji^on 

*»»««*iHfifii^ ^%?t *nro>j^ 1 

5Tnn 5 *T5^TT*T ^f£ ^JJki'twT *T> Htfa ll^$l» 

19-2 L COMBINATIONS FOR FAME: One will be endowed 
with fame if the Moon is in the 10th while the 10th lord is in a 
trine from the 10th and the ascendant lord is in ascendant’s 
angle. Similar effects will come to pass if the 1 1th lord is in 
the 10th while the 10th lord is strong and be in aspect to 
Jupiter. Fame will come to the native if the 10th lord is in 
the 9th as the ascendant lord is in the 10th and the Moon Is in 
the 5th from the ascendant. 

v star fNhroh 

22. O excellent of the Brahmins, thus have been told about 
the effects of the 10th house in a brief manner. Other related 
effects be guessed by you based on the relationship of the lords 
of the ascendant and of the 10th, 


3t«r 5rm*rFTO?TTstTnT: ir^u 

Chapter 22 

Effects Of The Eleventh House 

Ttwfa %3TtfT* Jl 
«J5?TT 3TTcT^ ?fr% Am 

1. O excellent of the Brahmins, I now explain effects 
relating to the 1 1th house, the auspiciousness of which bhava will 
make one happy at all times. 



284 


Brihat ParasQra Hora Sastra 

*RT cTT^ f?fc&T %f5fq^tnqt: | 

IgtTTW CRT $qff5% $qf?rnbfq srril^ll 

2. Should the 11th lord be in the 11th itself or be in an 
angle or in a trine from the ascendant, there will be many gains. 
Similarly if ihe 11th lord is exalted, though in combustion, 
there will he many gains. 

Notes : The second line of the above verse deserves a 
proper approach, means “although in combustion or 

having lost rays in the Sun”. The word “srfir” meaning 
“although” in this context deters the otherwise possible interpr- 
etation as “Sun’s Navamsa or Sun's Rasi” which of course will 
be an extreme rendering. To wit, the correct import is that even 
though the 1 1th lord is combust but be in exaltation the native 
will gain abundantly. 

P«tt jrih fcftfaicui^u 

3. If the 11th lord is in the 2nd while the 2nd lord is in 
angle (from the ascendant) along with Jupiter, the gains will be 
great. 

qjfspq STRT *nr^mf?T<S4>TTRJ ||V|| 

4. If the 11th lord is in the 3rd while the 11th is occupied 
by a benefic, the native will gain 2000 Nishkas in his 36th year. 

Notes i means in the Bhava or house in question, 

i.e. the llth bhava and not the 3rd bhava. Since already 
prececds, to mean “in the 3rd house” will be redundant. 

(Nishka) though meaning a gold coin was generally 
taken to indicate one Karsha or Su varna of 16 Mashas. This 
also denotes a certain weight of gold in the hoary days. The 
sage thus obviously hints at the opulence of the native in varied 
measures by quantifying the resultant Nishkas according to the 
merits of the planetary formations at birth. 


%Rf*qrN»T *IT*RT*T ^TTTT i r fRcf I 



Chapter 22 


185 


5. If the 1 1th lord is conjujct a benefic in an angle or in a 
trine (from the ascendant), the native will acquire 500 Nishkas ■ 
in his 40th year. 

gw u* i 

6. The native will own 6000 Nishkas if the 1 1 th is occu- 
pied by Jupiter while the 2nd and 9th are respectively taken over 
by the Moon and Venus by position. 

fPraTOTftw UVSII 

7. Should Jupiter, Mercury and the Moon be in the 11th 
from the 1 1th (i.e. 9th from the ascendant) the native will be 
endowed with wealth, grains, fortunes, diamonds, ornaments etc. 

5Tm?T WKTTWW | 

5 VRH Hell 

8. One will gain 1000 Nishkas in his 33rd year if the 11th 
lord is in the ascendant and the ascendant lord is in the 1 1th. 

targrroam fnTif%5rr?T ntn 

9. If the nth lord is in the 2nd as the 2nd lord is in the 
11th, one will amass abundant fortunes after marriage. 

^tlr!'fn3i4nMin<ir<c^n^7*n^^T: 11^ oil 

10. If the 11th lord is in the 3rd as the 3rd lord is in the 
11th, one will gain wealth through co-born and be endowed 
with excellent ornaments. 

OTTTOT cfT fs% <n«i*rofa& l 

to ii^ii 

11* There will be no gains in spite of numerous efforts if 
the 11th lord is in fall, in combustion or be in the 6th/8th/I2th 
with a malefic. 



Chapter 23 

Effects Of The Twelfth House 

ou^nnTT ««t fg*rh 

*1*1**# .pftlTOtsfq 9111(11 

^ ^ ST'fTRtjq^ *J9¥T9 JMAtfdi! I 

5wfa«ft tm?rmR*9<T tffcmiRii 
^=6^ fastfST 9r m*TU*rfc*T^T?I% 1 
foqmiTTfiratf^v u\u 

<TTruiTTT’»!> | 

qTf«4fimflqeft f%5Tt fa^Tfa ST1J: IIVII 

1-4. 0 Brahmin, now I tell you about the effects of the 
12th house. There will be expenses on good accounts if the J 2th 
lord is with a benefic, or be in own house or be exalted or if a 
benefic occupies the 12th. One will own beautiful houses 
and beds and be endowed with superior scented articles and 
.pleasures if the Moon happens to be the 12th lord and be 
exalted or be in own sign/Navamsa or in the 1 lth/9th/5th in 
Rasi/Navamsa. The said native will live with rich clothes, and 
ornaments, be learned and lordly. 

tFqwftamssCTm i 

flfrsRT: STTcf HUH 

«JtnfawrfT*vir?T i 

R fj! *999 h^h 

5-6. And if the 12th lord is in the 6th/8th or be in enemy's 
Navamsa, debilitation Navamsa or in 8th in Navamsa, one will 
be devoid of happiness from wife, be troubled by expenses and 
deprived of general happiness. If he be in an angle/trine, the 
native will beget a spouse. 



Chapter 23 


187 


«ft?rrf^iTT%q srices nvsii 

7. Just as these effects are derived from the ascendant in 
regard to the native, similar deductions be made about co-born 
etc. from the 3rd and other houses. 

Notes : Hints arc given here to know from the native’s 
horoscope the effects related to his co-born, uncles etc. For 
example, brother’s finances from the 4th house (2nd from the 
3rd), brother’s marriage from the 9th house (7th from the 3rd), 
father’s health from the 2nd house (6th from the 9th), mother’s 
health from the 9th (6th from the 4th), wife’s spending nature 
from the 6th house (i.e. 12th from the 7th) and so on and so 
forth. Proceeding on these lines, we can see the possibility of 
predicting many important events for other relatives from the 
native’s horoscope itself. 

^2-t: 1 

t&ST: qfftff FRrTT: Hell 

8. Planets placed in the visible half of the zodiac will give 
explicit results while the ones in the invisible half will confer 
secret results. 

Notes : Visible half is the half of the zodiac within s range 
of 180 degrees from the ascendant’s cusp seen backwards. The 
other half is invisible. 

A planet in the visible half of the zodiac will be more 
potential in effects while in the invisible half it is less potential 
and unmanifest. 

TrTff tq&T ||£|| 

9. If Rahu is in the 12th along with Mars, Saturn and the 
Sun, the native will go to hell. Similar effect will occur if the 
12th lord is with the Sun. 

Notes : The 12th house relates to one's fate after death. 
Whether he will reincarnate, or attain infernal region or the 
Lotus Feet of the Lord will have to be studied from the 12th 
house. In this connection, refer to ch. 26 of Horasara also. 



188 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 

cnfNi 

|& *ter: fui?fTT5r tm*: m<>n 

10. If there is a benefic in the 12th while its lord is exalted 
or is conjunct or aspected by a benefic, one will attain final 
emancipation. 

*rf«£ frnf*n;?T7 

11. One will wander from country to country if the 12th 
lord and 12th house are with malefics and be in aspect to 
malefics. 

*rwi^»r 

12. One will move in his own country if the 12th lord and 
12th house are with benefics and be in aspect to benefics. 

Notes i In the previous sloka and the present one, clues 
are given to know as to whether one will be in his own place or 
outside the native place. If the 12th house and its lord are 
connected with benefics, one will progress in his own place while 
he will wander hither and thither f without progress) if 12tb lord 
and 12th bouse are spoilt by malefics. 

*T**rfa*i^ tfRfaR* i 

13. Earnings will be through sinful measures if the 12tb is 
occupied by Saturn or Mars etc, and be not aspected by a 
benefic. 

14. If the ascendant lord is in the 12th while the 12th 
lord is in the' ascendant with Venus, expenses will be on religious 
grounds. 



ST«T *TIsrei<PfTSJT?!T: IP? VI l 


Chapter 24. 

Effects Of The Bhava Lords 

f^rmf <re»ftsfa *ttu?u 

1. EFFECTS OF ASCENDANT LORD IN VARIOUS 
HOUSES (upto sfoka 12) : Should the ascendant lord be in the 
asecndant itself, the native will be endowed with physical 
happiness (i.e. good health) and prowess. He will be intelli- 
gent, fickle-minded, will have two wives and will unite with 
other females. 

Notes : The position of the ascendant lord in the 
ascendant itself will make the native fearless and longlived. 

er*t vtnptpt i 

s o 

2. If the lord of the ascendant is in the 2nd, he will be 
gainful, scholarly, happy, endowed with good qualities, be 
religious, honourable and will have many wives. 

Notes : The native having the ascendant lord in the 2nd 
house will face obstacles in obtaining progeny and thus he will 
be left with a longing for issues. He will further become wealthy 
through his own efforts. 

tffpT STTcT: 1 

*TRt wsfhi^u 

3. If the lord of the ascendant is in the 3rd, the native 
will equal a lion in valour, be endowed with all kinds of wealth, 
be honourable, will have two wives, be intelligent and happy. 



190 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


Notes : Should the 3rd house contain the ascendant lord, 
one will be equal to a king, respected by others and will indulge 
in unnatural methods of sexual gratification. 

’jq^WTfarrT; IIVII 

4. If the ascendant lord is in the 4th, the native will be 
endowed with paternal and maternal happiness, will have many 
brothers, be lustful virtuous and charming. 

Notes : With the ascendant lord in (he 4th house, the 
native is of a noble descent. He will prosper by his own efforts. 
He will be ambitious and beautiful. Prosperity will come to 
him easily. He will ever enjoy physical felicity. 

STWPTrqqTVT: qqfaq: UX.U 

5. If the ascendant lord is in the 5th, the native will have 
mediocre progenic happiness, will lose his first child, be 
honourable, given to anger and be dear to king, 

qesq 3TTrrt I 

qtqi^ vnjrT: . qteT 

6. If the ascendant lord is in the 6th and related to a 
malefic the native will be devoid of physical happiness, and will 
be troubled by enemies if there is no benefic aspect. 

Notes : The ascendant lord going to the 6th house will 
mar the prospects of health. However, for Scorpio and Taurus 
ascendant, it will be a felicitous augury for freedom from 
diseases. 

The 6th house position of Lagna Lord in general will give 
abundant wealth and respect apart from royal status. There is, 
however, a possibility of more than one marriage or losing the 
spouse early. 

<tt^ qrof ftft q sftefa i 

qr ST ;jqtefq trmoii 



Chapter 24 


191 

7. If the ascendant lord is a malefic and be in the 7th the 
native’s wife will not live (long). If the planet in question be a 
benefic, one will wander aimlessly, face penury and be dejected. 
He will alternatively become a king (if the said planet is strong). 

^TTrT: fegfirsufeSTR^t I 

^ «1T^RTT: tic 1 1 

8. If the ascendant lord is in the 8th, the native will be an 
accomplished scholar, be sickly, thievish, be given to much 
anger, be a gambler and will join others’ wives. 

Notes : The only good effect of the ascendant lord being 
in the 8th house is one’s academic accomplishment. This 
position will cause Balarishta or child mortality. The native’s 
health will be poor. He will be a repository of misfortunes. 
He will sec many deaths in the family to his grief. His married 
life will be a hell. He will be a profligate and will incur ill- 
fame and disrepute. Penury will ever be after him. 

In case of Aries and Libra ascendant, this approach for 
evil results should be avoided and results declared after further 
scanning the radix. 

smtTir sTtcft i 

||£ 1 | 

9. If the ascendant lord is in the 9th, the native will be 
-fortunate, dear to people, be a devotee of Sri Vishnu, be skilful, 
eloquent in speech and be endowed with wife, sons and wealth. 

Notes : One will gain abundantly from his father. Every 
undertaking of his will be fruitful. He will be well-disposed to 
his co-born, These are additional results of the ascendant lord 
occupying the 9th house. 

vT'%9T 371^ 3TTcT: | 

5 T% sum: RfTfafTRit T 113 oil 

10. If the ascendant lord is in the 10th, the native will be 
endowed with paternal happiness, royal honour (or patronage), 
fame among men and will doubtlessly have self-earned wealth. 



192 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


Notes : The 10th house occupied by the ascendant lord 
denotes obtainment of co*bom. The native "will possess ambi- 
tions and will prosper in his pursuits. 

mmt «hri: wnnrnfanKi 

11. If the ascendant lord is in the 1 1th, the native will 
always be endowed with gains, good qualities, fame and many 
wives. 

II^D 

12. If the ascendant lord is in the 12th and be devoid of 
benefic aspcct/conjunction, the native will be bereft of physical 
happiness, will spend unfruitfully and be given to much anger. 

Notes : If the ascendant lord is in the 12th, the native’s 
life will not be prosperous. He will be addicted to gambling, 
thieving, debauchery and other vices. He will expend 

wastefully. 

»TRT: V 

13. EFFECTS OF 2ND LORD IN VARIOUS HOUSES 
(upto sloka 24) : If the 2nd lord is in the ascendant, the native 
will be endowed with sons and wealth, be inimical to his family, 
lustful, hard-hearted and will do others’ jobs. 

Notes : One will be fraudulent and will face financial 
upheavals with the lord of the 2nd occupying the ascendant. 
These evil effects will not wholly apply to Capricorn ascendant, 
but with some modifications. 

*ra**a: i 

14. If the 2nd lord is in the 2nd, the native will be wealthy, 
proud, will have two or more wives and be bereft of progeny. 



193 


Chapter 24 

sriHt toft »rf?r*rf5f ^ \ 
vruTvihft ^qrn^t nt mi 

15. If the 2nd lord is in the 3rd, the native will be 
valorous, wise, virtuous, lustful and miserly— all these when 
related to a benefic. If related to a malefic, the native will be a 
heterodox. 

Notes : Should the 2nd lord be in the 3rd house, t'ie 
native will be ill-related to females and will earn through pro*a- 
tutes. If a malefic is related to the 2nd lord in the 3rd, the 
person concerned will not be God-fearing and will have dirty 
conduct. 

gv»n 

16. If the 2od lord is in the 4th, the native will acquire all 
kinds of wealth. If the 2nd lord is . exalted and be conjunct 
Jupiter, one will be equal to a king. 

Notes : The placement of the 2nd lord in the 4th will also 
produce a heterodox and one of questionable character. 

The exaltation of the 2nd lord in the 4th applies only to 
Libra ascendant Obviously the sage suggests that the exaltation 
of Mars in the company af Jupiter (in debilitation) in the 4th 
house will prove extremely favourable for a Libra native confe- 
rring near-re galhood. It is also not unmeaningful to conclude 
that the 2nd lord exalted and joining Jupiter becoming a good 
omen for any ascendant. 

srni^ 

17. If the 2nd lord is in the 5th the native will be wealthy. 
Not only the native, but also his sons, will be intent on earning 
wealth. 

Notes : The 2nd lord going to the 5th house will make 
one resort to trickery. His family life will not be happy. He 
will not be kind to others. He will be very lustful and will be 
prone to lose a child prematurely. 


194 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


ftgiwnp$ o?nji 

iwt^ ^111511 

18. If the 2nd lord is kx the 6th along with a benefic the 
native will gain wealth through his enemies; if be with a .malefic, 
there will be loss through enemies apart from ihutilation of 
shanks. 

Notes : There will be severe loss of wealth through thefts 
and servants. He will have defects of privities. These are 
further effects of the 2nd lord occupying the 6th house. 

aim: 'TTSRTRt l 

cTFi *rrcf * oifinnfoftiiKti 

19. If the 2nd lord is in the 7th, the native will be addicted 
to others* wives and be a doctor. If a malefic is related to the 
said placement by conjunction or by aspect, the native’s wife 
will (also) be of questionable character. 

Notes : The 2nd lord in the 7th house and related to a 
dire malefic will render the mother of the native being of 
questionable character according to some hoary authors. How- 
ever, the 4th house and its lord deserve a special attention in the 
context of mother’s disposition. 

prc* ^ n^oii 

20. If the 2nd lord is in the 8th, the native will be 
endowed with abundant land and wealth. But he will have 
limited marital felicity and be bereft of happiness from his 
elder brother. 

Emtqrn^ tRiwuft <T£ < 

ne* cftftwscnfsrfa; 113*11 

21. If the 2nd lord is in the 9th, the native will be wealthy, 
diligent, skilful, sick during childhood and will later on be happy 
(i. e. healthy) and will visit shrines, observing religious code etc. 

jTRfT 3im: qfarT: I 



Chapter 24 1V5 

22. If the 2nd lord is in the 10th, the native v/lll be 
libidinous, honourable, learned, will have many wives and much 
wealth but be bereft of filial happiness. 

CritafrPTtft HTtf vtfdiTTH 5Tra% TO 113 W 

23. If the 2nd lord is in the 11th, the native, will have all 
kinds of wealth, be ever diligent, honourable and famous. 

Notes : The native will undergo miseries due to ill-health 
during childhood and with the march of time he will be 
endowed with health throughout, if the 2nd lord is in the 1 ltli 
house. 

ITT mUKeftWH jrfjr n^u 

24. If the 2nd lord is in the 12th, the native will be 
adventurous, be devoid of wealth, and be interested in •ther’s 
wealth while his eldest child will not keep him happy. 

Notes : According to the saying "facets sJpriNrfo trjtw- 

Meaning that if the 2nd lord is in the 12th house wi two 
or more (favourable) planets, the native will be exl cmcly 
wealthy. This is found to be a sound clue in actual cases. 
However, the 2nd lord lonely in the 12th is bad for riches, 
except in the case of Aries ascendant with Venus in the 1 2th in 
high dignity. 

%^T5T: 3TT<Tt f5WT|[Htsfq ^f^TFT IRltb 

25. EFFECTS OF 3RD LORD IN VARIOUS HOUSES 
(upto sloka 36) : If the 3rd lord is in the ascendant, th native 
will have self-made wealth, be disposed to worship, be wlorous 
and be intelligent although devoid of learning. 

Notes : One will have a lean body with the as^ndant 
having the 3rd lord in it. He will have such sexual lirtthat 
cannot be subdued. He will be short-tempered and ill-disposed 
fo others. 



196 Brihat Parasara Hot a Sastra 

fipfft qgani ftft r^pnf^r: i 

wircwft wat* 113 v* 

26. If the 3rd lord is in the 2nd, the native will be 
corpulent, devoid of valour, will not make much efforts, be not 
happy and will have an eye on others’ wives and others’ wealth. 

Notes : Should the 3rd lord be in the 2nd house, one will 
resort to unnatural sexual means of gratification. He will not 
show enthusiasm in his undertakings. 

27 If the 3rd lord is in the 3rd, the native will be 
endowed with happiness through co-bom and will have wealth 
and sons, be cheerful and extremely happy. 

nfasr pT «:ircu 

28. If the 3rd lord is in the 4th, the native will be happy, 
wealthy and intelligent but will acquire a wicked spouse. 

TTitri aw 

29. If the 3rd lord is in the 5th, the native will have sons, 
and be virtuous. If in the process the 3rd lord be conjunct or 
aspected by a malefic, the native will have a formidable wife. 

«T*«**Sra* 1 

30. If the 3rd lord is in the 6th, the native will be inimical 
to his co-boro, be affluent, will not be well-disposed to his 
maternal unde and be dear to bis maternal aunt. 

Notes * The student’s attention is drawn to the statement 
of the text, v/z. mgtTPfV ftzfr TC which been without any 

misconception, rendered to denote the native’s being ‘dear to 

his maternal aunt”. At the same time, Sanketa Nidhi while 
commenting on the 3rd lord’s placement in the 6th house gives 


197 


Chapter 24 

an overt clue to the native being fond of physicallp matiny with 
his maternal aunt. One wonders whether sage Parasara covertly 
points out to one and the same thing. Possibly so, for the Sans- 
krit expression is so flexible. 

5:5ft q^ft^r^ft srmft trotcuHH 

31. If the 3rd lord is in the 7th, the native will be inter- 
ested in serving the king and be not happy during boyhood but 
at the end of his life. 

Notes : It is not a favourable indication to have an indep- 
endent profession or business when the 3rd lord is in the 7th 
house. The 7th denptes one’s public relationship, business 
prospects etc. and an evil lord is not welcome there. As a 
result, the native will be destined to be in the employ of others. 

Further, this position will give a tendency to steal. The 
native will incur a legal award like death. 

*ranrs>nft*ft * h^h 

32. If the 3rd lord is in the 8th, the native will be a thief, 
will derive his livelihood serving others and will die at the gate 
of royal palace. 

rnrft wfsnoVft ftg: i 

33. If the 3rd lord is in the 9th, the native will lack 
paternhl bliss, will make fortunes through wife and will enjoy 
progenic and other pleasures. 

Notes : Although one may have fortunes and progenic 
happiness, one will unendingly feel miserable if the 3rd lord 
occupies the 9th bouse. His father will be a contemptible 
person. 

vTTcT: I 

Tfl: 11 ^ VII 


{£8 Brthat Parasara flora Sastra 

34. If <he 3rd lord is in the 10th, the native will have all 
kinds of happiness and self-made wealth and be interested in 
nurturing wicked females. 

mmt qff n ki m mpnT hst i 

35. If the 3rd lord is in the 1 1th, the native will always 
gain in trading, be intelligent although not literate, be advcntu- 
rous and will serve others. 

Notes : One will have an emaciated body with the 3rd 
lord’s position in the 1 1th house. He will incur misunderstan- 
dings with others and will not be a worthy friend. 

fan ?!FT WH 

36. If the 3rd lord is in the 12th, the native will spend on 
evil deeds, will have a wicked father and will be fortunate 
through a female (or wife). 

Notes : The 3rd lord going to the 12th will bestow every 
happiness in life. Yet the native will feel highly miserable. 
This view is held by Ramadayalu. 

This placement will further spoil the prospects of eo-born. 
If Mars also joins the said 3rd lord, sustenance of co-born will 
be doubtful. 

r<re r^ fr * rf q?T: » 
mg: u^n 

37. EFFECTS OF THE 4TH LORD IN VARIOUS 
HOUSES ( upto sloka 48) : If the 4th lord is in the ascendant, 
the native will be endowed with learning, virtues, ornaments, 
lands, conveyances and maternal happiness. 

Notes ; As a result of the 4th lord coming to occupy the 
ascendant, the subject will acquire incomparable, learning in 
various branches. However, there is an element of risk of 
k«cing deprived of one’s ancestral properties. After leading 
xiarritd life for some time, the native will give up worldly life 
ad may turn into an ascetic. 



Chapter 24 *99 

5TTfft 'Rtnt «4uni['wd: \ 

fg *g q % Tt *TPft $tsmiP4d. U^clt 

38. If the 4th lord is in the 2nd, the native will eryoy 
pleasures, all kinds of wealth, family life and honour and be 
adventurous. He will be cunning in disposition. 

Notes : Tho 2nd house tenanted by the 4th lord will 
bring abundant gains from mother and maternal relatives. The 
mother of the native will be able to receive great help from her 
brothers 'and sisters. The subject will join evil company and 
face some risks. He will -build up self-earned wealth and his lust 
for lucre will never be subdued. 

fe'w* 

39. If the 4th lord is in the 3rd, the native will be valorous. 
He will have servants, be liberal, virtuous and charitable and 
will possess self-earned wealth. He will be free from diseases. 

gg*: tnsft siftcvt livon 

40. If the 4th lord is in the 4th, the native will be a 
minister and will possess all kinds of wealth. He will be skilful, 
virtuous, honourable, learned, happy and be welldisposed to his 
spouse. 

g**nar^ ^ i 

faCTHWeft T** ^ u*s»i 

41. If the 4th lord is in the 5th, the native will be happy 

and be liked by all. He will be devoted to Sri Vishnu, be 
virtuous, honourable and will have self-earned wealth. 

*TT§: \ 

^trtsTvwTTj * 5*n: \\^\\ 

42. If the 4th lord is in the 6th, the native will be devoid 
of maternal happiness, be given to anger, be a thief and a 
conjurer (or magician), be independent in action and be ill- 
disposed. 



200 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 

Notes ; The native will be brought up by another female 
in the place of his mother. He will be careless about his own 
matters. He will have litigations on account of properties. 
His mother will be sickly in constitution and be a source of 
worry to the family members. He will not be welldisposed 
toward his mother. These are additional effects for the 6th 
house placement of the 4th lord in a nativity. 

SfTcft fasmmfaa: I 

fnwri *r«ra? 11*311 

43. If the 4th lord is in the 7th, the native will be endowed 
with a high degree of education, will sacrifice his patrimony and 
be akin to the dumb in an assembly. 

Notes : When the 4th lord occupies the 7th house, the 
person concerned will not enjoy paternal properties. He may 
either lose or sacrifice the same. He will not be a householder 
for a long lime aqd will give up his family burdens sooner or 
later as a husband and as a father. Though he will achieve a 
great degree of education, he will be unable to express himself 
before a group of men. 

5TRT; wfcni**U 

44. If the 4th lord is in the 8th the native will he devoid 
of domestic and other comforts, will not enjoy much parental 
happiness and be equal to a neuter. 

Notes : The 4th lord’s relegation to the 8th house will 
affect the progenic ability of the native and he will not be able 
to carnally satisfy his spouse. His happiness in household life 
will not be appreciable; some problem or the other will accost 
him. His education will face many an obstacle. His childhood 
will be with many difficulties. 

11**11 

45. If the 4th lord is in the 9th, the native will be dear to 
one and all, be devoted to God, be virtuous, honourable and 
endowed with every kind of happiness. 



Chapter 24 201 

TtsnrRft RTt 'r#?t i 

qwM fsRtfoR: irv^u 

46. If the 4th lord is in the 10th, the native will eqjoy royal 
honours, be an alchemist, be extremely pleased, will enjoy 
pleasures and will conquer his five senses. 

Notes : One will be professionally happy and prosperous 
with the 4th lord in the 10th house. He will have abundant 
jelf-made properties. He will, however, lack maternal happiness 
if the 4th lord in the said house is not happily placed. 

?TTWT STTrft gccrOiTTOTfJSrT: \ 

TTCTT TrTMOfvaU 

47. If the 4th lord is in the 1 1th, the native will have fear 
of secret disease, be liberal, virtuous, charitable and helpful to 
others. 

Notes : Some say that the 1 1th house having the 4th lord 
will ensure freedom from diseases while our sage attributes secret 
diseases (like venereal affliction or any other diseases caused by 
physical union). Apparently the sage does not prefer the 4th 
lord (lord of happiness) getting relegated to the 11th (the 8th 
from the 4th), 

graft *T?: M*«; 11 

48. If the 4th lord is in the 12th the native Will be devoid 
of domestic and other comforts, wiJ 1 have vices and be foolish 
and Indolent. 

Notes : Complete absense of happiness, particularly 
paternal, will come to pass. One will be bereft of masculine 
vigour. His mother is of doubtful character. These are 
additional effects for the 4th lord being in the 12th house, 
according to classical works. 

qlttf sraft faffFJ gSRSTTfaR: I 

qqfaRITO TOWRTO: inf£U 



201 


Rrihat Parasara flora Sastra 


49. EFFECTS OF THE 5th LORD IN VARIOUS HOUSES 
(upto sloka 60) : If the 5th lord is in the ascendant, the native 
will be scholarly, be endowed with progenic happiness, be a 
miser, be crooked, and will steal others’ wealth. 

\ Notes : The native having the 5th lord in the ascendant 
will be of unsteady disposition. Though progenic happiness is 
denoted by our text, there are other exponents warning of an 
unpleasant situation in respect of one of the native’s sons. 

Qdlf'Tfl: I 
gtWTT HKoll 

50. If the 5th lord is in the 2nd, the native will have many 
sons and wealth, be a pater familias, be honourable, be attached 
to his spouSe and be famous in the world. 

Notes : Maharshi Parasara praises very highly the place- 
ment of the 5th lord in the 2nd house and attributes worldwilde 
fame for the native. It is actually true in the case of Smt. 
Indira Gandhi, Prime Minister of India, whose map of birth is 
furnished below : born on 19th November 1917 (Monday) at 
2317 hrs 1ST at Allahabad, &1E54 25N28. 




Jup (R) 
15-0 

Ketu 

10-34 


£asi 

Asc 28-05 
Sat 2 1-48 

Moon 
5-3 5 

Mars 
i 6-2 3 

Ven 20-57 
Rahu 
10-34 

Merc 

13-11 

Sun4-04 










Chapter 24 203 

Note the lord of the 5th Mars occupying the 2nd house in 
Leo. The nativity has a number of splendid planetary influences 
apart from this. As indicated by sage Parasara, the 2nd house 
position of the 5th lord gave her a world-wide position and 
honour for a very long number of years. 

One can notice that the native will have ample opport- 
unities of shining brilliantly, whether or not on a world level, 
with the 2nd house placement of the 5th lord in strength and 
dignity. Should there further be sufficient Raja Yogas etc. as 
in the case of the example chart given, the native will be sure to 
hit the headlines of the world press. 

The position of the 5th lord in the 2nd will further cuase 
asthma and catarrh and the native will have infected lungs. He 
will become proud owing to his possessions. 

*nq vrfidH stsrfiro \ 

51. If the 5th lord is in the 3rd, the native will be attacho 
ed to his co-bom, be a talebearer and a miser, and be always 
interested in his own work. 

Notes : The native will further be an imposter. He will 
not be helpful to anybody in any manner. 

mqfcjw *J*f3*^ TT5ftsm?sis«WT *T5: 11 * 31 ! 

52. If the 5th lord is in the 4th, the native will be happy, 
endowed with maternal happiness, wealth and intelligence, and 
fce a king or a minister or a preceptor. 

Notes : A very long life will come to the native’s mother. 
The native will start acquiring prosperity, right from his youth. 
He will also own a posh or beautiful house. These are additional 
effects that will come to pass with the 4th house having the 5th 
lord in it. 

*I*TT** XK: \ 

53. If the 5th lord is in the 5th, the native will hava 
progeny if related to a bencfic; there will be no issues if malcflc 



204 


Brihat Parasara Mora Sastrd 


is related to the said 5th lord placed in 5th. The 5th lord in 5th 
will, however, make one virtuous and dear to friends. 

g*: 

*Knqccfts3i*T srat roftmnftsqwniioui 

c • 

54. If the 5th lord is in the 6th, the native will obtain such 
sons who will be equal to his enemies or will lose them, or will 
acquire an adopted or purchased son. 

Notes : Maharshi Parasara enunciates four different possi- 
bilities if the 5th lord is in the 6th house. 

1. Obtaining sons that will be inimical to the native : The 
' 6th house denotes one’s enemies. The planet occupying the 6th 

will signify the class of enemy. 5th lord indicates sons, 9th lord 
indicates father, 4th lord indicates mother and so on and so 
forth. Such relative will be inimical .to the native corresponding 
to the rulcrship of the occupant of the 6th house. 

2. Loss of children : The 6th is the maraka sthana for 
children as it is the 2nd from the 5th. Hence loss of progeny is 
denoted. 

3. Obtaining an adopted issue : Normally this occurs 
when one is unable to have progeny of his own loins, or falls to 
have living children. Point 2 above answers thp circumstances. 

4. Purchase of a child : This is also like adoption. Hence 
it follows that the situation of the 5th lord in the 6th house 
is not very desirable, of course excepting Saturn for Virgo 
ascendant. 

It is also not advisable for a female to have her 9th lord 
in the 10th house from the point of view of filial happiness. 

qNt t 

IIXXM 

55. If the 5th lord is in the 7th, fhe native will be 
honourable, very religious, endowed with progenic happiness 
and be helpful to others. 

Notes : With the 5th lord going to the 7th house, the 
native will be tall in stature and will speak only truth. He will 
honestly serve his employer, and his dealings will be honest. He 
will be firm in disposition. 



205 


Chapter 24 

* ^sqfaci: ast^U 

56. If the 5th lord is in the 8th, the native will not have 
much progenic happiness, be troubled by cough and pulmonary 
disorders, be given to anger and be devoid of happiness. 

*mq»r *r i 

?n a fasma: j^w iiit'sn 

57. If the 5th lord is in the 9th, the native will be a prince 
or equal to him, will author treatises, be famous and will shine 
in his race- 

Notes : The placement of the 5th lord in the 9th house is 
a good augury for writership, authorship, editorship and the 
like. See the following horoscope of the most venerable 
Jagadguru Adi Sankaracharya. 








206 


Brihat Barasara Hora Sastra 


sitions in an endeavour tore-stand Hinduism on firm grounds 
are of perennial importance and his horoscope should serve a 
perfect example of our above rule. 

I have given another horoscope dealing with authorship on 
page 88 of “Doctrines of Suka Nadi— Retold” which is as 
under : 

Born on 21.5-1944 at 1902 hrs War time, 13N40, 79E20. 



Merc 

Ven 

Moon 

Sun 

Sat 

- 

Rasi 

Rahti 

Mars 

Jup 

Ketu 



A sc 




The native has authored a number of books on a subject 
dear to his heart. Mark the 5th lord Jupiter in exaltation in 
the 9th. 

Apart from the 5th lord being in the 9th for fame via 
authorship, the 7th house having the 5th loni will equally 
contribute to such achievements. See the horoscope of late 
Sri C. G. Rajan on the next page. 

The birth data are : bom 5th July 1894 AD as taken from 
his preface given to ‘Cancer Ascendant Volume* of Saptarshi 
Nadi series of Madras Govt. Publications. Sri C. G. Rajan 
did a g r eat service to the lovers of astrology by bringing out 
dozens of volumes on astrology in Tamil and English. He had 




Chapter 24 


207 


Mars 

Rahu 


Jup 

Ven 

1 

Sun 


Rasi 

Moon 

Merc 




Asc 


Sat 

Ketu 


also edited a couple of volumes in Tamil of Saptarshi Nadis on 
behalf of the Oriental Manuscripts Library, University of 
Madras. He had as well produced a couple of astronomical 
treatises like Siddhanta Raja Siromani (Graha Karanam) contai- 
ning planetary tables from 3200 BC to 3100 AD. Note the 5th 
lord in the 7th in his natus along with Venus. 

TROTHS fj? StTUft I 

58. If the 5th lord is in the 10th, the native will enjoy a 
Rajayoga and various pleasures, and be very fhmous. 

Notes : For enjoying a superior degree of material bene- 
fits like wealth, position, fame etc. the 5th lord is the best 
placed in the 10th house than elsewhere. This one position 
with sterling qualities will equal many Rajayogas. It is a pre- 
requisite of course that in such a placement the 5th lord is 
very close to the meridian, if not exactly on the meridian, 
preferably with exaltation or such other dignities. If he is placed 
in an enemy’s house or such other afflictions tormenting him, he 
will prove rather adverse than a Rajayoga maker. 




208 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


Hi’fnr swft ftrarrn swrevre: t 

sW to? ?T5R«> 5|5^ennff?RT: iixtu 

59. If the 5th lord is in the 11th, the native will be 
learned, dear to people, be an author of treatises, be very 
skilful and be endowed with many sons and wealth. 

Notes : The 5th lord’s station in the 1 1th house will keep 
one free from misfortunes and unhappiness. He will be of 
helping nature. His academic achievements will be abundant. 
He will be happy in respect of his children, but the said 11th 
house should be a friendly sign for the 5th lord ( vide rule 48, 
p, 96 of Doctrines of Suka Nadi— Retold). If the 5th lord is 
inimically placed in the 1 1th house, for example the Sun in 
Aquarius in the 11th in the case of Aries ascendant, the progeny 
will be inimical to the native. However, obtainment of progeny 
will not be obstructed in that case even. 

Mi aiRT: l 

jfaiynfNsftswr t^°n 

60. If the 5th lord is in the 12th, the native will be bereft 
of happiness from his own sons, will' have an adopted or 
purchased son. 

Notes : The placement of the 5th lord in the 12th in 
terminal house will cause various kinds of miseries in the matter 
of children. One may not obtain a child at all, or may incur 
inimical relations with his own child. Adoption will surely 
dome to pass if Saturn or Mercury ruling the 5th is in the 12th. 
In other cases, the disposition of Saturn/Mercury/Jupiter will 
have to be seen while the 5th lord is in the 12th. Further 
grave defects with the 5th lord in the 12th are difficulties in 
digestion and abdominal disorders. 

STTcft \ 

to iiwi 

61. EFFECTS OF THE 6TH LORD IN VARIOUS 
HOUSES (upto sloka 72) t If the 6th lord is in the ascendant, 
the native will be sickly, famous, inimical to his own men, rich, 
honourable, adventurous and virtuous. 



Chapter 24 209 

Notes : The 6th lord in the ascending sign will bring various 
diseases to the native. He will incur adverse effects in the matter 
of acquisition of progeny. 

Venus in Taurus ascendant will particularly give benefic 
results in full measure as stated. He will also not stall obtain- 
ment of children. There will, however, be more daughters than 
sons, while the first child will be a male. 

TTtjft ^rTT ?T?T II^^M 

62. If the 6th lord is in the 2nd, the native will be adven- 
turous, famous among his racemen, will live in alien countries 
(or places), be happy, be a skilful speaker and be always 
interested in his own work. 

Notes : The native will further be skilful in dealing with 
hoary lore. His financial position will be somewhat shaky. He 
will enjoy good health. 

fTjni: 3TRT: 'SpM f^5*nrfairr: \ 

WrTT VlaKiHttlCT ||^|| 

63. If the 6th lord is in the 3rd, the native will be given to 
anger, be bereft of courage, inimical to all of his co-born and 
will have disobedient servants. 

Notes : The 3rd house containing the 6th lord will not 
serve the native with intelligence at all times. To wit, he will 

be partly deprived of benefits due to his intelligence. He will 

also not be steady in disposition. 

m3: gtafofaa: \ 

fimm »I^*U 

64. If the 6th lord is in the 4th, the native will be devoid 
of maternal happiness, be intelligent, be a talebearer, be jealous, 
fickle-minded and very rich. ' 

gmft am am Ercifom i 

33ft mrof mrfma: ii^sui 



210 


Brihat Par asm a Hora Sastra 


65. If the 6th lord is in the 5th, the native will have 
fluctuating finances. He will incur enmity with his sons and 
friends. He will be happy, selfish and kind. 

ftjwwrt a * i 

*t«t trcifoim u^n 

66. If the 6th lord is in the 6th, the native will have enmity 
with the group of his kinsmen but be friendly to others and will 
enjoy mediocre happiness in matters like wealth. 

Notes : The native will enjoy happiness of conveyances 
and be free from diseases. His life span will also be consider- 
ably lengthy. These are additional effects for the 6th lord in 
the 6th itself. 

Tirg^tfriTcT: i 

un^ct: iiv»h 

67. If the 6th lord is in the 7th, the native will be deprived 
of happiness through wedlock. He will be famous, virtuous, 
honourable, adventurous and wealthy. 

Notes : Apart from denying marital happiness, the 6th 
lord’s occupancy of the 7th house will dissatisfy the native 
in the matter of progeny. His own spouse will be his sworn 
enemy. 

68. If the 6th lord is in the 8th, the native will be sickly, 
inimical, will desire others’ wealth, be interested in others’ wives 
and be impure (or degraded). 

Notes : It is not good for one’s purity of character if the 
8th house is occupied by the 6th lord. The native will be ever 
incurring enmity with others and be not happy. He will have 
a green eye on others’ learning and an eye on others’ wealth. 



Chapter 24 2 \ \ 

69. If the 6th lord is in the 9th, the native will trade in 
wood and stones (qiinur also means poison), and will have 
fluctuating professional fortunes. 

Notes : The Maharshi seems to suggest that one wilt deal 
in building construction material by sa>ing that one will sell 
wood and stones with the 6th lord in the 9th. It will further 
cause ups and downs in one’s livelihood. 


70. If the 6th lord is in the 10th, the native will be well- 
known among his men, will not be respectfully disposed to his 
father and will be happy in foreign countries. He will be a 
gifted speaker. 

Notes : One will be greatly valorous and learned in Sastras 
(or ancient lore). There will be litigations on account of 
ancestral properties. Dutifulness and living in foreign place 
will also come to pass. These are in furtherance to the sage’s 
views for the placement of the 6th lord in the 10th house. 

71. If the 6th lord is in the 1 1th, the native will gain 
wealth through his enemies, be virtuous, adventurous and will 
be somewhat bereft of progenic happiness. 

Notes : One will, to some extent, be happy and to yet some 
extent be unhappy if the 6th lord occupies the 11th house. 
This is in regard to progeny. There is also a view that this 
position can wholly deny acquisition of a child. 


cRTT: iha^n 

72. If the 6th lord is in the 12th the native will always 

spend on vices, be hostile to learned people and will torture 
living beings. 


Notes : The native will be of questionable . morality and 
will ever be mtent on deriving sexual pleasures from other 
females as well. 



212 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


3TRT: *TMR3 I 

5^ jnft ^RR^nfRcT u^Hii 

73. EFFECTS OF THE 7TH LORD IN VARIOUS 
HOUSES (upto sloka 81) : If the 7th lord i9 in the ascendant, 
the native will go to others' wives, be wicked, skilful, devoid of 
courage and afflicted by windy diseases. 

Notes : The native will not be firm in his words and 
actions. He will impart courage in others although he himself 
will be bereft of courage. So say learned astrologers in the 
context of the ascendant being occupied by the 7th lord. 

SRH 3T!rft 1 

^ HFR: II'SYU 

74. If the 7th lord is in the 2nd, the native will have 
many wives, will gain wealth through his wife and be procras- 
tinating in nature. 

Notes : This position will further give corrupt character 
making one addicted to many women. He will lose his wife 
early. His prosperity will ascend with his marriage. 

3TT7T STTeft ffl I 

gsft jkhr g^sfq sfafa uv»xu 

75. Jf the 7th lord is in the 3rd, the native will face loss 
of children and sometimes with great difficulty there will exist a 
living son. There is also the possibility of birth of a daughter 
(who will sustain). 

Notes : Three salient features in regard to progeny arc 
denoted by sage Parasara for the 3rd house placement of the 7th 
lord. Firstly, loss of children in general. Secondly, possibility 
of (rarely) acquiring a daughter. Lastly, no possibility of having 
a living son. In fine, probably a female child will live long to 
keep the native happy, while male children will pass away as 
they are born. 



Chapter 24 


213 


76. If the 7th lofd is in the 4th, the wife of the native 
will not be under his control. He will be fond of truth, be 
intelligent and religious. He will suffer from dental diseases. 

Notes : A disobedient wife follows the 4th house position 
of the 7th lord. This is Maharshi’s instruction. However, 
Ramadayalu states in this context thus, c rrfo^ff?*TTf*Trrr 
meaning that the native’s wife will brilliantly shine with chastity 
or devotion to husband. Lord Rama’s sacred horoscope is a 
classic example having Cancer ascendant with Saturn, the 7th 
lord, in the 4th— of course in exaltation. I do not possess 
even the slightest competence to say that the Maharshj's view is 
untenable. 

In this context, however, I quote a horoscope from 
“Saptarshi Nadi” (Volume for Tcurus ascendant). The whole 
Nadi was a product of intercourse between four groups of sages,, 
each group having seven great sages, in the benign presence of 
Parvati, a consort ot Lord Siva. In the seminar on Taurus 
ascc..dant, Parasara was also a participant. The horoscope in 
particular (bearing No. 25 in the original volume) was analysed 
by Parasara himself as one of the seven Rishis in dialogue. See 
the nativity : 


Jup 

Saturn 

Ascdt 

Ketu 


RASI 

Merc 

Sun 

Ven 


Mars 

Rahu 

Moon 


• 




214 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


Dealing with the above horoscope, Parasara describes 
the native's spouse thus : “she will be somewhat short- 
tempered. She will deliver auspicious words. She will be dear 
to her husband. She will live begetting fame from all the four 
directions. She will be fortunate. She will be free from any 
blemish (or Dosha). She will be dark in complexion. She will 
feed the needy. In beauty, she will be akin to Rathi (the 
extremely charming spouse of the extremely charming Cupid, 
the Hindu God of beauty and son of Maha Vishnu), She will 
possess many ornaments and be intelligent. She will be modest 
and will not have any desire for other men (than her spouse, i.e. 
the native in question).” This is how sage Parasara describes 
the wife of the native in question in verses 27-29 ibid. Though 
no direct reason has been attributed for the chastity of the 
spouse, we cannot ignore the disposition of the 7th lord, parti- 
cularly with debilitated Moon in the 7th. The 7th lord is in the 
4th giving the native a spouse who would be extremely devout 
proving an asset to the husband. As such the view of our 
present sloka in regard to the spouse is at the outset defective. 
Thus the wife cannot be out of the control of the native. The 
Chaukambha edition also clearly states that the native’s wife will 
not be chaste, see ^TTfr^^rRrSTjrr and hence the version of our 
sloka is also rightly interpreted. 

tnrvr sraynfNRr: i 

77. If tne 7th lord is in the 5th, native will be honourable, 
endowed with all (i.e. seven principal) virtues, always delighted 
and endowed with all kinds of wealth. 

Notes : I have observed two salient features in the 7th 
lord’s getting into the 5th house. These are : (1) Delay and 
disappointments in married life. The conjugal life seldom proves 
happy. (2) Severe affliction to progenic indications. Either 
there will be unhappiness on account of children or loss of 
children. 

The effects mentioned by the sage, viz. virtues, wealth, 
honour and (general) happiness will also come to pass. The 
happiness about marriage and progeny will visibly be absent. 



Chapter 24 * 215 

This will further give rise to the native’s association with 
great people. He will be endowed with boosted spirits. 

78. If the 7th lord is in the 6th, the native will beget a 
sickly wife, be inimical to her, given to anger and devoid of 
happiness. 

Notes : The 7th lord in the 6th will reduce the general 
happiness of the native apart from severely inflicting his conjugal 
bliss. His own health will be poor while his wife will be weak 
in constitution. She will equally have adverse health conditions 
The native will coaleasce with harlots. 

s it«t *rcgsnfs*?r: i 

ttftt STK PflqqH Hvsfcll 

79. If the 7th lord is in the 7th, the native will be endowed 
with happiness through wife, be courageous, skilful and intelli- 
gent but only afflicted by windy diseases. 

Notes : By usiog the word in the text meaning 

“only”, the sage hints that the only possible defect in the 7th 
lord's placement in the 7tb itself will be troubles from windy 
diseases (like rheumatism, artheritis etc.). 

One undesirable quality will, however, be found in the 
native, contrary to no adverse indication in the text, and that 
is his addiction to other females. This is an exception to Venus 
occupying the 7th house identical with Taurus or Libra. 

trrcg*Ttf*5tcT: 1 

m qfcf q tVwkttsfi |:tftensfq n vgm ucou 

80. If the 7th lord is in the 8th, the native will be deprived 
of marital happiness. His wife will be troubled by diseases, be 
devoid of good disposition and will not obey the native. 

Notes : As the 7th lord goes to the 8th house, the native’s 
spouse will be liable to incur afflictions to her longevity. 
However, marriage may bring some pecuniary gains for the 
native. 



5 16 Brihat Parasara Horn Sastra 

?7T*T u4*l *TFTT**>fa: ^RTW: I 
5nm?rcPrn sncft jr:hc?u 

81. If the 7th lord is in the 9th, the native will have union 
with many women, be weli-disposed to his own wife and will 
have many undertakings (or assignments). 

qj4*n**$ imn smgni \ 
prcr Effort iu^ii 

82. If the 7th lord is in the 10th, the native will beget a 
disobedient wife, will be religious and endowed with wealth, 
sons etc. 

trtn *R*«ra*rnm: i 

^ 5p|: lie: ^ II 

83. If the th lord is in the 1 1th, the native will gain wealth 
through his wife, be endowed with less happiness from sons etc. 
and will have daughters. 

Notes : If the 7th lord is in the II th house, there is a 
possibility of the native losing his children to his grief. He will 
obtain (more) daughters. His own sons will be hostile to him 
and will cause him no happiness. Living son also seems to be 
very remote a probability. 

TTT^T vfri: ^7 \ 

nmfsfa *T*Tsfatt *TOI Me: VI I 

84. If the 7th lord is in {the 12th, the native will incur 
penury, be a miser and his livelihood will be related to clothes. 
His wife will be a spendthrift. 

Nrat ipjrt^cT: u^km 

85. EFFECTS OF THE 8TH LORD IN VARIOUS 
HOUSES (upio sloka 96) : If the 8th lord is in the ascendant, 
the native will be devoid of physical felicity and will suffer from 
wounds. He will be hostile to gods and brahmins (or religious 
people). 



217 


Chapter 24 

«R 5T^T H vHRft UcVl 

86. If the 8th lord is in the 2nd, the native will be devoid 
of bodily vigour, will enjoy a little wealth and will not regain 
lost wealth. 

’Sngwtej *T I 

*11^^ 9tn<<rnri: llc'all 

87. If the 8th lord is in the 3rd, the native will be devoid 
of fraternal happiness, be indolent and devoid of servants and 
strength. 

HcctU 

88. If the 8th lord is in the 4th, the child will be deprived 
of its mother. He will be devoid of a house, lands and 
happiness and will doubtlessly betray his friends. 

Notes : Maharshi Parasara uses the word “fspjj” meaning 
child. Hence it is apparent that the native will lose his mother 
in the very childhood if the 8th lord is in the 4th house. 

¥[?nn*F<R ST^TTERt \ 

^Tsr«> Safari: He; tn 

89. If the 8th lord is in the 5th, the native will be dull- 
witted, will have limited number of of children, be ldnglived 
And wealthy. 

Notes : One’s financial acquisitions, though abundant, 
will hot be steady and be subjected to fluctuations. Though his 
intentions and aetions will be bona fide, they will go unrecogni- 
zed. He will not be steady in disposition and will off and on 
change his line of thinking. He will not enjoy filial bliss. 
These are additional hints for the 8th lord’s stationing in the 5th 
house at birth. 

^ttvir stor ntoii 



218 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


90. If the 8th lord is in the 6th, the native will win over 
his enemies, be afflicted by diseases and during childhood will 
incur danger through snakes and water. 

„ Notes : The position of the 8th lord in the 6th house is a 
sureshot of success over enemies and in litigations. The native 
will be reduced to danger through snakes, scorpions etc. during 
childhood. Afterwards he will be free from such calamities. 
However, this portion is not very favourable for one’s health. 
This also indicates a long span of life. 

qrcmspq wntoi tort i 
siiqiT * 

91. If the 8th lord is in the 7th, the native will have two 
wives. If the 8th lord is conjunct a malefic in the 7th there 
will surely be downfull in his business (qr livelihood). 

Notes : The 7th house being occupied by the 8th lord is a 
forerunner of difficulties in married life. There will be want, of 
understanding between the native and his spouse. The constitut- 
ion of the spouse will be quite weak and she will always be 
subjected to uncertainties or dangers. 

Outwardly the native may pose to be God-fearing, But he 
will not be sincerely devoted to the Almighty. He will be an 
expert in stealing others’ things. 

tJcJTHW* TfldT qtqftjqT I 

92. If the 8th lord is in the 8 th the native will be long- 
lived. If the said planet be weak being in the 8th, the longevity 
will be medium, while the native will be a thief, be blameworthy 
and will blame others well. 

Notes : In remaining in the 8th itself, the 8th lord should 
be quite strong in Shadbala, so the native will be long-lived. If 
he is bereft of strength, the native will not enjoy full span of 
life. 

The 8th house in occupation by its own lord will give a 
spouse with questionable character. However she will be a 
source of financial help to the native by her own earnings or 



Chapter 24 


219 


properties. The native will inherit ancestral properties as well. 
The evil effects cited above will not come to pass for an Aquarius 
native having Mercury in exaltation in the 8th in Virgo. He 
should be within the first half of Virgo to stall the said evils. 
In the later portion of Virgo his potence considerably decreases. 

3?ch*?t ^ \ 

93. If the 8th lord is in the 9th, the native will betray his 
relig on, be a heterodox, will beget a wicked wife and will steal 
others’ wealth. 

Notes : The native will suffer frequent misfortunes and 
downfalls. His prosperity will not be unobstructed and he will 
find it difficult to cope up with professional adversities. His 
father will suffer a cut in longevity. His understanding with his 
father will be deficient. Progenic happiness will not come to 
him in full measure. His wife will be of “questionable birth”. 
She will go to other men and beget progeny. The native himself 
will be addicted to others’ housewives. These are additional 
effects of the 8th lord occupying the 9th house in a nativity. In 
the case of a Gemini native, Saturn occupying the 9th house (his 
Moolatrikona) will not produce these malefic effects. But his 
benefic tendencies will be quite meagre. 

94. If the 8th lord is in the I Oth the native will be devoid 
ol paternal bliss, be a tale-bearer and be bereft of livelihood. 
If there is an aspect in the process from a benefic, then these 
evils will not mature. 

Notes : There is a school of thought to say that the 8th 
lord occupying the 9th house will cause the deaths of parents 
right in ihe native’s boyhood. Apparently one will not enjoy 
parental happiness for a long duration. 

This placement of the 8th lord will produce all kinds of 
miseries in livelihood, fortunes, fame, properties and the like. 

According to Maharshi Parasara, if the 8th lord in the 10th 
house is (well) related to a benefic, no evils will come to pass. 



220 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


?ttt^ smfsnr i 

ZT&i f^Tcf 5TOTfa^ 1^5(11 

95. If the 8th lord along with a malefic is in the 11th, the 
native will be devoid of wealth and will be miserable in boyhood 
but happy later on. Should the 8th lord be in conjunction with 
a benefic and be in the 11th, the native will be long-lived. 

Notes : The 8th lord in the 1 1th house, unless related to a 
malefic, particularly by conjunction, will not deprive the native 
of financial benefits. If he is alone in the 11th, he will not 
prove that bad in this respect. Moreover, for Taurus ascendant, 
Jupiter in the llth house is not baneful. And for Scorpio 
ascendant, Mercury in the 1 lth will prove a highly favourable 
bargain in the matter of wealth, fame, knowledge etc. 

SWTTTOT sTjiTfter 1 

96. If the 8th lord is in the 12th, the native will spend on 
evil deeds and will incur a short life. More so, if .there be addi- 
tionally a malefic in the said house. 

5TTcft | 

Safari: Retail 

97. EFFECTS OF THE 9TH LORD IN VARIOUS 
HOUSES (up to sloka 108) : If the 9th lord is in .the. ascendant, 
the native will be fortunate (or prosperous), will be honoured by 
the king, be virtuous, Charming, ; learned and honoured by the 
public. 

Notes : If the 9th lord is in the rising sign.ithe native will 
hold a very high position which will bring him wealth and fame. 
He will be free from enemies. A female .having the said 
position will prove a worthy housewife and be rid Of afflictions 
from other planetary sources. [(These effects .will not be enjoyed 
by a Scorpio native.) 

'TfrSrft STd^FrTVl: I 

»im^ u$.mi 


Chapter 24 


221 


98. If the 9th lord js in the 2nd, the native will be a 
scholar, be dear to all, wealthy, sensuous and endowed with 
happiness from wife, sons etc. 

snrft \ 

c a o 

99. If the 9th lord is in the 3rd, the native will be endowed 
with fraternal blies, be wealthy, virtuous and charming. 

TftfffT: l|? o oil 

100. If the 9th lord is in the 4lh, the native will enjoy 
houses, conveyances and happiness, will have all kinds of wealth 
and be devoted to his mother. 

g^facTTeft uftt 0*T?e*TT HT: H?c?(| 

101. If the 9th lord is in the 5th the native will be endo- 
wed with sons and prosperity, devoted to elders, bold, charitable 
and learned. 

*TT3pTTf3*J^§fa: srefa: qtff'T: HIT It? o^(| 

102. If the 9th lord is in the 6th, the native will enjoy 
meagre prosperity, be devoid of happiness from maternal 
relatives and be alw-ays troubled by enemies. 

' o 

qftfanilMTfa fSMtiTlH; ll?o^H 

103. O Brahmin, If the 9th lord is in the 7th, the native 
will beget happiness after marriage, be virtuous, and famous. 

Notes : One will further be able to achieve success in all 
his undertakings. His prosperity will pick up after marriage. 
The native will be not well disposed to his father. These are 
additional effects due to the 7th house placement of the 9th 
lord. 



222 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


TTR*TT*1fI qR> W%rT l 

to ^ > 

cft*T ^TrTfir 5TTq^ II 9 o ifll 

c o * * 

104. If the 9th lord is in the 8th, the native will not be 
prosperous and will not enjoy happiness from his elder brother. 

Notes : Having got the 9th lord relegated to the 8th 
house, one will be devoid of fortunes. He will face failures in all 
his undertakings. He will not achieve professional and financial 
stability. His father will primarily incur a cut in longevity. 
The native will be a source of miseries to his elder brothers/ 
sisters. 

A blessing in disguise with this position is a probable 
inheritence of patrimony by the native. 

ws 351110x11 

105. If the 9th lord is in the 9th, the native will be endo- 
wed with abundant fortunes, virtues and beauty and will enjoy 
much happiness from co-born. 

Notes : Should the 9th lord be in the 9th itself, one will 
obtain fraternal bliss. His co-bron will amass fortune. The 
native himself will own properties in a large scale. He will 
achieve easy success in each and every undertaking. His father 
will play a significant role in his (i.e. the native’s) progress. 
The native’s mother will be free from diseases. The native will 
be nurtured by his maternal grand parents. 

3fTrft 1 

106. If the 9th lord is in the 10th, the native will be a king 
or equal to him or be a minister or an army chief, be virtuous 
and dear to all. 

Notes : The sage suggests that with the 9th lord going to 
the 10th the native will be either a king or a minister or an army 
chief. Apparently, if the 9th lord is prepotent, one will enjoy 
royal status. The strength proportionately falling down will 
make the native enjoy comparatively lesser positions. 



223 


Chapter 24 

wnft * t m wim * «R*mft faft i 

Weft tJTpjRTfiT ^ gitT*Wffa II?o\3J| 

107. If the 9th lord is in the 1 1th, the native will enjoy 
financial gains day by day, be devoted to elders, virtuous and 
meritorious in acts. 

Notes : The native who has the 9th lord in the 11th house 
will see increasing phases of fortunes and prosperity. The 9th 
lord indicates one's prosperity and the 1 1th house gains. Hence 
the said position is extremely favourable for material uplift- 
ment. This will, however, not apply to Gemini ascendant having 
Saturn, the 9th lord, in the 11th house. On the contrary it 
will prove highly detrimental for the prosperity of the native. 

Additional effects due to the 9th lord’s placement in the 
11th house (excepting of course Gemini ascending), high 
honours, spiritual success, metaphysical achievements and gains 
through father. 

wfttft aurHwtwft mnrfrrfiwft wim i 

WTOTZT ttftft fact? 11? o ell 

108. If the 9th lord is in the 12th, the native will incur 
loss of fortunes, will always spend on auspicious acts and will 
become poor on account of entertaining guests. 

Notes : The 9th lord in the 12th is said to cause lo&sof 
wealth on account of entertaining guests. In the modern 
.context lavish parties will take this role. The native will land in 
financial difficulties on account of throwing parties and the 
like. 

This position is not also auspicious for the happiness of 
elder brothers and sisters. 

'juot tj^Tlrft H*ft vftff l 
STcft fftft JTSft 'TTOT? U?o£U 

109. EFFECTS OF THE 10TH LORD IN VARIOUS 
HOUSES (upto sloka 120) : If the 10th lord is in the ascendant, 
the native will be scholarly, famous, be a poet, will incur 
diseases in boyhood and be happy later on. His wealth will 
increase day by day. 



224 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sasfra . 


Notes : The 10th lord occupying the ascendant is very 
.favourable for riches giving a royal status to the native. The 
following figure belongs to Sarabhoji Maharaja of Tanjore, 





Rahu 

Moon 

Sat 


RASI 

Jup 

Ven 



Ketu 

Mars 


Ascdt 

Sun 

Merc 


In the above chart, the lord of the lOih is Mercury who is 
in the ascendant in own sign. The 2nd lord Venus is in the 
company of exalted Jupiter. The native amassed a vast 
kingdom and wealth. He established the Tanjore Saraswati 
Mahal Library which is a treasure-house of literature of ancient 

lore. 

The ascendant having the 10th lord in it will contribute to 
the native’s becoming well educated and learned. It will also 
make one widely famous. 

If there are no Balarishta combinations and if the 6th lord 
is sufficiently favourable, then the position of the 10th lord in 
the ascendant will not cause diseases in boyhood. 

Trntji TOT* \ 

T HU R ft aRTFUra f'HTfeg’SSTSRT: 11?? oil 








Chapter 24 225 

110 Tfthe 10th lord is in the 2nd, the native will be 
wealthy, virtuous, honoured by the king, charitable and will 
enjoy happiness from father and others. 

Notes : The placement of the 10th lord in the 2nd will 
give immeasurable financial success through one’s own profession 
or calling, apart from a large scale patrimony. (This will be 
more effective for Gemini ascendant having the 10th lord 
Jupiter in the 2nd in exaltation). His fame will spread in all 
comers, according to other classical ^exponents. 

The horoscope of Mr. Morarji Desai, an erstwhile Prime 
Minister of India, as given below, is a perfect example to depict 
professional fame etc. 

Born on 29.2.1896 atl258 hrs (LMT) in Bulsar(Gujrat). 





Asc 

Sun 

Rahu 

RASI 

Jup 

Mars 

Merc 

Venus 

Moon 

Ketu 



Saturn 



The 10th lord is in the 2nd house speaking for the wide 
political fame he earned through a number of years. He also 
occupied the coveted position of Prime Minister. He has been 
a successful person both financially and professionally. The 
exaltation of Saturn in a trine, and of Jupiter in the 2nd have 
been key factors in the native's success. The 11th house 
receives its own lord’s aspect from exaltation sign giving gains in 
a better manner. 








226 


Brihat Parasara flora Sastra 

Also refer to the birth chart of Mrs 'indira Gandhi, 
where Mars ruling the 10th house is in the 2nd house. 
Except for a brief period, she continues to ' be the Prime 
Minister from 1966 onwards. Her fame has spread in all 
corners and she is considered to be one of the most skilful 
administrators. 

snffy i 

N « c o 

fsreuft g«nFq;;r: 

111. If the 10th lord is in the 3rd, the native will enjoy 
happiness from brothers and servants, be valorous, virtuous, 
eloquent and truthful. 

. 'tfHTT TcTM 

yrsTR n^rrftr 1 1 ? \ ^ 1 1 

112. If the 10th lord is in the 4th, the native will be happy, 
be always interested in his mother’s welfare, will lord over 
conveyances, lands and houses, be virtuous and wealthy. 

WIT SROTT gjRRfq|l??3U 

113. If the 1 0th lord is in the 5th, the native will be 
endowed with alt kinds of learning, be always delighted and be 
wealthy and endowed with sons. 

Notes : The lord of the 10th house occupying the 5th 
house will prove a great asset for the native bestowing abundant 
wealth which will never leave him. He will have a number of 
children. There will seldom be filial grief for him. He will 
always move among wealthy people. In the matter of learning 
and education, sky is the limit in his case. He will be very 
truthfully disposed and command all material comforts of life. 
Dr. Rabindranath Tagore's natus is given below which will 
describe his radiant intelligence, brilliant learning and unpara- 
lleled poetic abilities. Birth data : born May 7, 1861 at 3.15 AM 
1ST at 22N35 88E30. 

Note the 10th lord Jup'ter in exaltation in the 5th obtaining 
a potential status over other planets in the horoscope. Jupiter’s 


Chapter 24 


227 


Moon 

Ascdt 

Sun 

Merc 

Venus 


Mars 

Ketu 


RASI 

Jup 


Sat 

Rahu 





powerful aspect on his depositor, the Moon, lent that trem- 
endous mental impetus to the native that he was a pre- 
eminent poet with a matchless learning. Mercury ruling the 
4th house is unaffected by the Sun, being 16° apart. 

sifTtsfq snrfa: qfcftflff: n ^ ; VII 

114. If the 10th lord is in the 6tb, the native will be 
bereft of paternal bliss. Although he may be skilful he will be 
bereft of wealth and be troubled by enemies. 

Notes : The 10th lord going to the 6th house is a dire 
blemish for professional and monetary stability. One will 
undergo frequent changes in his calling and will - suffer losses 
therein. His financial growth will be severely paralyzed. He 
will have a number of enemies contributing to his decline. He 
will incur lasting diseases. An advantage, however, will come 
to him in the form of extreme intelligence. 

yJTTR WFift 

115. If the 10th lord is in the 7th, the native will be 




228 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 

endowed with happiness through wife, be intelligent, virtuous, 
eloquent, truthful and religious. 

wtrt: qtfrr5mitr>T: nnv* 

116. If the 10th lord is in the 8th, the native will be 
devoid of (good) acts, longlived and intent on blafting others. 

Notes : The 10th lord’s placement in the 8th house 
denotes potence of longevity. The 10th lord is the indicator of 
one’s Karmic credit and his strength or his position in the 8th 
house will contribute to great longevity. That the 10th lord 
should be considered akin to Saturn in the matter of life span is 
a fact tanght to us by Maharshi Parasra, vide sloka 3 in ch. 19. 
The rule as per the present verse will, however, not apply to 
Gemini ascendant horoscope having Jupiter in the 8th (in fall) 
.which will in fact adversely affect longevity. And a Leo native 
will be a significant beneficiary with Venus in the 8th in 
exaltation and will enjoy a considerably long span ol life. 

FTTnm *n?ft XRIT I 

117. If the 10th lord is in the 9th, one born of royal scion 
will become a king whereas an ordinary native will be equal to a 
king. This placement will confer wealth and progenic happiness 
etc. 


qnFpft TRlHiraW | 

'A 4 

*TF: 11* $511 

118. If the 10th lord is in the 10th, the native will be 
skilful in all jobs, be valorous, truthful and devoted to elders. 

TTiW WmTOVi aiTcft I 

<jV|qlKWlfM HftTTOTT ?TTT || ^ 5.U 

119. If the 10th lord is in the 11th, the native will be 
endowed with wealth, happiness and sons. He will be virtuous, 
truthful and always delighted. 



Chapter 24 ~ ^ 

if?? ®*W: I 

f5T??T ^TWTfa fwfeRCIJt3*U 

120. If the 10th lord is in the 12th, the native will spend 
through royal abodes (i e. kings), will have fear from enemies 
and will be worried in spite of being skilful. 

Notes : Expenditure through royal abodes possibly indi- 
cates that the native will lose on taxes, fines etc. to the 
government as the 12th house is involved. Otherwise, this can 
mean luxurious political expenses. This placement will cause 
troubles in financial matters through the Government. 

mrot arrcr; srfNtf i 

Jpftrafaft HTT 5Tm-**rfo?r: at tin 

121. EFFECTS OF THE 11TH LORD IN VARIOUS 
HOUSES (opto sloka 132) : If the 1 1th lord is in the ascendant, 
the native will be genuine in disposition, be rich, happy, even- 
sighted, be a poet, be eloquent in speech and be always endowed 
with gains. 

Notes : When the 11th lord is in the ascendant, the native 
will always befriend the virtuous and reject evil associations. He 
will be extremely prosperous after marriage. 

* tTTRTT *TTcf: 1 

122. If the 11th lord is in the 2nd, the native will be endo- 
wed wkh all kinds of wealth and all kinds of accomplishments, 
be charitable, religious and always happy. 

HTH*! 3TRT: \ 

spfl tsnggwrtcT: 

123- If the 11th lord is in the 3rd, the native will be 
skilful in all jobs, wealthy, endowed with fraternal bliss and may 
sometimes incur gout pains. 

frmfi qismprcsT i 

3TT?ft n^ftT^rrf^: lit 

124. If the 11th lord is in the 4th, the native will gain 



230 


Brihal Parasara Hora Sastra 


from maternal relatives, will undertake visits to shrines and will 
possess happiness of house and lands. 

125. If the 1 ltn lord is in the 5th, the native’s children 
will be happy, educated and virtuous. He will be himself 
religious and happy. 

WPTOT fHrAT^i 5TTtft 1 

Jwr«t ^ qfttffar: nt^u 

126. If the 11th lord is in the 6th. the native will be 
afflicted by diseases, be cruel, living in foreign places and 
troubled by enemies. 

Notes : The placement of the 11th lord in the 6th house 
will augment the chances of ‘acquisition’ of diseases. The 
native will incur defects of hearing organ. (In Aquarius, the 
11th lord will particularly afflict a Virgo native . with dire 
deafness.) The native will be so selfish that for his own happi- 
ness he will leave his family members and live away from his 
home or hometown. Servitude will befit him rather than an 
independent profession. He will often undergo financial 
reversals. 

in faq ig n : 

127. If the 11th lord is in the 7th, the native will always 
gain through bis wife’s relatives, be liberal, virtuous, sensuous 
and will remain at the command of his spouse. 

Notes : Should the 7th house be occupied by the 11th 
lord, the native will always look upto and receive help from his 
wife’s relatives. He will be quite affluent as well. He will lack 
In wisdom. Judgement will lack in him in the matter of 
expenses and he cannot make out where to spend and where not 

A strong urge to seek union with others’ females will 
always be prevalent in him but none will bother for him. Even 
|iis own spouse wiil boss over him. 


231 


Chapter 24 

vfliWr i 

xmw* SHUT *TT»f fcrant^H 

'o ' 

128. If the Ilth lord is' in the 8th, the native will incur 
reversals in his undertakings and will live long while his wife 
will predecease him. 

Notes : The 1 1th lord in the 8th house increases the 
native’s longevity. The geniture given earlier of Sri Morarji 
Desai having Mars in the 8th being the 11th lord bears an ample 
testimony to this effect. However, this rule should not be 
applied to Leo ascendant having Mercury, the 1 1th lord, in the 
8th house in debilitation. 

mqqret * trcrfuq: n^tii 

129. If the 11th lord is in the 9th the native will be 
fortunate, skilful, truthful, honoured by the king and be affluent. 

gunP^: i 

fasrattrHt atanr 

130. If the 11th lord is ih the 10th, the native will be 
honoured by the king, be virtuous, attached to his religion, 
intelligent, truthful and will’subdue his senses. 

Note's : with the 11th lord occupying the 10th house, one 
will be primarily intent on public welfare and redemption. He 
will delve deep into the core of his religion and bring out myriad 
truths to educate the public. He will create an epoch of his 
own which will go into the pages of history. The sacred horos- 
cope of Sri Bhakti Vedanta Swamiji is a fitting example as given 
below. He was born on September 1st, 169G AD, at 1530 hrs 
at Calcutta. 

In this chart, the i 1th lord Venus is in the 10th in debili- 
tation and in the company of the 10th lord Mercury in 
exaltation. The Neechabhanga occurring to Venus enhanced his 
merits and took him to matchless heights. Swamiji had many 
other brilliant features in his horoscope, viz. Saturn in peak in 
the Ilth house, the 3 important planets— the Sun, Ketu and 
Jupiter — all effectively joining in the 9th house (and being in one 
and same Navamsa) and so on and so forth. He founded Hare 



232 


Brihat Parasara Nora Sastra 




Moon 

Mars 


Rahu 

| — 

‘ 



Sun 

Jup 

Ketu 

Lagna 


Sat 

Merc 

Venus 


^ name or Lora Krishna 

to the West. He brought out in print his commentaries on Vedas 
G.ta etc. in uncountable volumes. Above ail, he is a magic 
word on the bps of millions. 15 

It is my experience that a planet with cancelled debilitation 
would give such splendid results keeping other planets behind 
and make the world conscious of such a native. It is of course 
a prerequisite that the ascendant lord should primarily be strong 
enough. In the case of Swamiji, the soul stands well-fortified 
and robed with identity with the praise-worthy Lord Mark the 
prepotent 9th house containing ascendant lord along with the 
Sun and Kelu. 

The reader can always note that if the 1 1 th lord is well 
disposed in the 10th house, the native concerned will dedicate 
his life for others and be devoid of desires to meeting personal 
ends. That is the moral we learn from the_Swamiji’s radix, 

fito: *rar<r 4^3 < 

it U- I3 *j the Ilth lord * s in thc Hth, the native will gain in 
all his undertakings while his learning and happiness will be on 
the increase day by day. 




233 


Chapter 24 


*T?m«5r mui: 

^5S}««WTW: <l?^n 

132. If the 11th lord is in the 12th, the native will always 
expend on good deeds, he sensuous, will have many wives and 
will befriend barbarians (or foreigners in general). 

WTeft s*T«mlert \ 

133. EFFECTS OF THE 12TH LORD IN VARIOUS 
HOUSES (upto sloka 144) : If the I2th lord is in the ascendant, 
the native will be a spendthrift, be weak in constitution, will 
suffer from phlegmatic disorders, and be devoid of wealth and 
learning. 


Notes : Phlegmatic disorders relate to breathing troubles, 
lung disorders, tuberculosis etc. With the 12th lord going to 
the rising sign, the native will always suffer from one disease or 
the other. He will ever be in the grip of fear of death. He 
will acquire many vices. His undertakings will not yield 
success. 


aifaur: fsnreT?> * g«ra^mfar?r: u^yh 

134. If the 12th lord is in the 2nd, the Dative will always 
spend on auspicious deeds, be religious, will speak sweetly and 
be endowed with virtues and happiness. 


, ,. l35 ‘ Ifthc 12th lord is in the 3rd, the ^native will be 

devoid <*f fraternal bliss, will hate others and will promote self- 
nounshment (i.e. be quite selfish). 


***** *r§: 

devn ; ! 36 ; If the J 2th ilord is in the 4th the native will be 

devoid of maternal happiness and will day by day accrue losses 

in respect of lands, conveyances and houses. 



234 


Brihat Parasara Mora Sastrd 


olj^?T Hrrm^ HrTfagTfqqfam: I 

o -a 

* sturcercn rflqfeq<T*t tcii^oii 

137. If the 12th lord is in the 5th, the native will be bereft 

of sons and learning. He will spend as well as visit shrines in 
order to beget a son. ' 

arm: TOPHkgRlI 

^ "rcsrranmt ?tt: 

138. If the 12th lord is in the 6th, the native will incur 
enmity with his own men, be given to anger, be sinful, miserable 
and will go to qthers’ wives. 

aqtrt 5R$5f: *RT I 

?r*q wrftnsr q* TOjtaTf'mftRi: iiikn 

139. If the 12th lord is in the 7th, the native will incur 
expenditure on account of his wife, wilt not enjoy conjugal bliss 
and will be bereft of learning and strength. 

sqSrtf armt srTVHf^: rmi \ 

fwnT N H?VoH 

140. If the 12th lord is in the 8th, the native will always 
gain, will speak affably, will enjoy a medium span of life and be 
endowed with all good qualities. 

Notes : By ‘medium life’ it is meant to denote a span of 
life of 60 years. So to say the 12th lord in the 8th will not be in 
a position to contribute to higher bracket of longevity. 

141. If the 12th lord is in the 9th, the native will disho- 
nour his elders, be inimical even to his friends and be always 
intent on achieving his own ends. 

cqNr TT'i’qqmrq sqqt \ 

.femtsfa Htpr rT?q f| 3TRT^ ll^ll 

142. If the 1 2th lord is in the 10th, the native will incur 
expenditure through royal persons and will enjoy only moderate 
paternal bliss. 


235 


Chapter 24 

wjitfr $rrfa: srarnrih 

q*®T Tfwf E*q qr5Tf^o*TO?l qr:tl?v^h 

143. If the 12th lord is in tha 1 1th, the native will incur 
losses, be brought up by others and will sometimes gain through 
others. 

Notes : One will face obstacles in begetting a child if the 
12th lord occupies the 11th house. He will at last adopt 
a child. 

nTtm ^mrrfsppf » 

q SRtrsnsi mu 

144. If the 12th lord is in the 12th, the native will only 
face heavy expenditure, will not have physical felicity, be 
iritable and spiteful. 

^ qjfaa fan ! *srTq>*pn 

tircnufftn|ii tviiii 

fgTPTTftlPI qriFI fqfqcqtqqqT q«W» 

^jqq^qVsqtahr: snmrihiwit' 

fqficrTTOftg T,?Tidfid: snfarq^CTqq ( 

3qri qTqffqrTRT ^ ^i^vimt q*T qqru?v<;u 

145-148. MISCELLANEOUS : O Brahmin, those are the 
effects of house lords which are to be deduced considering their 
strengths and weaknesses. In the case of a planet owning two 
bhavas, the results are to be deducted based on its two lordships 
(for the same placement). If contrary results are thus indicated, 
the results will be nullified, while results of varied nature will 
come to pass. The planet will yield full, half or a quarter of 
the effects according to its strength being full, medium and 
negligible respectively. Thus I have told you about the effects 
due to bhava lords in various bhavas. 

Notes : We get important and key clue to analyse the 
effects of a bhava lord placed in a certain bhava. Except the 
Sun and the Moon, the other 5 planets own two bhavas each. In 



236 


Brihat Parasara flora Sastra 


the case of the Sun and the Moon, the results cited will come to 
pass. (Here also one should give due consideration to various 
other relative factors. Simply applying the effects without 
checking othet sources will lead to pitfalls.) 

When a planet owns two signs, its placement in a certain 
bhava is affected by its two lordships. For example, take the 
case of Saturn in the 5th house for a Pisces nptive. His position 
in the 5th as the 11th lord will give children and happiness 
through them. And as the 12th lord, he will deny progeny so 
that the native resorts to visiting shrines etc. in a bid to 
obtain a progeny. In such a contrary situation the different 
results mentioned for Saturn’s position in the 5th should not be 
straightaway declared but alternative sources like Jupiter (the 
significator of progery) and the Moon (the owner of the 5th 
house) should be looked upto. 

Next we are clearly instructed in regard to results of 
mutually different spheres. For example again take the same 
care of Pisces ascendant having Saturn in the 5th house. Other 
results mentioned for the 1 1th lord being in the 5th house are : 
native being religious and happy. As the 12th lord in the 5th, 
the result mentioned is that the native will be devoid of educa- 
tion. After sorting out the controversy about progeny, it should 
be declared that Saturn in the 5th will deprive the native born 
in Pisces ascendant of learning (as due to 12th lordship) and 
will make the native religious and happy (as the 11th lofd). 


WTsa^Tsnt^Twnit.* ii^vui 

Chapter 25 

Effects Of Non -Luminous Planets 

ate# tun \ 

srsrarronifTOf * u;ti 

1. Thus I have explained the effects of the seven planets 
viz. the Sun etc. Now I tell you about the effects of non- 
luminous planets. 



237 


Chapter 25 • 

fimvftsrtCT: ffiqft: t?R: 1 

U*HTa ^ ffT: TTCT 1RM 

rv rs ' 

2. EFFECTS OF DHIFMA. IN VARIOUS BHAVAS 
(upto sloka 13) : If Dhuma is in the ascendant, the native wjil 
be valiant, endowed with beautiful eyes, stupefied in disposition, 
unkind, wicked and highly short-tempered. 

Notes : Before declaring results due to placements of non- 
luminous planets (i.e. Dhuma etc ), the student will do well 
to refer to the sage's instruction in the concluding verses of the 
present chapter. 

I have given in my notes for slokas 66-69 in ch.3 details 
of ownership, exaltation and debilitation signs .for the 10 Upag- 
rahas and Muhurta planets as culled out from Kecranuru 
Nataraja’s Jatakalankaram. These will benefit the reader to 
consider lordships (or secondary lordships) of these also for each 
sign. For example, Gulika is ‘lord’ of Aquarius. Hence in 
the case of a Cancer native, he is the ‘§th lord* apart from 
Saturn’s candidacy for 8th lordship. Of course primary impor- 
tance be given to Saturn and he should not be underrated in 
that case. * 

The results due to Dhuma, Gulika etc. will mature in 
the Dasa periods of their depositors. For example, if Gulika 
is placed in Virgo, the effects due to Gulika will come to pa^s in 
the major and sub periods of Mercury. 

In giving effects Gulika is compared to Saturn, Kala to 
Rahu, Ardha Prahara to Mercury and Yamaghantaka to Jnpiter. 
The first two aje malefic in nature while the lajter two are 
benefics. Of all, Gulika is the most powerful in adverse 
results while Yamaghantaka (son of Jupiter) is the mighty 
benefic. 

aft frvrft 

3. If Dhuma is in the 2nd, the native will be sickly, 
wealthy, devoid of a limb, will incur humiliation at royal level, 
be dullwitted and be a eunuch. 



238 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


*tRwh 5^arf%cT: fsTtfa^: i 

3THTSq> *%t[||Yir 

4. If Dhuma is in the 3rd, the native will be intelligent, 
very bold, delighted, eloquent, and be endowed with men aod 
wealth, 


fat* I 

^5^ *T*5TT^ IIK.II 

5. If Dhuma is in the 4th, the native will be grieved on 
account of being given up by his female but will be learned in 
all sastras, 

ERffat art \ 

6. If Dhuma is in the 5th, the native will have limited 
progeny, be deviod of wealth, be great, will eat anything and be 
bereft of friends and Mantras. 

ar^ ^ fr^TTW^ \ 
t^IrT: flYT Ttnfa^filcT; tbdtl 

7. If Dhuma is in the 6th, the native will be strong, will 
conquer his enemies, be very brilliant, famous and free from 
diseases. 

fatR: Hrfci qrirft 'FttTT'l I 

^TrT> fafNl: *RTT SRcHmil 

rs % 

8. If Dhuma is in the 7th, the native will be penniless, be 
ever sensuous, skilful in goining to others’ females and be always 
devoid of brilliance. 

iftrUW: I 

srfsnft f^5T: rorof aft *r?q»r^ nfa n$n 

9. If Dhuma is in the 8th, the native will be bereft of 
courage but be enthusiastic, be truthful, disagreeable, hard- 
hearted and selfish. 



Chapter 25 


239 


M £R*t Tjpft ?qrf?=RT: | 

fcq% q* w^rfj 3?a3ca*T: n$oii 

10. IfDhumais in the 9th, the native will be endowed 
with sons and fortunes, be rich, honourablo, kind, religious and 
well disposed to his relatives, 

*>*T*«i aft *T?qqqf?*m: n??n 

11. If Dhuma is in the 10th, ’the native will be endowed 
with sons and fortunes, be delighted, intelligent, happy and 
truthful. 

UR a ^qqfTO q?TTfqcT: \ 

^ <TTO# t?q u ? ;^( 

12. If Dhuma is in the 11th, the native will be endowed 
with wealth, grains and gold, be beautiful, will have knowledge 
of arts, be modest and be skilful in singing. 

qffKT: <rm*rf * o^r i 

13. If Dhuma is in the 12th, the native will be morally 

fallen, will indulge in sinful acts, be interested in others’ wives, 
addicted to vives, unkind and crafty. ■ 

^ 'Tift ^ HFSJFft 3TTcTqr> fttqlqlffrT: I 
q»qf fii 

14. EFFECTS OF VYATIPATA IN VARIOUS HOUSES 
(upto sloka 25) : If Vyatipata (also known in short as Pata) 
is in the ascendant, the native will be troubled by miseries be 
cruel, will indulge in destructive acts, be foolish and will be’ill- 
disposed to his relatives. 


f^r^fhfafqrHTFT qTrRi5T% I 

ffffTr*TT qR^rPTf II 


^ 1 H 5 -J7r ipata -^ 1 ' n . the2nd ’ the native wiI1 be morally 
crooked be bilious will enjoy pleasures, be unkind but grateful 
be wicked and sinful. s 



240 


Brihat Parasara Ilora Sastra 


fNrcsrsft T^i> stctt TT^t-nr: i 

^stt^ 71 % ^TT'it?f> 

16. IfVyatipata is in the 3rd, the native will be firm in 
disposition, be a warrior, be liberal, very rich, dear to king, 
and be head of an army, 

?REr5tnf{JHTTTOSrT: HrTfltWRqqfe I 

« 

ttt 7T3RRI ^TRTfsr^r ^:u?\su 

17. IfVyatipata is in the 4th, the native will be endowed 
with relative* etc. but not sons and fortunes. 

Sfe"! ^7%77?T: 71% 73^7% I 

•o 

*7rf7tfT0m«yrcft f?R777: 11^711 

18. If Vyatipata is in the 5th, the native will be poor, be 
charming in appearance, will have imbalances of phlegm, bile 
and wind, be hard-hearted and shameless, 

wgcsro tfqfrTFTf «T l 

fq^T: TTHtT: 7T& *177% ^rf?T 

19. IfVyatipata is in the 6th, the native will destroy his 
enemies, be physically rn'ighty, skilful in use of all kinds of 
weapons and in arts, and be peaceful in disposition. 

g:R%JTcT: I 

7T% 7ivT7^ 7>T7t f%vTI*T: 'TOft^U^oll 

20. If Vyatipata is in the 7th, the natiue will be bereft of 
wealth, wife and sons, will subdue to females, be miserable, 
sensuous, shameless and friendly to others. 

fTVHieftt f7^7*^ |%7> ( 

7c7f%7% fp*% 7T% TWTtSTTfT'RrT: 

21. If Vyatipata is in the 8th, the native will have defor- 
mity of eyes, be ugly, unfortunate, spiteful^, to Brahmins and be 
troubled by disorders of blood. 



Chapter 25 


241 


wH 'trmI ^ f^tfsnTT^ fs«r?r*: 113311 

22. If Vyatipata is in the 9th, the native will have many 
kinds of business and many friends, be very learned, well- 
disposed to his wife and be eloquent. 

'TTrRfsf f^r *n?urr?ft l^rem: 113311 

23. If Vyatipata is in the 10th, the native will be rich, 
religious, peaceful, skilful in religious acts, very learned and 
farsighted. 

smaunwH nvft wwul 

3ITT^> »TT^ ^T*HT^ tffo U^VII 

24. If Vyatipata is in the I Ith, the native will be extremely 
opulent, be honourable, truthful, firm in policy, endowed with 
many horses and be interested in singing. 

* sqprqfstft ajift err i 
ir m?? fajq) 113 x 11 

25. If Vyatipata is in the 12th, the native will be given to 
anger, associated with many activities, disabled, irreligious and 
will hate his own relatives. 

flRTrT: TTRft ER3FT I 

TfTtrt 3T?TT 3JTOT gRRH: \\^\\\ 

26. EFFECTS OF PARIDHI (OR PARIVESHA) IN 
VARIOUS HOUSES ( upto sloka 37) : If Paridhi is in the 
ascendant, the native will be learned, truthful, peaceful, rich, 
endowed with sons, pure, charitable and dear to elders. 

frert ^ HHTTm: i 

Tfrtft wTTcT: SR*T*rf?T R5Wll3ttH 

27. If Paridhi is in the 2nd, the native will be wealthy, 
charming, will enjoy pleasures, be happy, very religious and be a 
lord. 



242 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


fStora?*?: frlWSH Knw: 1 

■o 

qfrat n^cii 

28. If Paridhi is in the 3rd, the native will be fond of his 
wife, be very charming, pious, well disposed to his men, be a 
servant and be respectful of his ciders. 

qfra> fafwf r*for<T*mi 

^ \ 

f*ni 5^ »r>T*tfq<f*T iihm 

29. If Paridhi is in the 4th, the native will be wonder- 
struck, helpful to enemies as well, kind, endowed with every- 
thing and be skilful in singing. 

TOtfaFT vOflIM VTJfTtfsnWTJT HWrflvl: \ 

qfrtft *sfHf *r*f?r u^ou 

30. If Paridhi is in the 5th, the native will be affluent, 
virtuous, splendorous, affectionate, religious and dear to bis 
wife. 

«reft s< i g*qrrj qfN> xz: \ 

qfrot R^'Hi«(fq qr: >»W 

31. If Paridhi is in the 6th, the native will be famous and 
wealthy, be endowed with sons and pleasures, be helpful to all 
and will conquer bis enemies. 

WeMWcH: gWjjfrft gfacST: 1 

qfoft aonfere* wnnhiw 

32. If Paridhi is in the 7th, the native will have limited 
number of children, be devoid of happiness, be of mediocre 
intelligence, very hard-hearted, and will have a sickly wife, 

3TWH?*lfaRW: fTRTt ^W5T: I 

tnwfnr qfcft twvMiiw 

33. If Paridhi is in the 8th, the native will be spiritually 
disposed, peaceful, strong-bodied, firm in decision, religious and 
gevtie. 



243 


Chapter 25 

STTeft ERTCqt | 

<TfTeft ER** *TRt II^YII 

34. If Paridhi is in the 9th, the native will be endowed 
with sons, be happy, brilliant, very affluent, be devoid of 
excessive passion, be honourable and be happy with even an iota. 

|nrc?nc: \ 

qfirtrt srqfr qqqirqmreq: 113101 

35. If Paridhi is in the 10th, the native will be versed in 
arts, will enjoy pleasures, be strong- bodied, and be learned in 
all sastras. 

gurqnrqq qfoqnT i 

qfra> sucft q^fa^qra^ 113^11 

36. If Paridhi is in the Ilth, the native will enjoy pleasures 
through women, be virtuous, intelligent, dear to his people and 
will suffer disorders of digestive fire. 

qfra> 5iTcT> wmfq mqq: *rt i 

g:qrqnT 1131911 

37. If Paridhi is in the 12th, the native will always be a 
spendthrift, be miserable, firm and will dishonour elders. 

KWR 1 

1 qgq^ qr: 113*01 

38. EFFECTS OF CHAPA (INDRA DHANUS OR 
KODANDA) IN VARIOUS HOUSES (upto . sloka 49) : If 
Chapa is in the ascendant, the native will be endowed with 
wealth, grains and gold, be grateful, agreeable and devoid of all 
afflictions. 

faqqq: qq?qi^q> fqqfcft fsTOOTSfarT: 1 

q ^qqR aqcKq*: iih» 

39. If Chapa is in the 2nd, the native will speak affably, be 
very rich, modest, learned, charming and religious. 



244 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 

fTST I 

ergfa ht^ ^rrp^ *rara>*p: uyoii 

40. If Chapa is in the 3rd, the native will be a miser, be 
versed in many arts, will indulge in thieving, be devoid of some 
limb and be unfriendly. 

wwt nhRQFmW I 

waGtj 5 Ktftoi) erg atraftnv^u 

41. If Chapa is in the 4th, the native will be happy, 
endowed with quadrupeds, wealth, grains etc , be honoured by 
the king and be devoid of sickness. 

*ifaiTR I 

Wl* ^CTcfr f^J?: Hthnf^ Mv^n 

42. If Chapa is in the 5th, the native will be splendorous, 
far-sighted, pious, affable and will acquire prosperity in all his 
undertakings. 

IRJRTlsftttraw *jf%: l 

*|ootMM«i^ UY^li 

43. If Chapa is in the 6th, the native will destroy his 
enemies, be happy, affectionate, pure and will achieve plentiful- 
ness in all his undertakings. 

3«rci*y>f: fsrer: \ 

^ *T STOT: tlXXII 

44. If Chapa is in the 7th, the native will be wealthy, 
endowed with all virtues, learned in sastras, religious, and 
agreeable. 

TOiRTtT: ^r?:: TTTTTTmEPn: | 

3?c?tTf«n^ farvmw; uvstu 

45. If Chapa is in the 8th, the native will be interested in 
other’s jobs, be cruel, interested in other's wives and be defective 
limbed. 



Chapter 25 245 

?TcT^T?fl ffTffr fiTSHTTSfo^*: I 

a4** ^ sfarfasra; UV^M 

46. If Chapa is in the 9th, the native will perform, penance, 
will take to religious observations, be highly ' learned, and be 
famous among men. 

nW^rf^TFr ir^t i 

uvv9U 

47. If Chapa is in the 10th, the native will be endowed 
with many sons, abundant wealth, cows, buffaloes etc. and will 
be famous among men. 

^m*T W ^ virfffifrft 1 

c s 

48. If Chapa is in the 1 1th, the native will be gainful, 
free from diseases, very fiery in disposition, affectionate to his 
wife and will have knowledge of mantras and weapons (or 
missiles). 

fasfa: liven 

49. If Chapa is in the 12th the native will be wicked, very 
honourable, evil in disposition, shameless, will go to other’s 
females and be ever poor. 

TOfasrra srsft sn^ftgor; fsw i 

?Rt *T53U?r: Vf%cT IlltoH 

50. EFFECTS OF DHWAJ A (i e. SIKHI OR UPAKETU) 
IN VARIOUS HOUSES (upto sloka 61) : IfDhwajais in the 
ascendant, the native will be skilful in all branches of learning, 
be happy, efficient in speech, agreeable and be very affectionate. 

tWRTRtT^ Mf3T l 

Tfo^eft WTfFnforT: US* $11 

51. If Dhwaja is in the 2nd, the native will be a good and 
affable speaker, be splendorous, will write poetry, be scholarly, 
honourable, modest and endowed with conveyances. 



246 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastret 


q?5l}: WTVclf ^ SR^facT: t 

3 fnftrfjf cfarVflf H3TTO^ MX^II 

52. If Dhwaja is in the 3rd, the native will be miserly, 
cruel in acts, thin -bodied, poor and will incur severe diseases. 

g ftrfafa *rt 11x311 

53. If Dhwaja is in the 4th, the native will be charming, 
very virtuous, gentle, interested in Vedas and be always happy. 

'frVft vaifas* \ 

gfawt qfitmjj g^*Tfai-T?wfR?T: morn 

54. If Dhwaja is in the 5th, the native will be happy, will 
enjoy pleasures, be versed in arts, skilled in expedients, intelligent, 
eloquent and will respect elders. 

*rEJT««TiT*T: SgSTFa*: I 

, frgprft v*dt sn^ *tt: *trt> fagsro: moot 

55. If Dhwaja is in the 6th, the native will be ominous for 
maternal relatives, will win over his enemies, be endowed with 
many relatives, valiant, splendorous and skilful. 

nr* g fettfjj*: mt^n 

56. If Dhwaja is in the 7th, the native will be interested in 
gambling, be sensuous, will enjoy pleasures and will befriend 
prostitutes. 

OtRP: *RT I 

RrfWT% 53% jjf% TcTR^m'TSTV: UXVsU 

57. If Dhwaja is in the 8th, the native will be interested in 
base acts, be sinful, shameless, will blame others’ will lack in 
marital happiness and will take others' side. 



Chapter 25 247 

fay n fl srosmm tw: i 

irotf f?T%fa 5 tf% a4in#i| tMw; mtmt 

58. If Dhwaja is in the 9th, the native will wear (religious) 
badges, be delighted, helpfully disposed to all and be skilled in 
religious deeds. 

«fnfcRtaT ^ 

>9 

^IcTT %3I ! 1IV.6.II 

59. O Brahmin, if Dhwaja is in the 10th, the native will be 
endowed with happiness and fortunes, be fond of females, be 
charitable and will befriend Brahmins. 

faTfafa gf^RT: l 

CRISTC WHT: *TT: HtTSKTailfa ll^oll 

60. If Dhwaja is in the 11th, the native will ever acquire 
gains, be very religious, honourable, affluent, fortunate, valiant 
and skilled in sacrificial rites. 

mq<b*UrT: *TT: l 

61. If Dhwaja is in the 12th, the native will be interested 
in sinful acts, be valiant, untrustworthy, unkind, interested in 
others’ females and be short-tempered. 

STrTcT «nqTe*Tfa*T?f: *151 1 

gftT% 5iH: ^m'RT^sTaiifetr: nw 

62. EFFECTS OF GULIKA IN VARIOUS HOUSES 
(upto sloka 73) : IfGulikaisin the ascendant, the native will 
be afflicted by diseases, be lustful, sinful, crafty, wicked and very 

. miserable. 

Notes : Out of all the non-luminous planets, Gulika 
deserves a special consideration in natal horoscopy as well as 
horary astrology. This is also a very important factor in birth 
rectification, and such other important calculations. 

If Gulika is in the ascendant, the native will incur severe 
defects of ejes. He will take to bad acts like thieving. He 



248 brthat Parasara If ora Sastrti 

will disregard religion, be deprived of progeny and be 
dullheaded. His longevity will incur a severe cut. 

As already stated, in the case of each Upagraha and 
Muhurta Vela, the depositor should invariably be considered 
before coming to a conclusion. 


63. If Gulika is in the 2nd, the native will be unsightly in 

appearance, miserable, mean, given to vices, shameless and 
penniless. 


•ii f N °i. teS ^ Sh ° U d Gu,ika ** inthe 2nd house, the native 
will further be unfortunate. His learning will be obstructed off 

and on. He will have speech defects, be harsh in speech, will 
live away from h» people, will not have family happiness, be 
untruthful, will involve in a scandal, be unfit to move among 

Zln?d?*tl w Da “ periods of ,tc 2od lor<i face ,roub,es 


gum**??; 

^5^ 5^% «TTfT> HPret TTS^fstrT: 

64. If Gulika is in the 3rd, the native will be charming in 
appearance, will head a village, be fond of virtuous men and be 
honoured by the king. 

Notes : With Gulika in the 3rd house, one will face 
destruction of co-born. Though fairly rich, he will feel 
distressed. 


65. If Gulika is in the 4th, the native will be sickly 
devoid of happiness, sinful and afflicted due to windy and 
bilious excesses. 

Notes : The native will not befriend anybody but be 
inimical to others inclusive of his relatives. He will be devoid 
Of conveyances or will face risks through conveyances. He will 



Chapter 25 


249 


not have a good house to live in. His last days will be 
miserable and death will be painful after a long confinement, 

3f?T% *TcT*n3FT ?TrfecF?i> ^cT \\\\u 

66. If Gulika is in the 5th, the native will not be praise- 
worthy, be poor, short-lived, spiteful, mean, be a eunuch, be 
subdued by his wife and be a heterodox. 

Notes : The native’s virility or . progenic ability will be 
significantly affected by Gulika's occupying the house of 
progeny. He will not be in a position to obtain issues unless 
Jupiter and the 5th lord are favourable, Gulika in this house 
will make one devoid of God-fearing tendency and be at the 
disposal of his wife. His personal disposition will not be 
agreeable, 

SHTHT: g>c*TT£ : 

67. If Gulika is in the 6th, the native will be devoid of 
enemies, be strong-bodied, spfenorous, liked by his wife, enthu- 
siastic, very friendly and helpful in disposition. 

Notes : When Gulika is in the 6th house, the native will 
be interested in controlling evil spirits and make a livelihood 
from such achievements. He will obtain children. He will be 
very courageous. There will be freedom from diseases if the 
6fh hou^e containing Gulika is a benefic sign. 

«IPTfr^3TR: ( 

wtfarr: gf?r% *rer»rfN* ut-cn 

6,8. If Gulika is in the 7th, the native will subdue to his 
$pouse, be sinful, will go to others’ females, be emaciated, 
qevoid of friendship and will live on wife’s (or a female’s) 
wealth. 7 

Notes: Gulika occupying the 7th house, will make the 
native thrive on a female’s wealth or through the contributions 
of his own spouse. His conjugal life will not cause him any 
happiness. He will possibly have more than one marriage. 



250 


Erihat Parasara If ora Sastta 


His knowledge will not be quite much. In relation to public 
dealings, he will incur misunderstandings and enmity. 

«T: \ 

T?CT*I gorafacr: uhn 

69. If Gulika is in the 8th, the native will be troubled by 
hunger, be miserable, cruel, very much short-tempered, very 
unkind, poor and bereft of good qualities. 

Notes : The native will find it difficult to get even a 
square meal. His face will be ugly. His eyes will be diseased. 
His teeth will be yellowish. He will be quite short in stature. 
These are additional effects as due to the 8th house position of 
Galika, son of Saturn. 

®1‘ I 

gftrfc smn n^oii 

70. If Gulika is in the 9th, the native will undergo many 
ordeals, be emaciated, will perform evil acts, be very unkind, 
sluggish and be a tale-bearer. 

Notes : If Gulika is in the 9th house one will be devoid 
of paternal bliss and good fortunes His father will pass away 
in the native’s childhood itself. None of the native’s undertak- 
ings will bear fruits. 

tfrisnrffaci: 

71. If Gulika is in the 10th, the native will be endowed 
with sons, be happy, will enjoy many things, be fond of worshi- 
pping gods and fire and will practise meditation and religion. 

Notes : The placement of Gulika in the 10th house, will 
prove favourable for Yoga, Meditation and such other achieve- 
ments. The native, at one stage, will turn into a heterodox and 
discard his religious code. 

STHRT ^ Tel: \ 

gf?r% fftarg: itv^u 



251 


Chapter 25 

' 72. If Gulika is in the 1 1th, the native will enjoy women 
of class, be a leader of men, be helpful to his relatives, be short 
in stature and be an emperor. 

Notes : If Gulika is in the 1 1th house, the subject will be 
in the company of many females. He will be devoid of good 
character. He will enjoy progenic happiness, wealth status etc. 
and be charming in appearance. 


5^ TfcWUVs^ll 

73. If Gulika is in the 12th, the native will indulge in base 
deeds, be sinful, defective-limbed, unfortunate, indolent, and 
will join mean people. 

Notes : Gulika's tenancy in the 12th house at birth will 
bring innumerable misfortunes and cause loss of wealth on evil 
missions. One will, however, enjoy progenic happiness. 

effwft fWt Wf?T 1 

s ppfr re ft $*1^ fW ll»YU 

74. EFFECTS OF PR AN A P ADA'S POSITION WITH 
REFERENCE TO THE ASCENDANT (upto sloka 85) : If 
Pranapada is in the ascendant, the native will be weak, sickly, 
dumb, lunatic, dull wilted, defective-limbed, miserable and 
emaciated. 

Notes : Pranapada is a special ascendant. How to calcu- 
late this special sensitive point could be found on p. 47 supra. 

Pranapada will fall in a certain degree and its relation 
with referance to natal ascendant will portend many an event as 
tersely shown in the present 12 verses. 

ageTRft wgroft l 

IHsHU 

75. If Pranapada is in the 2nd, the native will be endowed 
with abundant grains (rice, wheat etc.), abundant wealth, 
abundant attendants, abundant children and be fortunate. 



252 


Brihat Parasara flora Sasira 

fersft *T9*rqTg<?dl i 

76. If Pranapada is in the 3rd, the native will be injurious, 
(or mischievous), proud, hard-hearted, very dirty and be devoid 
of respect for elders. 

STR: HfirqTg \ 

gtf TTPm: srpir q fl?!Rc<TT: |(vs\9|| 

77. If Pranapada is in the 4th, the native will be happy, 
friendly, attached to females and elders, soft and truthful, 

WtSr?TT** [ 

sml qqfTTqqqf^: llvsctU 

78. If Prartapada is in the 5th, the native will be happy, 
will do good acts, be kind, and very affectionate. 

qes ft at fqrrTlJjqigTq wnvstu 

79. If Pranapada is in the 6th, the native will be subdued 
by his relatives and enemies, be sharp, vyili have defective 
digestive fire, be wicked, sickly, affluent and shortlived. 

sn^rr* irrcreq; ^fcqRimoii 

80. If Pranapada is in the 7th, the native vyili be green- 

eyed ever libidinous, fierce in appearaqpe, be not worth respect 
and be ill-disposed. * “ * 


«T>fsq: 

. .. 81, If P fan apada is in the 8th, the flgtive wi|| be afflicted 

by diseases, be troubled and will incur misery on apcoqnt of the 
king, relatives, servants and sons. 


ERqPTR: fifqjjta I' 

STW ?WS|8 ft fro"*: „ c?l , 



Chapter 25 


253 


82. If Pranapada is in the 9th, the native will be endowed 
with sons, be very rich, fortunate, charming, will serve others 
and be not wicked but be skilful. 

tftifa-FT i 

llc^u 

83. If Pranapada is in the 10th, the native will be heroic, 
intelligent, skilful, be an expert in carrying out royal orders, aDd* 
will worship gods. 


sirafr lifter | 

srm iiqvn 

84. If Pranapada is in the 11th, the native will be famous, 
virtuous, learned, wealthy, fair-complexioned and attached to 
mother. 


jfljrrgft fsffqt f^si^tjt 

^ 5TTWT TTpjft 

85 If Pranapada is in the 12th, the native will be mean, 
wicked defect^e-hrahed, will hate Brahmins and relatives and 
will suffer from eye diseases or be one-eyed. 

a«TT tJTft ST^TTOFIT 

fnf^T cfdn 

*RtfW*T Mc^ll 

8 ^’ 87 - 0 Brahmin, these are the effects for Dhooma etc 
(and Pranapada ascendant). Before declaring these results, 
effects of the Sun and other planets should be wisely 
conceived by their positions, relations and aspects apart from 
their strength or weakness. 

^e are advised to look upto the Sun and others 
while declaring the effects due to Dhooma, Gulika etc. So to 
say the depositors of Dhooma etc. Should be scrutinized to 
know the extent of effects. For example if Gulika is due to 
give bad effects, but his depositor is well-aspected, well-placed or 
well-related, the evils are minimised. Conversely if favourable 



‘ Drihat Parasara Ilora Sastra 


254 

effects are due to Gulika etc. the weakness or adverse place- 
ment of the respective depositor will not allow maturity of such 
good effects. 

Another hint we take from these two verses is : We should 
balance the results due to Dhooma, Gulika etc. with the 
results due to the planets from Sun to Saturn (and of course the 
nodes). For example, Gulika is in the llth and good effects are 
due. If a planet posited in the same llth denotes contrary 
results, then the strength of the two will lead to correct 
estimation of the situation. 


3T«r IR^II 

Chapter 26 

Evaluation of Planetary Aspects 

! s>f?T0T ct*jt i 

sfa ^ II 

1. O Glorious, it is said that aspects (of planets) and 
strengths are to be known in deciding the effects. How many 
kinds are these ? Please clarify my doubts. 

tn*T TtftTWTJ 3 ft?: ^5^5TT ^HI%5TI 

F’EIT cTt IRII 

fWl 9 ^ ^ I 

STmfcT rT*TT \\\n 

imi 

*f?T ^jgiif: SlfcTffTfeTT l 

FfigRrercrra T ^ sfc - : uurdwfi mnnxu 

« C V> 

2-5. PLANETARY ASPECTS : O Brahmin, I have ear- 
lier stated aspects based on signs. The other kind is between 



Chapter 26 


255 


planets which I detail below. 3rd and 10th, 5th and 9th, 4th 
and 8th and lastly 7th — on these places the aspects increase 
gradually in slabs of quarters i.e 1/4, 1/2, 3/4th and full. The 
effects (due to such aspects) will also be proportionate. All 
planets aspect the 7th fully. Saturn, Jupiter and Mars have 
special aspects respectively on 3rd and 10th, 5th and 9th, and 
4th and 8th. The ancient preceptors have explained these which 
are ordinary (arising by mere sign positions). By subtle 
mathematical calculations, these aspects will have to be clearly 
understood as under. 

factor ICJR ^Tf*rR>5fa?RFcRIT 1 
risfclT tTiT«T»TT 1 1^11 

*j7TT^ wni sfe, fWfu% m\\ 
r rwf vmi fsrragri i 
5^fo% ft faftT ^rfVr WT^TfofagftT*ft*TT l|t;U 

6-8. ASPECTUAL EVALUATIONS : Deduct the longi- 
tude of the aspected planet (or house) from That of the 
aspecting planet. If the sum exceeds six signs (or 180 deg) 
deduct the sum again from 10 signs (or 300 deg). Con ert 
the latest sum into degrees and divide by two. The resultant 
product is Drishti Kona or aspectual angle. If the difference 
(between aspector and aspected) is in excess of 5 signs, ignore, 
signs and multiply the degrees etc. by 2 which is the aspectual 
value. If the difference 19 in excess of 4 signs deduct it from 5 
signs (or 150 deg) and the resultant degree etc. beeome Drishti 
value. If the difference is in excess of 3 signs deduct it from 4 
signs (or 120 degress) and halve the product to be increased by 
30 to get Drishti value. If the difference is above 2 signs 
ignore signs and add 15 to the degrees etc. to get Drishti value. 
If it is in excess of one sign, ignore Rasis and divide the degrees 
etc, by 2 to get Drishti value. 

faftT tt^t wit j[*t iRtfcf i 

q* fear! nett 



256 


Brlhat Parasara Nora Sastara 

wn *r>nn i 

tsrfcr^tq tjrrfrrg*! srffT:u$oii 

9-10. SPECIAL CONSIDERATION FOR SATURN’S 
ASPECTS : O Brahmin, if Saturn is the aspecting planet find 
out the difference between him and the aspected planet; if the 
sum is above 1 sign, multiply the degrees etc. (ignoring sign) 
by 2 to get Drishti value. If the sum is above nine sings, the 
degrees to elapse be doubled to get aspectual value. If the sum 
is above 2 signs, the degrees etc. (in excess of 2 signs) be 
halved and deducted from 60. If the sum exceeds 8 signs, add to 
the degrees etc, a figure of 30 to get Drishti value. In other 
cases, the sums be processed as explained earlier. 

forcT* a bWtto smtfiraT i 

11. SPECIAL CONSIDERATION FOR MARS’ 
ASPECTS : Deduct the longitude of Mars from that of the 
planet aspected (by Mars). If the sum is 3 Rasis & c or 7 
Rasis & c, the degrees etc. (after ignoring Rasis) be reduced 
from 60. If it is above 2 Rasis, the degrees etc. be increased by 
half of it (i.e. add 50%) and superadd 15. If the sum is 6 
signs, one Rupa is the value. 

fWrTIT 3 WOW I 

feyTRT ll^ll 

TOST | 

«n«TFri ^TRT^TO BT^cT ll^ll 

12. SPECIAL CONSIDERATION FOR JUPITER’S 
ASPECTS : Deduct the longitude of Jupiter from that of the 
planet aspected by him. If the resultant sum is 3 Rasis & cor 
7 Rasis & c, halve the degrees etc. (ignoring Rasis) and 
increase it by 45. If the sum is 4 Rasis & c or 8 Rasis & c, the 
degrees etc. (ignoring Rasis) be subtracted from 60. This 
will be the aspectual value. The sum being in conformity with 
others than these be treated as stated earlier. 

Notes : Throughout this chapter and others related to 
calculation of strengths of planets and houses, the term .‘Virupa* 



Chapter 26 257 

has been used which denotes ‘Shashtiamsas’ or ‘Kalas’. 60 such 
units make one Rupa. 

The planet that aspects is Drisbti Graha or the aspector. 
The planet that is aspected is known as Drisya Graha 
or the aspected. The longitude of ‘the aspected’ is to be 
deducted from that of the aspector. If the longitude of the 
aspected is lesser than that of the aspector, increase the longi* 
tude of ‘the aspected* by 360 to facilitate deduction, which will 
yield the aspectual or Drishti angle. 

After finding out the Drishti angles, the various quantities 
will have to be processed as under with the relevant principles : 

Rule 1. When aspectual angle is between 30 and 60 
degrees, reduce 30 degrees from the resultant aspectual angle 
and divide by 2 to get aspectual value. 

Rule 2. If the aspectual angle is above 60 but below 90 
degrees, reduce 60 from the aspectual angle and add 15 to get 
aspectual value. 

Rule 3. In case the aspectual angle is above 90 but less 
than 120 degrees the aspectual angle be reduced from 120, then 
halved and then increased by 30, to get aspectual value. 

Rule 4. If the aspectual angle is between 120 and 150 
degrees, reduce the angle of aspect from 1 50 to get aspectual 
value, 

Rule5. If the aspectual angle is between 150 and 180 
degrees reduce 150 from aspectual angle and double the 
resultant sum to get aspectual value. 

Rule 6. When the aspectual angle is above 180 but below 
300 degrees deduct the aspectual angle from 300 and halve the 
resultant sum, to get aspectual value. 

Needless to mention there is no aspectual value if the angle 
is between 300 and 30 degrees. 

■ For house in aspect, consider the cusp of the house, akin 
to a planetary degree. 

In the case of aspects from Saturn, Mars and Jupiter, the 
following additions may be noted as a simple formula. 

A) Mars : When the aspect angle is 90-120 degrees or 2 IQ- 
249 degrees, add 15 Virupas to the value obtained from 
the speculum. 



2^8 Brihat Parasara Hora S astro 

B) Jupiter : When the aspect angle is 1 20- 1 50 degrees or 
240-270 degrees increase the speculum value by 30 
Virupas. 

C) Saturn : When the aspect angle is 60-90 degrees or 
270-300 degrees and 45 Virupas to the value obtained 
from the speculum. 

Without undergoing these ordeals, the student can easily 
find out the Drishti values on the above lines from the Speculum 
of Aspectual Values given below : 


Speculum of Aspetual Values (Computerized) 


Deg:Mn Vlrupa Deg:Mn Virupa Deg:Mn Virupa 


30: 0 

.00 

41:30 

5.75 

53: 0 

11.50 

30:30 

.25 

42: 0 

6.00 

53:30 

11.75 

31: 0 

'.50 

42:30 

6.25 

54: 0 

12.00 

31:30 

.75 

43: 0 

6.50 

54:30 

12.25 

32: 0 

1.00 

43:30 

6.75 

55: 0 

12.50 

32:30 

1.25 

44: 0 

7.00 

55:30 

12.75 

33: 0 

1.50 

44:30 

7.25 

56: 0 

13.00 

33:30 

1.75 

45: 0 

7.50 

56:30 

13.25 

34: 0 

2.00 

45:30 

7.75 

57: 0 

13.50 

34:30 

2.25 

46: 0 

8.00 

57:30 

13.75 

35: 0 

2.50 

46:30 

8.25 

58: 0 

14.00 

35:30 

2.75 

47: 0 

8.50 

58:30 

14.25 

36: 0 

3.00 

47:30 

8.75 

59: 0 

14.50 

36:30 

3.25 

48: 0 

9.00 

‘ 59:30 

14.75- 

37: 0 

i 

3.50 

48:30 

9.25 

60: 0 

15.00 

37:30 

3.75 

49: 0 

9.50 

60:30 

15.50 

38: 0 

4.00 

49:30 

9.75 

61: 0 

16.00 

38:30 

4.25 

50: 0 

10.00 

61:30 

16.50 

39: 0 

4.50 

50:30 

10-25 

62: 0 

17.00 

39:30 

4.75 

51: 0 

10.50 

62:30 

17.50 

40: 0 

5.00 

51:30 

10.75 

63: 0 

18.00 

40:30 

5.25 

52: O 

11.00 

63:30 

18.50 

41: 0 

5.50 

52:30 

11.25 

64: 0 

19.00 



Chapter 26 


259 


Deh:Mn Virupa Deg;Mo> Virupa Deg:Mn Vinpa 


64:30 

19.50 

82: 0 

37.00 

99:30 

40.25 

65: 0 

20.00 

82:30 

37.50 

100: 0 

40.00 

65:30 

20.50 

83: 0 

38.00 

100:30 

39.75 

66: 0 

21.00 

83:30 

38.50 

101: 0 

39.50 

66:30 

21.50 

84: 0 

39.00 

101:30 

39.25 

67: 0 

22 00 

84:30 

39.50 

102: 0 

39.00 

67:30 

22.50 

85: 0 

40.00 

102:30 

38.75 

68: 0 

23.00 

85:30 

40.50 

103: 0 

38.50 

68:30 

23.50 

86: 0 

41.00 

103:30 

38.25 

69: 0 

24.00 

86:30 

41.50 

104: 0 

38.00 

69:30 

24.50 

87: 0 

42.00 

104:30 

37.75 

70: 0 

25.00 

87:30 

42.50 

105: 0 

37.50 

70:30 

25.50 

88: 0 

43.00 

105:30 

37 25 

71: 0 

26.00 

88:30 

43.50 

106: 0 

37.00 

71:30 

26.50 

89: 0 

44.00 

106:30 

36.75 

72: 0 

27.00 

89:30 

44.50 

107: 0 

36.50 

72:30 

27.50 

90: 0 

45.00 

107:30 

36 25 

73: 0 

28.00 

90:30 

4475 

108: 0 

36.00 

73:30 

28.50 

91: 0 

44.50 

108:30 

35.75 

74: 0 

29.00 

91:30 

44.25 

109: 0 

35.50 

74:30 

29 50 

92: 0 

44.00 

109:30 

35.25 

75: 0 

30.00 

92:30 

43.75 

110: 0 

3500 

75:30 

30.50 

93: 0 

43.50 

110:30 

34.75 

76: 0 

31.00 

93:30 

43,25 

111: 0 

34.50 

76:30 

31.50 

94: 0 

43.00 

111:30 

34.25 

77: 0 

32.00 

94:30 

42.75 

112: 0 

34.00 

77:30 

32.50 

95: 0 

42.50 

112:30 

33.75 

78: 0 

33.00 

95:30 

■ 42.25 

113: 0 

33.50 

78:30 

33 50 

96: 0 

42.00 

113:30 

33.25 

79: 0 

34.00 

96:30 

41.75 

114: 0 

33.00 

79:30 

34.50 

97: C 

41.50 

11.4:30 

32.75 

80: 0 

35.00 

97-30 

41.25 

115: 0 

32.50 

80:30 

35.50 

98: 0 

41.00 

115:30 

32.25 

81: 0 

36.00 

98:30 

40.75 

116: 0 

32.00 

81:30 

36.50 

99 : 0 

40.50 

116:30 

31.75 




260 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


Deg: Mil Vfrnpa Deg:Mn Virupa Dcg:Mn Virupa 


1 17: 0 

31.50 

134:30 

15.50 

152: 0 

4.00 

117:30 

31.25 

135: 0 

15.00 

152:30 

5.00 

118: 0 

31.00 

135:30 

14.50 

153: 0 

6.00 

1 18:30 

30.75 

136: 0 

14.00 

153:30 

7.00 

119: 0 

30.50 

136:30 

13.50 

154: 0 

8.00 

119:30 

30 25 

137: 0 

13.00 

154:30 

9.00 

120: 0 

30.00 

137:30 

12.50 

155: 0 

10.00 

120:30 

29.50 

138: 0 

12.00 

455:30 

11.00 

121: 0 

29.00 

138:30 

11.50 

156: 0 

12.00 

121:30 

28.-50 

139: 0 

11.00 

156:30 

13.00 

. 122: 0 

28.00 

139:30 

10.50 

157: 0 

14 00 

122:30 

27.50 

140: 0 

10.00 

157:30 

15.00 

123: 0 

27.00 

140:30 

9.50 

158: 0 

16.00 

123:30 

26.50 

141: 0 

• 9.00 

158:30 

17.00 

124: 0 

26.00 

141:30 

8.50 

159: 0 

18.00 

124:30 

25.50 

142: 0 

8.00 

159:30 

19.00 

125: 0 

25.00 

142:30 

7.50 

160: 0 

20.00 

125:30 

24 50 

143: 0 

7.00 

160:30 

21.00 

126: 0 

24.00 

143:30 

6 50 

161: 0 

22 00 

126:30 

23.50 

144: 0 

6.00 

161:30 

23.00 

127: 0 

23.00 

144:30 

5.50 

1*2: 0 

24.00 

127:30 

22,50 

145: 0 

5.00 

162:30 

25.00 

128: 0 

22.00 

145:30 

4.50 

163: 0 

26.00 

128:30 

21.50 

146: 0 

4.00 

163:30 

27.00 

129: 0 

21.00 

146:30 

3.50 

164: 0 

28.00 

129:30 

20.50 

147: 0 

3.00 

‘ 164:30 

29.00 

130: 0 

20.00 

147:30 

2 50 

165: 0 

30.00 

130:30 

19.50 

148: 0 

200 

165:30 

31.00 

131: 0 

19.00 

148:30 

1.50 

166: 0 

32.00 

131:30 

18.50 

149: 0 

1.00 

166:30 

33.00 

'132: 0 

18.00 

149:30 

.50 

167: 0 

34.00 

132:30 

17.50 

150: 0 

.00 

167:30 

35.00 

133: 0 

17.00 

150:30 

1.00 

168: 0 

36.00 

133:30 

16.50 

151: 0 

2.00 

168:30 

37.00 

134: 0 

16,00 

151:30 

3.00 

169: 0 

38.00 


Chapter 26 


261 


... .... ■ ■ ■■■ <ii,. 

Deg:Mn Vimpa Deg:Mn Virupa Deg:Mn Virnpa 


169:30 

39.00 

187: 0 

56.50 

204:30 

47.75 

170: 0 

40.00 

187:30 

56.25 

205: 0 

47.50 

170:30 

41.00 

188: 0 

56 00 

205:30 

47.25 

171: 0 

42.00 

188:30 

55.75 

206: 0 

47.00 

171:30 

43.00 

189: 0 

55.50 

206:30 

46.75 

172: 0 

44.00 

189:30 

55:25 

.207: 0 

46.50 

172:30 

45.00 

190: 0 

55.00 

207:30 

46.25 

173: 0 

46.00 

190:30 

54.75 

208: 0 

46 00 

173:30 

47.00 

191: 0 

54.50 

208:30 

45.75 

174: 0 

48.00 

191:30 

54.25 

209: .0' 

45 50 

174:30 

49.00 

192: 0 

54.00 

209:30 

45.25 

175: 0 

50.00 

192:30 

53.75 

210: 0 

45.00 

175:30 

51.00 

193: 0 

*53.50 

210:30 

44.75 

176: 0 

52.00 

193:30 

53.25 

211: 0 

44.50 

176:30 

53.00 

194: 0 

53.00 

211:30 

44.25 

177: 0 

54.00 

194:30 

52.75 

212: 0 

44.00 

177:30 

55.00 

195: 0 

52.50 

212:30 

43.75 

178: 0 

' 56.00 

195:30 

52.25 

213: 0 

43.50 

178:30 

57,00 

196: 0 

52.00 

213:30 

43.25 

179: 0 

58.00 

196:30 

51.75 

214: 0 

43.00 

179:30 

59.00 

197: 0 

51.50 

214:30 

42.75 

180: 0 

60.00 

197:30 

51.25 

215: 0 

42.50 

180:30 

59.75 

198: 0 

51.00 

215:30 

42.25 

181: 0 

59.50 

198:30 

50.75 

216: 0 

42.00 

181:30 

59.25 

199: 0 

50.50 

216:30 

41.75 

182: 0 

59.00 

199:30 

50.25 

217: 0 

41.50 

182:30 

58.75 

200: 0 

50.00 

217:30 

41.25 

183: 0 

58.50 

200:30 

49.75 

218: 0 

41.00 

183:30 

58.25 

201: 0 

49.50 

218:30 

40.75 

184: 0 

58.00 

201:30 

49.25 

219: 0 

40.50 

184:30 

57.75 

202: 0 

49.00 

219:30 

40.25 

185: 0 

57.50 

202:30 

48.75 

220: 0 

40.00 

185:30 

57.25 

203: 0 

48.50 

220:30 

39.75 

186: 0 

57.00 

203:30 

48.25 

221: 0 

39.50 

186:30 

56.75 

204: 0 

48.00 

221:30 

39.25 





Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


i6i 

DqpMn Vlrupa Deg:Mn Virnpa Deg:Mn Virop* 


J 222 : 0 39.00 
222:30 38.75 
223 : 0 38.50 
223 30 38.25 
224 : 0 38.00 
224:30 37.75 
225 : 0 37.50 
225:30 37.25 
226 : 0 37.00 
226:30 36.75 
227 : 0 36.50 
227.30 36.25 
228 : 0 36.00 
228:30 35.75 
229 : 0 35.50 
229:30 35.25 
230 : 0 35.00 
230:30 34.75 
231 : 0 34.50 
231:30 34.25 
232 : 0 34.00 
232:30 33:75 
233 : 0 33.50 
233:30 33.25 
234 : 0 33.00 
234:30 32.75 
235 : 0 32.50 
235:30 32.25 
236 : 0 32.00 
236:30 31.75 
237 : 0 31.50 
237:30 31.25 
238 : 0 31.00 
238:30 30.75 
239 : 0 30.50 


239:30 30.25 
240 : 0 30.00 
- 240:30 29.75 
241 : 0 29.50 
241:30 29.25 
242 : 0 29.00 
242:30 28.75 
243 : 0 28.50 
243:30 28.25 
244 : 0 28.00 
244:30 27.75 
245 : 0 27.50 
245:30 27.25 
246 : 0 27.00 
246:30 26.75 
247 : 0 26.50 
247:30 26.25 
248 : 0 26.00 
248:30 25.75 
249 : 0 25.50 
249:30 25.25 
250 : 0 25.00 
250:30 24.75 
251 : 0 24.50 
251:30 24.25 
252 : 0 24.00 
252:30 23.75 
253 : 0 23.50 
253:30 23.25 
254 : 0 23.00 
254:30 22.75 
255 : 0 22.50 
255:30 27.25 
256 : 0 22.00 
256:30 21.75 


257 : 0 21.50 
257:30 21.25 
258 : 0 21.00 
258:30 20.75 
259 : 0 20.50 
259:30 20.25 
260 : 0 20.00 
260:30 19.75 
261 : 0 19.50 
261:30 19.25 
262 : 0 19.00 
262:30 18.75 
263 : 0 18.50 
263:30 18.25 
264 : 0 18.00 
264:30 1 7.75 
265 : 0 17.50 
265:30 17.25 
266 : 0 17.00 
266:30 16.75 
267 : 0 16.50 
267:30 16.25 
268 : 0 16.00 
268:30 15.75 
269 : 0 15.50 
269:30 15.25 
270 : 0 15.00 
270:30 14.75 
271 : 0 14.50 
271:30 14.25 
272 ; 0 14.00 
272:30 13.75 
273 : 0 13.50 
273:30 13.25 
274 ; 0 13.00 


Chapter 27 


263 


Deg:Mn Virupa Deg:Mo Virupa Deg:Mn Virupa 


274:30 

12.75 

283: 0 

275: 0 

12.50 

283:30 

275:30 

12.25 

284: 0 

276: 0 

12.00 

284:30 

277:30 

11.75 

285: 0 

276: 0 

11.50 

285:30 

277:30 

11.25 

286: 0 

278; 0 

11.00 

286:30 

278:30 

10.75 

287: 0 

279: 0 

10.50 

287:30 

279:30 

10.25 

288: 0 

280: 0 

10.00 

288:30 

280:30 

9.75 

289: 0 

281: 0 

9.50 

289:30 

281:30 

9.25 

290: 0 

282: 0 

9.00 

290:30 

282:30 

8.75 

291; 0 


8.50 

291:30 

4.25 

8.25 

292: 0 

4.00 

8.00 

292:30 

3.75 

7.75 

293: 0 

3.50 

7.50 

293:30 

3.25 

7.25 

294: 0 

3.00 

7.00 

294:30 

2.75 

6.75 

295: 0 

2.50 

6.50 

295:30 

2.25 

6.25 

296: 0 

2.00 

6.00 

296:30 

1.75 

5.75 

297: 0 

1.50 

5.50 

297:30 

1.25 

5.25 

298: 0 

1.00 

5.00 

298:30 

.75 

4.75 

299: 0 

,50 

4.50 

299:30 

.25 


an* sqcsfsnsnuT m^vjh 

Chapter 27 

Evaluation Of Strengths 

sfNft *ntrffav f^yfta^cT u?n 
fafaifai mayumti 

1-1J. STHAANA BALA (upto sloka 6) FIRSTLY 
UCHCHA BALA Now about the strengths by classes positional, 
temporal etc. (Firstly, Ucbchabala forming part of positional 


26-4 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastrd 

strength or Sthaana bala), Deduct from the longitude of the 
planet its (deep) debilitation point. If the sum is less than 6 
signs, consider it as it is^ if it exceeds 6 signs, deduct the same 
from 12 signs. The sum si> got be converted into degress etc. 
and divided by 3 which is the planet’s Uchchabala or exaltation 
strength (in Virupas). 

Notes : These strengths are called Shadbala. These 
consist of the following ; 

1. Sthaana Bala (or positional strength) 

2. Dig Bala (or directional strength) 

3. Kala Bala (Temporal Strength) inclusive of Ayana Bala 
(or equinoctial strength) 

4. Cheshta Bala (or motional strength) 

5. Naisargika Bala (or natural strength) 

6. Drik Bala (or aspectual strength) 

These strengths are computed for the seven planets from 
the Sun to Saturn. The nodes are not considered. 

Firstly explained is Sthaana Bala due to a planet’s position. 

This strength comprises of the following considerations : 

1. Uchcha Bala (or exaltation strength) 

2. Saptavargaja Bala (or strength accruing out of positions 
in Rasi, Hora, Decahate, Saptamamsa, Navamsa, 
Dvadasamsa and Trimsamsa). 

3. Ojhayugmarasiamsa Bala (strength acquired by place- 
ment in odd/even Rasi and in odd/cven Navamsa), 

4. Kendradi Bala (due to placement in angle, or 
succedent or cadent house). 

5. Drekkana Bala (due to .placement in first, second or 
third decanate of a sign). 

In the present verses under comment the sage explains the 
method to know the Uchchabala of a planet. To find out this 
strength, we need two things. Firstly the planet's actual 
longitude. Secondly its debilitation point which is constant for 
all horoscopes. The deep debilitation points of the 7 planets 
are noted on pp 38-39 supra. 

For example, assume the Sun’s placement in a given case 
is Pisces 12° 15’ (or 342° 15'). His deep debilitation point is 
Libra 10° (or 190°), Hence : 


265 


Chapter 27 

(Sun’s position' — Deep debilitation point) H- 3 

= 342° 15* minus 190 ° . - 
- 

— 152° 1 5' ~ 3 = 50.75 Virupas 

If the sum before division by 3 is in excess of 180 degrees 
deduct it from 360 and then divide by 3 which will be the 
planet’s uchcha bala in Virupas. Maximum Uchcha bala is 
always 60 shashtiamsas or 1 Rupa. 

[PtM ll^ll 

«jht: ii^ii 

fiwtoai 

2-4. SA PTA VARGAJA BALA ; If a planet is in its 
Moolatrikona Rasi, it gets 45 Virupas, in own Rasi 30 Virupas, 
extreme friend’s Rasi 20 Virupas, friend’s Rasi 15 Virupas, 
neutral’s Rasi 10 Virupas, enemy’s Rasi 4 Virupas and in 
extreme enemy’s Rasi 2 Virupas. Similarly these values occur 
for the other 6 divisional occupations, viz. Hora, Decanate, 
Saptamamsa. Navamsa, Dvadasamsa and Trimsamsa. When all 
th-^ are added together the planet’s Saptavargaja Bala emerges. 

Notes : Next step is to find out the Saptavargaja bala of a 
planet. The tables of various Vargas as well as the compound 
relationships of the planets, are given in the previous pages. The 
compound relationships of two given planets, vide P. 42 supra 
(including Hora lordship etc.) be seen in the Rasi chart only 
and not in the concerned divisional chart. Then the strengths 
in Virupas for each of the Sapta vargas be found out and added, 
which is then called saptavargaja bala of the planet. 

4J. OJHAYUGMARAS1AMSA BALA : Each of Venus 
and the Moon in even Rasis and others in odd Rasis acquire a 
quarter of Rupa (i.e. 15 Virupas). These are applicable to such 
Navamsas also. 



266 


Brihat P&raSara Horn Sastrd 


Notes r Each of Jupiter, the Sun, Mars, Mercury and 
Saturn get 35 Virupas if they are placed in odd Rasis. Venus 
and the Moon get similar strength for placement in an even 
sign. Similarly for placement in such odd or even Navamsas. 
The strengths acquired by Rasi and Navamsa positions be added 
together to know the Ojhayugmarasiamsa bala. (Male and 
neutral planets get this strength in male Rasi/Navamsa. 
Female planets get such strength in female Rasi/Navamsa.) 

fr?TTf*ijf?*RTT: n X.U 

5. KENDRADI BALK : A planet in an angle gets full 
strength while one in succedent house gets half and the one in 
cadent house gets a quarter (of Rupa) (as Kendradi bala). 

Notes : Kendradi means angles etc. This denotes three 
groups of four Rasis each. These are angles, (i.e. 1st, 4th, 7th 
and 10th) succedents, (i.e. 2nd, 5th, 8th and llth)and cadeDts, 
(i e. 3rd, 6th, 9th and 12(h). The following are the Kendradi 
balas : 1 

(1) Planet in angle— 60 Virupas 

(2) Planet in succedent=30 Virupas 

(3) Planet in cadent=15 Virupas 

fPTeTT: ^Trf I 

6. DREKKANA BALA : ^fale, female and ijctinaphro- 
dite planets respectively get a quarter Rupa according to 
placements in the first, second and third decapates. 

Notes : This strength is acquired by a planet with Referen- 
ce to its decauate position being in the lst v 2pd, or 3rd part of a 
sign. Male planets are : the Sun, Mars, and Jupiter. Female 
planets are Venus and the Moon. Saturn ^nd Mercury are 
eunuch bodies. A Drekkona bala of 15 Virupas will be acquired 
by planets as under : 

Male planet in 1st Drekkana. 

Female planet in 2nd Drekkana, 

Eunuch planet in 3rd Drekkana. 

For calculations of Drekkana, see Speculum of Drekkanas, 
supra. Needless to mention that if the Drekkana position is 



Chapter 27 267 

other than what is required, then the strength on this count is 
nil. This strength is also called Linga Bala. 

The Balas so far acquired, viz. (I) Uchcha bala, (2) Saptava- 
rgaja bala, (3) Ojhayugmarasiamsa bala, (4) Kendradi bala and 
(5) Drekkana bala be all added together to get net Sthaana bala 
or positional strength. These are in Virupas and hence be 
divided by 60 to know the strength in Rupas. 

3T¥T»T ^ f?r*T flfaUvall 

* ^ N A 

7-7$. DIG BALA OR DIRECTIONAL STRENGTH : 

Deduct the 4th house (i.e. Nadir) from the longitudes of 
Sun and Mars; the 7th house (i.e. descendant) from that of 
Jupiter and Mercury; the 10th house (i.e. meridian) from that of 
Venus and the Moon; and lastly the ascendant from that of 
Saturn. If the sum is above 180 degrees deduct the sum from 
360. The sum arrived in either way be divided by 3 which will 
be the Digbala (or directional strength ) of the planet. 

Notes : As seen earlier, Jupiter and Mercury have Digbala 
in the ascendant. Venus and the Moon have this bala in the 
4th house (i.e. Nadir), Saturn in the descendant and the Sun and 
Mars on the meridian. These strengths are full on the cusp of 
the respective house and nil on the cusp of the opposite house. 
Hence note down the longitude of the concerned planet and the 
cuspal degree on which it is bereft of directional strength. 
Deduct the latter from the former. If the product exceeds 180’ 
deduct the same again from 360. The sum so arrived at be 
divided by 3, which will denote the Digbala of the planet in 
Virupas. The directional strength acquired by a planet when it 
is on fts most powerful point is I Rupa or 60 Virupas. For 
example Saturn exactly on the 7th cusp gets 1 Rupa, and exactly 
on the ascending degree gets zero Virupa as directional 
strength. 

fflHHhslJn dflR ||c;M 

ataw fallen 



268 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastrd 


8-9. KAALA BALA OR TEMPORAL STRENGTH 
(upto sloka 17) : Firstly NATHONNATHA BALA. Find out 
the difference between midnight and apparent birth time which 
is called Unnata. Deduct Unnata from 30 ghatis to obtain Nata 
(-FT). Double the Nata in ghatis which will indicate identical 
Natha bala for the Moon, Mars and Saturn. Deduct the Natha 
from 60 to know the Unnatha bala of the Sun, Jupiter and 
Venus. Mercury, irrespective of day and night, gets full 
Nathonnatha Bala (i.e, of 1 Rupa or 60 Virupas). 

Notes : Kaala Bala (or temporal strength) comprises of 
the following sub divisions : . 

1) Nathonnatha Bala (diurnal and nocturnal strengths), 

2) Paksha Bata (Paksha=fortnight). 

3) Tribhaga Bala (strength due to day/night being made in 
3 parts). 

4) Varsha-Masa-Dioa-Hora Bala (Varsha— astrological 

year, Masa=month, Dina=week day and Hora— 
planetary hour). 

5) Ayana Bala (equinoctial strength). 

6) Yudhdha Bala (strength due to partaking in planetary 
war). 

Though Naisargika bala discussed in between in sloka 14, 
this is an independent source of strength without reference to 
Kala bala. 

Firstly Nathonnatabala, Moon, Mars and Saturn get this 
strength in the night. The Sun, Jupiter and Venus get diurnal 
strength or strength in day time. The same Virupas of strength 
will be identically held by all the planets of each group. That 
is whatever will be the Sun’s Nathonnata strength will be 
identically held by Jupiter and Venus. Similarly the other 
group. 

Formula : Natha ghatis (apparent) x 2=Natha bala for 
Moon group. 

60— Moon’s Natha Bala— Bala for Sun group 

Mercury always gets 1 Rupa as Nathonnatha bala irrespe- 
ctive of the birth being in day or night time. 

Another simple method is as under : 

Natha Bala = Brith time in degrees 

3 '• 

— 180 Minus birth time in degrees 
3 ' 


Unnatha Bala 



Chapter 27 269 

For this purpose count from apparent midnight to birth 
time at the rate of one degree per minute of time, or 15° per 
hour. This will convert the birth time into degrees etc. 

«w tow fareihw *1 

faWt wrote; u ? on 

«n f TRt «TWHWT U??ll 

10-11. PAKSHA BALA : Deduct from the Moon’s longi- 
tude that of the Sun. If the sum exceeds 6 signs, deduct the 
same from 12. The product so obtained be converted into 
degrees etc and divided by 3 which will indicate the Paksha 
bala of each of the benefic planets. The Paksha bala of benefic 
should be deducted from 60 which will go to each malefic as 
paksha bala. 

Notes : Paksha bala is decided on the following basis : 

Paksha bala for benefic — Moon minus Sun 

3 

Paksha bala for malefic =60 minus benefic’s Paksha bala, 

‘Benefics form one group and each of them will get the 
same figure of Paksha bala. (Mercury is to be treated as a 
malefic if he is conjunct a malefic. The Moon in dark half is a 
malefic.) The bala of benefics should be deducted from 60 to 
get a malefic’s Paksha bala. If Moon— Sun is above 180, deduct 
it from 360. 

Whether the Moon is in a group of benefics or otherwise, 
her Paksha bala is always doubled just as the Sun’s Ayana bala. 

•o ^ 

12. TRIBHAGA BALA : One Rupa is obtained by 
Mercury (if birth is) in the first one third part of day time, by 
the Sun in the second one third part of the day and by Saturn in 
the last third part of the day. Similarly, the Moon, Venus and 
Mars get full strength (of one Rupa) in the first, second and 
last one third parts of the night. Jupiter gets this strength at 
all times. 


270 


Brlhat Parasara flora Sastra 


Notes : This strength goes to one planet only, as I rupa. 
Jupiter, however, gets 1 Rupa irrespective of birth time. 

The day duration or night duration according to birth 
being in day or night must be divided by 3. With the foIlQwing 
table, Tribhaga bala can be known, according to the birth 
being : 

in 1st part of day— 1 Rupa to Mercury 
in 2nd part of day=l Rupa to the Sun 
in 3rd part of day=l Rupa to Saturn 
in 1st part of night=l Rupa to the Moon 
in 2nd part of nighj— 1 Rupa to Venus 
in 3rd part of night= 1 Rupa to Mars 
atanytime=l Rupa to Jupiter 

Thus two planets will get 1 Rupa of Tribhaga bala. That 
is 1 Rupa to Jupiter and 1 Rupa to the respective planet in 
whose part the birth occurs. The other 5 planets do not get any 
Tribhaga bala. 

flfow g*T lit 311 

13. V A R SHA-MA A 5.4 -DIN A- HO R A BALA : 15,-30, 45 
and 60 Virupas are in order given to Varsha lord, Maasa lord 
Dina lord and Hora lord. Naisargika bala (or natural, strength) 
has already been explained. 

Notes : Under this heading, four different planets get 
certain Virupas. These strengths are : 

Varsha (Abda) lord = 15 Virupas 

Masa (month), lord 30 Virupas 
Dina (day) lord = 45 Virupas 
Hora (hour) lord = 60 Virupas 

How to decide the said lordships is explained as under. 

Varsha lord : Astrological year is different from other 
measures. The day on which the astrological year begins can 
be found out from the Speculum of abbreviated Aharganas, 
vide p.272. To know the Varsha lord we should first ascertain the 
number of days past from the beginning of Creation. This is a 
very tedious process and hence we are concerned with the 
abbreviated Ahargana (or the number of days past from 



Chapter 27 271 

Creation). According to late Rev. Ebenezer Burgess, who 
translated Surya Siddhanta in English, as on January 1, I860, 
the number of days past from the beginning of Creation are 
714, 404, 108, 57 3. 

To know the day on which the astrological year in which 
birth took place began adopt the following formula. Divide the 
number of days past from the day of Creation till the day of 
birth by 160. Reject remainder and multiply the quotient by 
3. Increase the post-multiplied product by I and divide by 7. 
The remainder will indicate the week day on which the astrolo- 
gical year giving birth to the native opened. Remainder 1 
indicates Sunday, 2 Monday and so on and so forth. 

Assume that birth took place on June I, 1984. Locate 
from the Speculum of Abbreviated Aharganas for January O 
date 1984 as 65142. Add 153 being the number of days upto 
the day of birth (inclusive the birth date). Thus we get abbre- 
viated days past from creation to birth as 65295. This product 
when divided by 360 yields a quotient of 181. Remainder is to 
be rejected. 181 multiplied by 3 indicates 543. Increased by 1, 
this gives 544. When 544 is divided by 7, the remainder is 5. 
That is, the astrological year of birth for one born on June 1, 
1984 began on a Thursday. Hence this strength or Varsha 
bala goes to Jupiter, the ruler of Thursday. 

Masa Lord : Divide the same Ahargana by 30 and the 
quotient (devoid of remainder) indicates months passed from 
Creation to birth. The completed months be multiplied by 2 
and increased by 1. The latest sum should be divided by 7 and 
the remainder indicates on which the birth month began. 
Continuing with the same case, we divide 65295 by 30. 
Quotient is 2176. This sum multiplied by 2 and increased by 
1 denotes 4353. Dividing 4353 by 7, we get a remainder of 6 
denoting Friday. That is, the month of birth began on Friday 
and the Masa bala goes to Venus, the lord of Friday. 

Dina lord : Though the week day of birth can be known 
from ephemeris or perpetual calendars, we better adopt the 
method prescribed which will confirm if the Ahargana followed 
is correct or is otherwise. The number of t*'ys as arrived above 
indicating Ahargana be divided by 7 and the remainder will 
indicate the week day of birth. In the example case 65295 


272 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


divided by 7 leaves a remainder of 6. That is June 1,1984 is 
Friday. Hence the Ahargana followed by us is correct. While 
considering Dina bala, the birth should be treated from sunrise 
to sunrise. 

Hence in this case, the Dina bala goes to Venus, ruler of 
Friday. 

Hora$aIa : Hora means planetary hour. Each day from 
sunrise to sunrise is divided into 24 equal parts of one hour or 
2.5 ghatikas. These Horas are ruled by the 7 planets from the 
Sun to Saturn. The first Hora of the day is ruled by the lord 
of the week day. The 2nd one is ruled by the lord of the 6th 
week day counted from the first ruler. The 3rd Hora is ruled 
by the lord of the 6th week day counted from the 2nd Hora 
lord. Similarly it proceeds in the same manner till the first 
Hora of the next day is taken over by the lord of that day 
himself. Whichever planet rules the birth Hora gets the Hora 
Bala. Horas are to be calculated for mean local time and nqt 
standard time of birth. 

For easy reference, consult the Speculum of Horas 
Vide infra. 


Speculum of Abbreviated Ahargana for January 0 


Yr. Ahargana Yr. Ahargana Yr. Ahargana 


1800 
1801 
1802 
1803 
1 8p4* 

1805 

1806 
1807. 
1808* 

1809 

1810 
1811 
1812* 


458 

823 

1188 

1553 

1918 

2284 

2649 

494 

859 

1225 

1590 

1955 

2320 


1813 

1814 

1815 
1816* 

1817 

1818 
1819 
1820* 
1821 
1822 
1823 
1824# 
1825 


2686 . 

3051 

3416 

3781 

4147 

4512 • 

4877 

5242 

5608 

5963 

6338 

6703 

7069 


1826 
1827 
1 828* 
1829 
183a 
1831 
1832# 
1833. 

1834 

1835 
1836# 
1J37 
1838 


7434 

7799 

8164 

8530 

8895 

9260 

9625 

9991 

10356 

10721 

11086 

11452 

11817 



Chapter 27 


273 


Yr. 

Aiiargana 

Yr. 

Ahargana 

Yr. 

Ahargana 

1839 

12182 

1875 

25334 

1911 

38479 

1S40* 

12547 

1876# 

25696 

1912* 

38844 

1841 

12913 

1877 

26062 

1913 

39210 

1842 

13278 

1878 

26427 

1914 

39575 

1843 

13643 

1879 

26792 . 

1915 

39940 

1844# 

14008 

oo 

oc 

O 

* 

27157 

1916* 

40305 

1845 

14374 

1881 

27523 

1917 

40671 

1846 

14739 

1882 

27888 

1918 

41036 

1847 

15104 

1883 

28253 

1919 

41401 

1848* 

15469 

1 884* 

28618 

1920# 

41766 

1849 

15835 

1885 

28984 

1921 

42132 

1850 

16200 

1886 

29349 

1922 

42497 

1851 

16565 

1887 

29714 

1923 

42862 

1852* 

16930 

1 888* 

30079 

1924* 

43227 . 

1853 

17296 

1889 

30445 

1925 

43593 

1854 

17661 

1890 

30810 

1926 

43958 

1855 

18026 

1891 

31175 

1927 

44323 

1856* 

18391 

1892* 

31540 

1928# 

44688 

1857 

18757 

1893 

31906 

1929 

45054 

1858 

19122 

1894 

32271 

1930 

45419 

1859 

19487 

1895 

32636 

1931 

45784 

I860* 

19852 

1 896* 

33001 

1932* 

46149 

1861 

20218 

1897 

33367 

1933 

46515 

1862 

20583 

.1898 

33732 

1934 

46880 

1863 

20948 

1899 

34097 

1935 

47245 

1864* 

21313 

1900 

34462 

1936* 

47610 

1865 

21679 

1901 

34827 

1937 

47976 

1866 

22044 

1902 

35192 

1938 

48341 

1867 

22409 

1903 

35557 

1939 

48706 

1868* 

22774 

1904# 

35922 

1940* 

49071 

1869 

23140 

1905 

36288 

1941 

49437 

1870 

23505 

1906 

36653 

1942 

49802 

1871 

23870 

1907 

37018 

1943 

50167 

1872* 

24235 

1908# 

37383 

1944# 

50532 

1873 

24601 

1909 

37749 

1945 

50898 

1874 

24966 

1910 

38114 

1946 

51263 




274 


Brihat Parasara Horn Sastra 


Yr. 

Ahargana 

Yr. Ahargana 

Yr. 

Ahargana 

1947 

51628 

1965 

58203 

1983 

64777 

1948* 

51993 

1966 

58568 

1984* 

65142 

1949 

52359 

1967 

58933 

1985 

65508 

1950 

52724 

1968* 

59298 

1986 

65873 

1951 

53089 

1969 

59664 

1987 

66238 

1952* 

53454 

1970 

60029 

1988# 

66603 

1953 

53820 

1971 

60394 

1989 

66969 

1954 

54185 

1972* 

60759 

1990 

67334 

1955 

54550 

1973 

61125 

1991 

67699 

1956* 

54915 

1974 

61490 

1992* 

68064 

1957 

5528 1 

1975 

61855 

1993 

68430 

1958 

55646 

1976* 

62220 

1994 

68795 

1959 

56011 

1977 

62586 

1995 

69160 • 

1960* 

56376 

1978 

62951 

1996* 

69525 

1961 

56742 

1979 

63316 

1997 

69891 

1962 

57107 

1980# 

63681 

1998 

70256 

1963 

57472 

1981 

64047 

1999 

70621 

1964* 

57837 

1982 

64412 




• Leap years. 


Common Years — Days for Zero Dates of Months 

Date 

Days 

Date 

Days 

Date 

Days 

Jan- 0 

0 

May 0 

120 


243 

Feb. 0 

31 

June 0 

151 


273 

Mar. 0 

59 

July 0 

181 



April 0 

90 

Aug. 0 

212 


334 


Leap Years- 

—Days for Zero Dates of Months 


Date 

Days 

Date 

Days 

Date 

Days 


Jan. 0 

0 

May 0 

121 

Sept 0 

244 

Feb- 0 

31 

June 0 

152 

Oct. 0 

274 

Mar. 0 

60 

July 0 

182 

Nov. 0 

305 

April 0 

91 

Aug. 0 

213 

Dec. 0 

335 


Chapter 27 


275 


Speculum of Horas 


Hora 

Sun 

Mon 

Tut 

Wed 

Thu 

Fri 

Sat 

1. 

Sun 

Moon 

Mar 

Merc 

Jup 

Ven 

Sat 

2. . 

Ven 

Sat 

Sun 

Moon 

Mar 

Merc 

Jup 

3. 

Merc 

Jup 

Ven 

Sat 

Sun 

Moon Mar 

4. 

Moon 

Mar 

Merc 

Jup 

Ven 

Sat 

Sun 

5. 

Sat 

Sun 

Moon 

Mar 

Merc 

Jup 

Ven 

6. 

Jup 

Ven 

Sat 

Sun 

Moon 

Mars 

Merc 

7. 

Mars 

Merc 

Jup 

Ven 

Sat 

Sun 

Moon 

8. 

Sun 

Moon 

Mars 

Merc 

Jup 

Ven 

Sat 

9. 

Ven 

Sat 

Sun 

Moon 

Mars 

Merc Jup 

10. 

Merc 

Jup 

Ven 

Sat 

Sun 

Moon 

Mars 

11. 

Moon 

Mars 

Merc 

Jup 

Ven 

Sat 

Sun 

. 12. 

Sat 

Sun 

Moon 

Mars 

Merc 

Jup 

Ven 

13. 

Jup 

Ven 

Sat 

Sun 

Moon 

Mars 

Mere 

14. 

Mars 

Merc 

Jup 

Ven 

Sat 

Sun 

Moon 

15. 

Sun 

Moon 

Mars 

Merc 

Jup 

Ven 

Sat 

16. 

Ven 

Sat 

Sun 

Moon 

Mars 

Merc 

Jup 

17. 

Merc 

Jup 

Ven 

Sat 

Sun 

Moon 

Mars 

18. 

Moon Mars 

Merc 

Jup 

Ven 

Sat 

Sun 

19. 

Sat 

Sun 

Moon 

Mars 

Merc 

Jup 

Ven 

20. 

Jup 

Ven 

Sat 

Sun 

Moon 

Mars 

Merc 

21. 

Mars 

Merc 

Jup 

Ven 

Sat 

Sun 

Moon 

22. 

Sun 

Moon 

Mars 

Merc 

Jup 

Ven 

Sat 

23. 

Ven 

Sat 

Sun 

Moon 

Mars 

Merc 

Jup 

24. 

Merc Jup 

Ven 

Sat 

Sun 

Moon Mars 


276 


Brihal Parasara Hora Sastra 


eRTT* l 

wHV fra! ii^ii 

14, NAISARGIKA BALA (NATURAL STRENGTH) : 
Divide one Rupa (or 60 Virupas) by 7 and multiply the resultant 
product by 1 to 7 separately which will indicate the Natural 
Strength due to Saturn, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, the 
Moon and the Sun, respectively. 

Notes : As per the above rule, the Naisargika Bala in 
Rupas are indicated below so that the reader need not calculate 
himself. 

Sun — 1. 000 Rupa 
Moon— 0.857 Rupa 
Mars — 0.286 Rupa 
Merc = 0.429 Rupa 
Jup =: 0.571 Rupa 
Ven = 0.714 Rupa 
Sat = 0.143 Rupa 

This strength is acquired by a planet due to its luminosity. 
The brightest gets the highest Naisargika Bala while the least 
bright gets the least Naisargika Bala. The Sun is the brightest 
among the 7 planets while Saturn is the darkest. The brightness 
of the planets can be guessed from the above figures. 

This is an independent strength and has nothing to do with 
Kala Bala, and is constant for all nativities and for ever. Hence 
no individual calculations need be done. 

Naisargika Bala has a significant use in the Shadbala, If 
two planets are of equal Shadbala, then the one with higher 
Naisargika Bala prevails over the other. 

mmHC KT: tsrowfalT: I 

« i UH»j^ i rvi qgira^f<reT m \\ un 

fJHIledliytldT $PTT: I 

str tott i 

fafawr 



Chapter 27 277 

15-17 AY AN A BALA : 45, 33 and 12 are the Khandas 
for calculating Ayana Bala. Add Ayanamsa to the planet (for 
which Ayana Bala is required) and find out the Bhuja (distance 
from the nearest equinox). Add the figure corresponding to the 
Rasi (of the Bhuja) to the Bhuja. The degrees etc. of the Bhuja 
(devoid of Rasi) be multiplied by the figure corresponding to the 
higher of the left out Khandas and divided by 30. Add the 
resultant product to the sum obtained earlier. Convert this 
into Rasi etc. If the Moon and Saturn are in Libra or ahead 
add to this 3 Rasis, and if sn Aries to Virgo reduce from 3 Rasis. 
Similarly it is reverse for the Sun, Mars, Venus and Jupiter, (i.e. 
addition or deduction is converse). For Mercury 3 Rasis are 
always additive. The resultant sum in Rasi, degrees and minutes 
be divided by 3 to get the Ayana Bala in Rupas. 

Notes : Ayana Bala can be found out on the following 
simple formula. 

Ayana Bala — 23 27 + Kranti v 
46° 54' 

=(23 0 27' plus or minus Kranti)x 1.2793 

The following points have to be remembered in respect of 
of Krantis. When the Moon or Saturn have Southern Kranti or 
when the Sun, Mars, Jupiter or Venus have Northern Kranti, take 
plus. In a contrary situation in respect of these 6 planets, take 
minus. As far as Mercury is concerned, it is always plus 
whether he has Southern Kranti or Northern Kranti. Krantis 
(or declinations) can be ascertained from standard modern 
ephemeris. 

The Sun’s Ayana Bala is again multiplied by 2 whereas for 
others the product arrived in Virupas is considered as it is. 

The following speculum will help the reader to easily work 
out the Ayana Bala, when the Kranti of a planet is known. 



278 


ttrihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


Speculum of Ayana Bala 


Kranti 

+ 

23° 27' 

Ayana 

Bala 

Kranti 

¥ 

23° 27' 

0 * 


ft * 

0 0 

0.0 

2 35 

0 5 

0.1 

2 39 

0 9 

0.2 

2 44 

0 14 

03 

2 49 

0 19 

0.4 

2 54 

0 23 

0.5 

2 58 

0 28 

0.6 

3 3 

0 33 

0.7 

3 8 

0 38 

0.8 

3 12 

0 42 

0.9 

3 17 

0 47 

1.0 

3 22 

0 52 

1.1 

4 26 

0 56 

1.2 

3 31 

1 1 

1.3 

3 36 

• i 

1.4 

3 40 

l 1C 

1.5 

3 45 

1 15 

1.6 

3 50 

1 20 

1.7 

3 55 

1 24 

1.8 

3 59 

1 29 

1.9 

4 4 

1 34 

2.C 

4 9 

1 38 

2.1 

4 13 

143 

2.2 

4 18 

1 48 

2.3 

4 23 

1 53 

2.4 

4 27 

1 57 

2.5 

4 32 

2 2 

2.6 

4 37 

2 7 

2.7 

4 41 

2 11 

2.8 

4 46 

2 16 

2.9 

4 51 

2 21 

3.0 

4 55 

2 25 

3.1 

5 0 

2 30 

3.2 

5 5 


Ayafta Kranti Ayana 

Bala + Bala 

23° 27' 


3.3 

O * 

5 10 

6.6 

3.4 

5 14 

6.7 

3.5 

5 19 

6.8 

3.6 

5 24 

6.9 

3.7 

5 28 

7.0 

3.8 

5 33 

7.1 

3.9 

5 38 

7.2 

4.0 

5 42 

7.3 

4.1 

5 47 

7.4 

4.2 

5 52 

7.5 

4.3 

5 56 

7.6 

4.4 

6 l 

7.7 

4.5 

6 6 

7.8 

4.6 

6 11 

7.9 

4.7 

6 15 

8.0 

4.8 

6 20 

8.1 

4.9 

6 25 

8.2 

5.0 

6 29 

8.3 

5.1 

6 34 

8.4 

5.2 

6 39 

8.5 

5.3 

6 43 

8.6 

5.4 

6 48 

8.7 

5.5 

6 53 

8.8 

5.6 

6 57 

8.9 

5.7 

7 2 

9.0 

5.8 

7 7 

9.1 

5.9 

7 11 

9.2 

6.0 

7 16 

9.3 

6.1 

7 21 

9.4 

6.2 

7 26 

9.5 

6.3 

7 30 

9.6 

6.4 

7 35 

9.7 

6.5 

7 40 

9.8 


Chapter 27 


279 



280 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


Kraoti Ayana Kranti 

+ Bala + 

23 ° 27 23 ° 27 


0 • 
15 43 

20.1 

0 * 

18 22 

15 47 

20.2 

18 27 

15 52 

20.3 

18 32 

15 57 

20.4 

18 36 

16 1 

20 5 

1841 

16 6 

20.6 

18 46 

16 11 

20.7 

18 50 

16 16 

20.8 

18 55 

16 20 

20.9 

19 0 

16 25 

21.0 

19 4 

16 30 

21.1 

19 9 

16 34 

21.2 

19 14 

16 39 

21.3 

19 18 

16 44 

21.4 

19 23 

16 48 

21.5 

19 28 

16 53 

21.6 

19 33 

16 58 

21.7 

19 37 

17 2 

21.8 

19 42 

17 7 

21.9 

19 47 

17 12 

22.0 

19 51 

17 16 

22.1 

19 56 

17 21 

22.2 

20 1 

17 26 

22.3 

20 5 

17 31 

22.4 

20 10 

17 35 

22.5 

20 15 

17 40 

22.6 

20 19 

17 45 

22.7 

20 24 

17 49 

22.8 

20 29 

17 54 

22.9 

20 33 

17 59 

23.0 

20 38 

18 3 

23.1 

20 43 

18 8 

23.2 

20 48 

18 13 

23.3 

20 52 

18 17 

23.4 

20 57 


Ayana Kranti Ayana 

Bala + Bala 

23 ° 27 


23.5 

o < 

21 2 

26.9 

23.6 

21 6 

27.0 

23.7 

21 11 

27.1 

23.8 

21 16 

27 2 

23.9 

21 20 

27-3 

24.0 

21 25 

27.4 

24.1 

21 30 

27.5 

24.2 

21 34 

27.6 

24-3 

21 39 

27.7 

24.4 

21 44 

27.8 

24.5 

21 49 

27 9 

24.6 

21 53 

28.0 

24.7 

21 58 

28.1 

24.8 

22 3 

28.2 

24.9 

22 7 

28.3 

25.0 

22 12 

■ 28.4 

25.1 

22 17 

28.5 

25.2 

22 21 

28.6 

25.3 

22 26 

28.7 

25.4 

22 31 

28.8 

25.5 

22 35 

28.9 

25.6 

22 40 

29.0 

25.7 

22 45 

29.1 

25.8 

22 49 . 

29.2 

25.9 

22 54 

29.3 

26.0 

22 59 

29.4 

26.1 

23 4 

29.5 

26.2 

23 8 

29,6 

26.3 

23 13 

29.7 

26.4 

23 18 

29.8 

26.5 

23 22 

29.9 

26.6 

23 27 

30.0 

26.7 

23 32 

30.1 

26,8 

23 36 

30.2 




Chapter 27 


281 


Kranti 

+ 

23° 27' 

Ayana 

Bala 

Kranti 

+ 

. 23° 27' 

Ayana 

Bala 

Kranti 

+ 

. 23° 27' 

Ayana 

Bala 

0 * 
23 41 

30 3 

o t 

26 21 

33.7 

o • 

29 0 

37.1 

23 46 

30.4 

26 25 

33.8 

29 5 

37.2 

23 50 

30,5 

26 30 

33.9 

29 9 

37.3 

23 55 

30.6 

26 35 

34.0 

29 14 

37.4 

24 0 

30.7 

26 39 

34.1 

29 19 

37.5 

24 5 

30.8 

26 44 

34.2 

29 23 

37.6 

24 9 

30.9 

26 49 

34.3 

29 28 

37.7 

24 14 

31.0 

26 53 

34.4 

29 33 

37.8 

24 19 

31.1 

26 58 

34.5 

29 38 

37.9 

24 23 

31.2 

27 3 

34.6 

29 42 

38.0 

24 28 

31.3 

27 7 

34.7 

29 47 

38.1 

24 33 

31.4 

27 12 

34.8 

29 52 

38.2 

24 37 

31.5 

27 17 

34.9 

29 56 

38.3 

24 42 

31.6 

27 22 

35.0 

30 1 

38.4 

24 47 

31.7 

27 26 

35.1 

30 6 

38.5 

24 51 

31.8 

27 31 

35.2 

30 10 

38.6 

24 56 

31.9 

27 36 

35.3 

30 15 

38.7 

25 1 

32 0 

27 40 

35.4 

30 20 

38.8 

25 5 

32.1 

27 45 

35.5 

30 24 

38.9 

25 10 

32.2 

27 50 

35.6 

30 29 

39.0 

25 15 

32.3 

27 54 

35.7 

30 34 

39.1 

25 20 

32.4 

27 59 

35.8 

30 38 

39.2 

25 24 

32.5 

28 4 

35.9 

30 43 

39.3 

25 29 

32 6 

28 8 

36.0 

30 48 

39.4 

25 34 

32.7 

28 13 

36.1 

30 53 

39.5 

25 38 

32.8 

28 18 

36.2 

30 57 

39.6 

25 43 

32.9 

28 22 

36.3 

31 2 

39.7 

25 48 

33.0 

28 27 

36.4 

31 7 

39.8 

25 52 

33.1 

28 32 

36.5 

31 11 

39.9 

25 57 

33.2 

28 37 

36.6 

31 16 

40.0 

26 2 

33.3 

28 41 

36.7 

31 21 

40.1 

26 6 

33.4 

28 46 

36.8 

31 25 

40.2 

26 11 

33-5 

28 51 

36.9 

31 30 

40.3 

26 16 

33.6 

28 55 

37.0 

31 35 

40.4 


Brihat Parasara Bora Sastra 


282 


Kranti Ayana Kranti A) ana Kranti Ayana 

+ Bala + Bala + Bala 

23° 27' 23 a 27' 23° 27' 

o # e» * 


31 39 

40.5 

31 44 

40.6 

31 49 

40.7 

31 54 

40.8 

31 58 

40.9 

32 3 

410 

32 8 

41,1 

32 12 

41.2 

32 17 

41.3 

32 22 

41.4 

32 26 

41.5 

32 31 

41.6 

32 36 

41.7 

32 40 

41 8 

32 45 

41.9 

32 50 

42.0 

32 54 

42.1 

32 59 

42,2 

33 4 

42,3 

33 9 

42.4 

33 13 

42.5 

33 18 

42.6 

33 23 

42.7 

33 27 

42.8 

33 32 

42.9 

33 37 

43.0 

33 41 

43.1 

33 46 

43.2 

33 51 

43.3 

33 55 

43.4 

34 0 

43.5 

34 5 

43.6 

34 10 

43.7 

34 14 

43.8 


34 19 

43.9 

34 24 

44.0 

34 28 

44.1 

34 33 

44.2 

34 38 

44.3 

34 42 

14.4 

34 47 

44.5 

34 52 

44.6 

34 56 

44.7 

35 1 

44.8 

35 6 

44.9 

35 11 

45.0 

35 15 

45.1 

35 20 

45.2 

35 25 

45.3 

35 29 

45.4 

35 34 

45.5 

35 39 

45.6 

35 43 

45.7 

35 48 

45.8 

35 53 

45.9 

35 57 

46.0 

36 2 

46.1 

36 7 

46.2 

36 11 

46.3 

36 16 

46.4 

36 21 

46.5 

36 26 

46.6 

36 30 

46.7 

36 35 

46.8 

36 40 

46.9 

36 44 

47.0 

36 49 

47.1 

36 54 

47.2 


36 58 

47.3 

37 3 

47.4 

37 8 

47.5 

37 12 

47.6 

37 17 

47.7 

37 22 

47.8 

37 27 

47.9 

37 31 

48.0 

37 36 

48.1 

37 41 

48.2 

37 45 

48.3 

37 50 

48.4 

37 55 

48.5 

37 59 

48.6 

38 4 

48.7 

38 9 

48.8 

38 13 

48.9 

38 18 


38 23 

49,1 

38 27 


38 32 

49.3 

38 37 

49.4 

38 42 

49.5 

38 46 

49.6 

38 51 

49.7 

38 56 

49.8 

39 0 

49.9 

39 5 


39 10 

50.1 

39 14 


39 19 


39 24 


39 28 


39 33 

50.6 



Chapter 27 


283 


Kranti 

+ 

23° 27' 

Ayana 

Bala 

Kranti 

+ 

23° 27' 

Q • 

39 38 

50.7 

O * 

42 8 

39 43 

50.8 

42 13 

39 47 

50 9 

42 17 

39 52 

51.0 

42 22 

39 57 

51.1 

42 27 

40 1 

51.2 

42 31 

40 6 

51.3 

42 36 

40 11 

51.4 

42 41 

40 15 

51.5 

42 45 

40 20 

51.6 

42 50 

40 25 

51.7 

42 55 

40 29 

51.8 

43 0 

40 34 

51.9 

43 4 

40 39 

52.0 

43 9 

40 43 

52.1 

43 14 

40 48 

52‘2 

43 18 

40 53 

52.3 

43 23 

40 58 

52.4 

43 28 

41 2 

52.5 

43 32 

41 7 

52.6 

43 37 

41 12 

52.7 

93 42 

41 16 

52.8 

43 46 

41 21 

52.9 

43 51 

41 26 

53.0 

43 56 

41 30 

53.1 

44 0 

41 35 

53.2 

44 5 

41 40 

53.3 

44 10 

41 45 

53.4 

44 15 

41 49 

53.5 

44 19 

41 54 

53.6 

44 24 

41 59 

53.7 

44 29 

42 3 

53.8 

44 33 


Ayana Kranti Ayana 

Bata +. Bala 

23° 27' 


O * 


53.9 

44 38 

57.1 

54.0 

44 43 

57.2 

54.1 

44 47 

57.3 

54.2 

44 52 

57.4 

54.3 

44 57 

57.5 

54.4 

45 1 

57.6 

54.5 

45 6 

57.7 

54.6 

45 11 

57.8 

54.7 

45 16 

57.9 

54.8 

45 20 . 

58.0 

54.9 

45 25 

58.1 

55.0 

45 30 

58.2 

55.1 

45 34 

58.3 

55.2 

45 39 

58.4 

55-3 

45 44 

58.5 

55.4 

45 48 

58.6 

55.5 

45 53 

58.7 

55.6 

45 58 

58.8 

55.7 

46 2 

58.9 

55.8 

46 7 

59.0 

55.9 

46 12 

59.1 

56.0 

46 16 

59.2 

56.1 

46 21' 

59.3 

56.2 

46 26 

59.4 

56.3 

46 31 

59.5 

56.4 

46 35 

59.6 

56.5 

46 40 

59.7 

56.6 

46 45 

59.8 

56.7 

46 49 

59.9 

56.8 

46 54 

60.0 

56.9 



57.0 




284 


Brihat Parasara Bora Sastra 


fait: *TR<J rTfars^R^' **J?Rll$e;li 

18. MOTIONAL STRENGTH FOR SUN AND MOON : 
The Sun’s Cheshta Bala (or motional strength) will correspond 
to his Ayana Bala. The Moon's Paksha Bala will itself be her 
Cheshta Bala. 

Notes : For the Sun and the Moon, there is no separate 
method of Cheshta Bala computation. The Sun’s Ayana Bala will 
itself be his Cheshta Bala (or motional strength) while the Moon’s 
Paksha Bala is her Cheshta Bala. For the other 5 planets, the 
method is described in slokas 24-25 infra. 

•CT'Tf’PTKtfH ?fzn \ 

19. DRIG BALA (ASPECTUAL STRENGTH) : Reduce 
one fourth of the Drishti Pinda if a planet has malefic aspects on 
it and add a fourth if it is aspected by a benefic. Super add the 
entire aspect of Mercury and Jupiter to get the net strength of a 
planet. 

3T*T eTIT&tTT'tTT § t 

20. PLANETARY WAR : Should there be a war between 
the starry planets (i.e. between 2 planets from Mars to Saturn, in 
a given horoscope), the difference between the Shadbalas of the 
two should be added to the victor’s shadbala and deducted from 
the Shadbala of the vanquished. 

TTRI HBT I 

*TT StTSfr^TT %frT ^TOimcjQT *lfall^H 

ttfarfWiMew i 

qTd t 

21-23 PLANETARY MOTIONS (MARS TO SATURN) ; 
Eight kinds of motions are attributed to planets. These are Vakra 



285 


Chapter 27 

(retrogression), Anuvakra (entering the previous sign in retro- 
grade motion), Vikala (devoid of Motion or in stationary posit- 
ion), Manda (somewhat slower motion than usual), Mandatara 
(slower than the previous mentioned motion), Sama (somewhat 
increasing in motion as against Manda), Chara (faster than Sama) 
and Atichara (entering next sign in accelerated motion). The 
strengths allotted due to such 8 motions are : 60, 30, 15, 30, 15, 
7.5, 45 and 30. 

qyinfsw SgcT IRYII 

ITFftfief faftfWT fofa \ 

24-25 MOTIONAL STRENGTH FOR MARS ETC. : Add • 
together the mean and true longitudes of a planet and divide the 
ame by two. Reduces this sum from the Seeghrocha (or apogee) 
of the planet. The resultant product will indicate the Cheshta 
Kendra (or Seeghra kendra) of the planet from 12 signs. The Rasi, 
degrees and minutes so arrived be converted into degrees, minutes 
etc. and divided by 3 which will denote the motional strength of 
the planet. Thus there are six sources of strength called Sthaana 
Bala Digbala, Kaalabala, Drigbala, Cheshta Bala and Naisargika 
Bala. 

Notes : Take the average between a planet’s mean longi- 
tude and true longitude (i. e. Mars to Saturn). Deduct this 
product from its Seeghrocha which will be its Cheshta Kendra. 
If this exceeds 180 degrees deduct again from 360 degrees. 
Divide the Cheshta Kendra by 3 which will be the motional 
strength of the planet. 

sitanra sro i 

n ^ \ \\ 

e « ' 

SA ^ V 6 ' 



286 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


tf^rcrjjcT Far^^fagrmffsrwiT i 

Sfa RT^vT TW HTRFtj r? g*)fRT»T u^tu 

26-29 BHAVA BALAS ; Thus I explained about the 
planetary strengths. Deduct the 7th house (longitude of descen- 
dant) from the bhava if the bhava happens to be in Virgo, 
Gemini, Libra, Aquarius or the first half of Sagittarius, if Aries, 
Taurus, Leo or first half of Capricorn or the second half of 
Sagittarius happen to be the bhava, deduct the 4th house (Nadir) 
from it. Should the Bhava be in Cancer or in Scorpio deduct 
from it the ascendant. And deduct the 10th house (meridian) 
from the bhava happening to fall in Capricorn second half or 
Pisces. Convert the product so obtained (in the respective case) 
into degrees etc. and divide by 3 to get the strength of the bhava. 
If the balance in the process of deducting the Nadir, Meridian, 
ascendant or descendant exceeds 6 signs, deduct it again from 12 
signs before converting into degrees and dividing by 3. The 
product after division should be increased by a fourth if the 
bhava in question has a benefic aspect on it. And a malefic’s 
aspect will entail one fourth reduction. If Jupiter or Mercury 
aspect a bhava, add that planet’s aspectual strength also. And 
then SLperadd the strength acquired by the lord of that Bhava. 
This will be the net strength of that Bhava. 

<9 « OS 

gflJcTH H^oU 

4 S 

tftqfoit ms: msmmgmites: i 

faf?T «TTSfa<T 

30-31 SPECIAL RULES . The bhavas occupied by Jupiter 
and Mercury will each get an addition of 1 rupa while each of 
the bhava occupied by Saturn, Mars and the Sun suffer 1 rupa 
reduction. 15 virupas will have to be added to the bhavas fall- 
ing in Seershodaya Rasis if birth happens to be in day time, to 
the bhavas falling in dual (or common) Rasis if birth happens to 
be in twilight and to the bhavas falling in Prishtodaya Rasis if 
birth be in night. 

TOUT T>< Pfl'iJcC | 

ffsrms: gnfWm s?wgfmTT: tort u 3^11 



287 


Chapter 27 

ct?t gqfaq) *mr: » 

arfej^r ^JT^fZTR ^t=f qqqfaq> feq ! n^n 

32-33. SHADBALA REQUIREMENTS : 390, 3*0, 300, 
42C, 390, 330 and 300 Virupas are the Shadbala Pindas needed 
for the Sun etc. (upto Saturn) to be considered strong. If the 
strength exceeds, the planet is deemed to be very strong. 

Notes : The minimum Shadbala requirements of the 
planets are as under ; 

The Sun — 6.5 Rupas 
The Moon— 6.0 Rupas 
Mars — 5.0 Rupas 
Mercury = 7.0 Rupas 
Jupiter = 6.5 Rupas 
Venus — 5.5 Rupas 
Saturn = 5.0 Rapas 

If a planet has the required shadbala, it will prove favour- 
able to the native by virtue of its strength. However, Saturn’s 
exterme strength will give long life as well as miseries. 

STOTcnfa ^T-qfttgSJFPTT: 

?rqq 11^ nil 

qeqrfTVrq qta-qr*q>; qutjjq spqrq i 

! Il^ll 

34-36. Jupiter, Mercury and the Sun are strong if each of 
their Sthaana Bala, Digbala, Kaalabala, Cheshta Bala and Ayana 
Bala are respectively 165, 35, 50, 112 and 30 Virupas. The same 
required for the Moon and Venus are 133, 50, 30, 100 and 4a 
For Mars and Saturn these are 96, 30, 40, 67 and 20. 

Notes ; Even if the Shadbala Pinda is short of the sums 
stipulated in the previous two slokas, certain minimum require- 
ments of the constituent strengths will make the planet consider- 
ably favourable. For this purpose, Jupiter, Mercury and the Sun 


288 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


can be put in ‘A’ group. The Moon and Venus form ‘B’ group 
while Mars and Saturn ‘C’ group. The constituent Balas in 
Virupas that should be minimum are : 


Type 

Group ‘A' 

Group ‘B’ 

Group ‘C’ 

Sthaanabala 

165 

133 

96 

DigbaLa 

35 

50 

30 

Kaalabala 

50 

30 

40 

Cheshtabala 

112 

100 

67 

Ayanabala 

30 

40 

20 

Ayanabala 

has been separately shown 

above. It is 


normally a practice to include Ayana Bala in the Xaalabala it- 
self. In that case, Ayanabala should be separately seen apart 
from seeing the rest of the Kaalabala, as per the requirements 
denoted above. 

tjj fie^T 1 I 

^ u^vsn 

l 

tftM&Sltfcj 5H?tf?TcTT II^cII 

37-38. BHA VA EFFECTS : 0 Brahmin, thus the various 
sources of strengths be gathered together and effects declared. 
Whatever yogas or effects have been stated with respect to a 
bhava will come to pass through the strongest planet, 

nfriita srrWt a: i 

TO 1 Hebert STfa * tffTOmfoll 

39-40. ELIGIBILITY TO ISSUE FRUITFUL PREDICT- 
IONS : O Maitreya, the words of one who has achieved skill in 
mathematics, one who has put in industrious efforts in the 
branch of grammar, one who has knowledge of justice, one who 
is intelligent, one who has knowledge of geography, space and 
time, one who has conquered his senses, one who is skilfully 
logical (in estimation) and one who is favourable to astrology, 
will doubtless be truthful. 



STWWTsmir: II ^cll 

Chapter 28 

Ishta And Kashta Balas 

3r«T g y^ii l 

n^avnvd yq-c'^f^d u^ii 

1. Now I narrate the benefic and evil tendencies of the 
planets based on which the Dasa effects — good or bad— can be 
decided. 

FiKKtft y?r i 

2. EXALTATION RAYS : Deduct Le planet’s debilita- 
tion point from its actual position. If the sum exceeds 6 sings, 
deduct from 12 signs. The said sum should then be increased 
by I Rasi. The degrees etc. be multiplied by 2 which when 
considered along with Rasis will indicate the Uchcha Rasmi of 
the planet. 

?refVtf » 

faiRtaf *uit irii 

«rcST%7JT T^TT? 1 ? Tmfs% Ill'll 

3-4. CHESHTA RASMI : Cheshta Rasmis are to be cal- 
culated from Cheshta Kendra similar to Uchcha Rasmi computa- 
tions. The Cheshta Kendras of planets from Mars to Saturn 
have already been explained. Add 3 Rasis to Sayana Sun (i.e. 
Sun with Ayanamsa), which will be the Cheshta Kendra for the 
Sun. The sidereal longitude of the Sun should be deducted 
from the Moon to get the Moon’s Cheshta Kendra. If the 
Cheshta Kendra (for any planet) is in excess of 6 signs, deduct it 
from 12 signs. Add 1 sign and multiply the degrees etc. by 2 
which will indicate the Cheshta Rasmi of the planet. 



290 


Brihat Parasara.Hora Sastra 


f^slsqrawn??qrq qraKtuitti 

5. BENEFICIAL AND MALEEIC RAYS : Add the 

Uchcha Rasmis and Cheshta Rasmis together and divide by two. 
The result will be auspicious rays (Subha Rasmis). Deduct 
from 8 the Subha Rasmis to obtain inauspicious rays (or 
Asubha Rasmis). 

«^TR 5 q>5f^?T I 

BTOfaWTOI wnr <Tcqft7cI*xqcTq ll^ll 

6. ISHTA AND KASHTA (BENEFIC AND MALEFIC 
TENDENCIES) : Reduce 1 from each of Cheshta Rasmi and 
Uchcha Rasmi. Then multiply the products by 10 and add 
together. Half of the sum will represent the Ishta Phala (benefic 
tendency) of the planet. Reduce Ishta Phala from 60 to obtain 
the planet’s Kashta Phala (or malefic tendency). 

^HTTcf ||V3|t 

't «> s 

TT*n: 1 

3^ ^ VPtt 9 <T^lic;M 

qfe?r: Tf^Rf TOsjq * qmj* n| \ 

wq faa I trrwrs^T?m utn 

. 7-9. ISHTA KASHTA SAPTAVARGAJA PHALA : 60, 

45, 30, 22, 15, 8,4, 2 and 0 are the Subhankas (or Subha Griha 
Pankthis or benefic points) due to a planet’s placement respecti- 
vely in exaltation, Moolatrikona, own sign, extreme friend’s 
sign, friend’s sign, equal’s sign, enemy’s sign, bitter enemy’s sign 
and debilitation sign. If Subhanka is deducted from 60, 
Asubhanka (or Asubha Pankthi or inauspicious points) will 
emerge. O Brahmin, in other Vargas, these are halved. 

qrciTfl qq 5TcT: 7TTT 1 

* ^ 

3TTjq fqq fa?Nfqf?T 

10. A planet is considered auspicious in the first five of the 
said places. In the sixth place it is equal, i.e. neither good nor 
bad. And in the other three places it is inauspicious. 



Chapter 28 291 

cnit: w4 stem** 

$T^sfa% *T*T rsrarfcsfsrfc \ 

*m <b% *tr>t** ?i«n n uqwi frrluwt 

11-12. NATURE OF EFFECTS DUE TO DIGBALA 
ETC : The directional strength of planet is itself representative 
of the effects due to the direction and Dinabala itself is indicat- 
ive of effects due to day. Whatever quantum of Digbala etc. are 
obtained by a planet will be the extent of auspicious effects 
acquirable on account of that strength. Deducting those figures 
from 60, the extent of inauspiciousness is known. If auspicious- 
ness is more in the case of planet’s strength, the Dasa and 
Bhavas related to that planet will be auspicious; And these are 
converse if inauspiciousness is predominant. 

srt: qirfa: i 

*j*TTf% f ii^ii 

jT'fl , m<T>vrrwri ^ i 

13-14. SAPTAVARGAJA BALA AND ISHTA KASHTA 
( Continued ) : The various strengths (i.e. the other 6 vargas 
vide slokas 7-9 supra) be multiplied by the respective planet’s 
shadbala pinda which will indicate the auspiciousness of the 
varga concerned. Auspicious or inauspicious aspect will be 
obtained by multiplying the Subha or Asubha Pankthi. Similarly 
auspicious or inauspicious effects will be known by multiplying 
the auspicious or inauspicious strength by the respective 
Pankthi. 

?n*HT * ^ sw \ 

rrcft nun 

Suitor rWTTl 

!155llT|vWfir*T ^ SlW I * I I 

qf stitot 4TWW wfci n?v»« 



292 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


0TBS3PTOW f<sn% * VT^SfiWT I 

*1% TOTRfsq^: fwil^ll 

gqWTfa fo UTaFTTO: snftfaci: I 

rfctf*TT% ^ <T«m% erapf! WM4M V$R 11$ $.11 

tfifrsti f^Rw^rrcrr «b^*j i 

?P#J*TRRT 9>H fttj WTTSSpTTT l|^o|| 

15-20. EFFECTS OF A BHAV A : The strength of a Bhava 
and its lord have already been explained. The actual effects 
will be a combination of bhava strength and its lord’s strength. 
If there is a benefic in the bhava add the same to the auspicious 
effects and deduct from inauspicious effects, which will denote 
the net auspicious or inauspicious effects. If a malefic is in the 
bhava, reverse the process, i.e. add inauspicious effects and 
deduct auspicious effects. Similarly aspects and strengths. If a 
planet is exalted or with such a dignity, add auspicious effects 
and reduce inauspicious effects. For debilitation etc. it is con- 
verse. In Ashtaka Varga, add Bindus (auspicious points) and 
deduct Karanas (inauspicious points). If a bhava extends to two 
Rasis, the rectification will be done as per both the lords. In 
that case whichever Rasi has more Bindus that Rasi will yield 
more favourable results concerning that Bhava. If both the 
Rasis have more auspicious Bindus take the average. Thus the 
auspicious and inauspicious effects of a bhava be understood. 


3P*q3TSUm: IRfcll 

Chapter 29 

Bhava Padas 

dfavta'bsr srnj sit? n$n 

affW TTg fiW TNft eiRFU <Rg«rihl3lt 



Chapter 29 453 

*W*T*T<T fr*l ! I 

fliJtTm* ?TS ^OT *?«rN faf: 11311 

1-3. METHOD OF PAD A («k) CALCULATIONS : O 
Brahmin, I shall now tell you about the Padas (or Arudhas) 
for bhavas and planets as well, as laid down by the earlier 
great sages. The Pada of the ascendant will correspond to the 
sign arrived at by counting so many signs from the ascendant 
lord as he is away from the ascendant. Similarly Padas for other 
nouses be known through their lords. The word “Pada” exclu- 
sively denotes the Pada for ascendant (or Lagna Pada). 

Notes : Maharshi Jaimini (author of Poorva Mimamsa) 
extensively dealt with this system of astrology as given in ch. 29- 
33 hereof. Though sage Parasara has originally sown seeds, later 
on Jaimini delved deep and located many pearls out of his great 
wisdom and intuition. Thus it has become to be known more 
by the name Jaimini astrology rather than Parasari. 

To work out the Padas etc. enunciated in these chapters, 
we shall consider a nativity as indicated below calling it the 
standard nativity. 

Date of birth : May 21, 1944 at 1902 hrs (War time) 
79E 20 13 N40 



Merc 

Ven 

Moon 

Sun 

Sat 


Rasi 

Mars 

Rahu 

Jup 




Ascdt 

0°48'34" 









Brihat Parasara flora Sastra 


2$4 


Sun 

Ketu 




Jup 

Navamsa 

Ascdt 


Mars 

Merc 

Moon 

Ven 


Sat 

Rahu 


Longitudes 


Planet 

Deg 

Min 

Sec 

The Sun 

37 

12 

18 

The Moon 

27 

35 

46 

Man 

96 

18 

46 

Mercury 

14 

54 

13 

Jupiter 

116 

7 

13 

Venus 

27 

17 

50 

Saturn 

63 

9 

41 

Rahu 

97 

37 

6 

Ketu 

277 

37 

6 


Chapter 29 


295 


In calculating the Arudhas for the various houses, we have 
to proceed as under. First of all we understand the 12 Arudhas 
thus : 


1 . Lagna Pada (or simply Pada) 

2. Dhana Pada 

3. Vikrama (Bhratru) Pada 

4. Matru (Sukha) Pada 

5. Mantra or Putra Pada 

6. Roga or Satru Pada 

7. Dara Pada (Kalatra Pada) 

8. Marana Pada 

9. Pitru Pada 

10. Karma Pada 

11. Labha Pada 

12. Vyaya Pada 


: Arudha of 
: Arudha of 
: Arudha of 
: Arudha of 
: Arudha of 
: Arudha of 
: Arudha of 
: Arudha of 
: Arudha of 
: Arudha of 
: Arudha of 
: Arudha of 


1st house. 
2nd house. 
3rd house. 
4th house. 
5th house. 
6th house. 
7th bouse. 
8th house. 
9th house. 
10th house, 
ltth house. 
12th house. 


In calculating the Arudha Pada for a house, note the 
number of signs its lord moved away from that particular sign. 
Count so many signs from the lord in question. The sign so 
arrived will be the Arudha for the sign under consideration. 

In the standard nativity, Scorpio is the ascendant and its 
lord Mars is 9 signs away from the ascendant and is in Cancer. 


I 

VII 




X 

VIII 

II 

Arudha Chart 

VI 

KII 

IX 



XI 

III 

V 

IV 








Brihat Par osar a ft or a SaStrd 

Hence we count 9 signs from Cancer and get Pisces. Pisces is thus 
the Arudha or Pada of the ascendant (i.e. Lagna Pada). Now see 
the Arudha chart for the said nativity on p. 295. (The figures 

MPad2 j“ R ° man nUmbers denotc the Bhava for which it stands 

In the said chart, for example, Scorpio has the Mantra- 
rudha (5th), Vikramarudha (3rd) and Labharudha (Ilth). Sagitta- 
rius has none. Thus, one sign may contain more than one Arudha 
while another sign may not be an Arudha at all. 


aft** qnjliYH 

*WI | 

^ finN ||<^|) 

4-5. SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS : The same house or the 
7th from it does not become its Pada. When the Pada falls in 
the same house, the 10th therefrom be treated as its Pada. 
Similarly when the 7th becomes the Pada of a house, the 4th 
from the original house in question be treated as its Pada. If the 
ruler of a bhava be in the 4th from the bhava, then the very 
house occupied be noted as the Pada. 3 

Notes : In these two slokas, exceptions to the earlier rules 
in calculating Arudhas are outlined. These are : 

1. If the lord of a house is in that very house, then the 
Pada for the time being falls in that house itself. In that case 
as per the exception, we have to count ten signs to get the actual 
Pada. For example, Sagittarius is certain Bhava having Jupiter 
therein, with the Pada having ‘fallen’ in Sagittarius itself 
Instead of treating Sagittarius as the Arudha, we count 10 signs 
from Sagittarius and reach Virgo. Thus Virgo is the Pada for 
Jupiter having been in Sagittarius. 


2. If the lord of bhava is in its opposite house, then for the 
time being the 7th itself becomes Arudha. Instead of treating 
that 7th house as Pada Arudha, we have to count 10 signs from 
the said 7th house which will indicate the 4th from the original 
Bhava in question as Arudha. For example, Aquarius is the 
ascendant having Saturn in the 7th in Leo. Counting 10 signs 
from Leo, we reach Taurus. Hence Taurus is the Arudha for 
Aquanus ascendant having Saturn in Leo. 



Chapter 29 297 

* 3. If the lord of a bhava is in the 4th from the bhava, no 

counting is required. The house occupied by the lord itself (i.e, 
4th from the bhava) is the Arudha. For example, Leo ascen- 
dant having the Sun is the 4th sign in Scorpio gets Scorpio itself 
as Arudha Lagna. 

TTf*T WKN 

qtf fa* | HrT^TflT ||\3|t 

6-7. PADAS FOR PLANTES : Note the position of a 
planet and see how many signs away is its own sign with refe- 
rence to its position. Count so many sign from the said own 
sign and the resultant sign will become the Arudha of the 
planets. If a planet owns two Rasis or if a Rasi is owned by two 
planets, consider the stronger and declare effects accordingly. 

Notes : Here we are taught of what can be called as 
Graharudha or planet’s Arudha. From a perusal of the above 
verses, we can take it to mean that there are 9 planetary 
Arudhas. Since the sage uses “Rasi owned by two planets” he 
obviously hints at co-rulership of Rahu and Ketu. Rahu is a 
co-ruler of Aquarius while Ketu shares ownership of Scorpio 
( Vide sloka 157, ch, 46 infra). 

Assume that the Sun is in Capricorn. Counting from Capri- 
corn to Leo we get 8 signs. Again from Leo we count 8 signs 
and reach Pisces which is the Arudha for the Sun. The excep- 
tions stated for Bhavarudhas do not apply to Graharudhas. 

In case of other 5 planets (Mars to Saturn) each owns two 
signs. Then the counting of planet’s Arudha in such a case is 
with reference to the stronger of the two signs. For deciding 
strengths of signs and planets one has to use his wise judgement 
apart from consulting hints given in ch. 46. However, we do not 
have any authentic information available as to how to use Graha- 
rudhas. Either we have to work on experience or keep silent on 
this issue. The literature available on Jaimini system being 
limited nothing more can be said about this. 



298 


Brihat Parasara flora Sastrd 

3T*m5 qsmfsr?*? m forf**rc fe* I 

f |e; it 

. ^ItTFcHTT ^tgCtHTfaRT: I 

g^Tnq sjqrf^r: 'TTTtfts^T nen 

tRfT SffJT ^VjyfHJnf^T^T: I 
^|OT 3fT*T^ ?TT?Tt SfOT * *JWf»m:U$oH 
'T^TF^IVTtJ^ ITFq q^f^cT H^?TT U^T: | 

thtt st Ti^r§ctr> <sn?ft ^ htot:ii??u 

8-11. PAD A AND FINANCE (upto stoics 15) : O Brahmin, 

I now tell you of some effects of planets based on Pada. If the 

1 1th from Lagna Pada is occupied oraspected by a planet the 
native will be happy and rich; wealth will come through virtuous 
means if a benefic is related as above. A malefic will confer 
wealth through questionable means. If there be both a benefic 
and a malefic, it will be through both means. If the planet in' 
question (i.e. the one so related to 11th from Lagna Pada) be in 
exaltation or in own sign etc., there will be plenty of gains and 
plenty of happiness. 

srnr^ fssrcrat? Iii^h 

12. O excellent of the Brahmins, if the 12th from Lagna 
Pada is unaspected as the 11th from Lagna Pada is being aspect- 
ed by a planet, then the gains will be uninterrupted. 

%$rj i 

^rfq toifq sr|jq*mmn% n??u 
fsrq ! fT5n<fs*q^TJT^ \ 

fTH’HFqrfMfa It f VII 
STItT^q ?TFW^q ftfefl f fr OyUH I 
snssi A* 

13-15. O Brahmin, the quantum of gains will correspond 
to the number of planets in or aspecting the 1 1th from Lagna 



Chapter 29 


299 


’ Pada. If there is Argala for the said 1 1 th there will be more 
gains while a benetic Argala will bring still more gains. If the 
said benefic causing Argala be in his exaltation, the gains will be 
still higher. If the said 11th is aspected by a benefic from the 
ascendant* the 9th etc. gains will increase in the ascending order. 
In all these cases, the 12th from Pada be simultaneously free 
from malefic association. 

Notes : From the Arudha ascendant, the 11th house is 
important in deciding the financial gains to be enjoyed by the 
native. Simultaneously the 12th from Arudha Lagna should be 
free from malefic relationship. If the planet related to the 11th 
from Lagnarudha is stronger than the one related to 12th from 
Lagnarud ha, even then there will be gains. If more are well 
related to the 11th gains will be still more. 

For Argala, see ch. 31 infra 

A benefic placed in the ascendant aspecting the 1 1th from 
Arudha Lagna will be still beneficial. If the aspect is from the 
9th from Lagna.it will confer much more gains. The 11th 
Arudha aspected by a favourable planet will also confer abundant 
gains. In the standard nativity, Jupiter is in the 9th in exaltation 
and aspects the 1 1 th house from Arudha Lagna and also the 
11th Arudha (i e. Labharudha). Hence in Jupiter’s Dasa, the 
native can hope for abundant financial and professional gains. 

aiqaigcdfiFtN fawftammrr . 

gJTltfoT jpunfa I 

ftp* fasFFSf virFftsfa CTTOhllUll' 

16-17. PADA AND FINANCIAL LOSSES (upto sloka 21) : 
If the 12th from Lagna Pada is aspected by conjunct both benefics 
and malefics, there will be abundant earnings but plenty of 
expenses. The benefic will cause through fair means, malefic 
through unfair means and mixed planets through both fair and 
unfair means. 

Notes : In the standard nativity, the 12th house from 
Arudhapada is aspected by Mars (8th aspect). Hence the expenses 
are equally high. 



300 Hrihat Parasara Horn Sastra 

awt ^r^ara;*<sr*n firifonuteu 

18. If the 12th from Lagna Pa da is conjunct the Sun, 
Venus and Rahu, there will be loss of wealth through the king. 
The Moon aspecting (the said trio in the said house) will speci- 
fically cause more such losses. 

qtrrcspi suit afrit 

f*Tc*T 'TFRST U££ll 

19. If Mercury is in the 12th from the Lagna Pada and be 
with or aspected by benefic similarly there will be expenses 
through paternal relatives. A malefic so related to the said 
Mercury will cause loss of wealth through disputes. 

<rciq: grraur aftfw* t 

*T7RS1R sqjft %3I¥r^nT ! U^oU 

20. O Brahmin, if Jupiter is in the 12th from Lagna Pada, 
aspected by others, the expenses will be through taxes and on 
one’s own. 

stojt tmgita *ig?h 

fa* ! 

21. O Brahmin, if Saturn is in the 12th from the Lagna 
Pada along with Mars and is aspected by others, the expenses 
will be through one’s co-born. 

arrwr^ s mi ^ star; «sfaar n*n \ 

fTmq>nvrn=ci«n 113311 

22. GAINFUL SOURCES .- Whatever sources of expenses 
are indicated above with reference to the 1 2th from Lagna Pada, 
gains through similar sources will occur if the llth house so 
features with reference to Lagna Pada. 

mre gi a *r«T*r sf^r: 

ffa a ggn g ? ft ftrfsRT *r 113311 



Chapter 29 


301 


23. THE 7TH HOUSE FROM PAD A (upto slaka 27) : If 
Rahu or Keiu is placed in the 7th from Lagna Pada, the native 
will be troubled by stomachial disorders, or by fire. 

24. Should there be Ketu in the 7lh from the Lagna Pada 
and be with aspect to or be conjunct another malefic, the native 
will be adventurous, will have (prematurely) grey hair and big 
male organ. 

qqrri n^-*Tq:-fq*TT*7T: t 

« « o 

qqt srqqqqftsfi? m: 

25. Should one, two or all the three of Jupiter, Venus and 
the Moon be in the 7th from Lagna Pada, the native will be very . 
wealthy. 

WZ: Wfft qrsc q^ W: qqirT I 

*frnq tftefq fg^r ! \\\%\\ 

26. Whether a benefic or a malefic if be exalted in the 7tb 
from Lagna Pada, the native will be affluent, and be famous. 

ifr cftm: *qr% qqrcqf qrfq?n q*n i 

^ q>lT %effasfq HS»T %5T 1 ||^\s|| 

27. O Brahmin, these yogas as narrated by me with refer- 
ence to the 7th from the Lagna Pada be also considered from 
the 2nd of Lagna Pada. 

3WIW> SI sftsft tfT*pfi qqtlTl 

28. Anyone of Mercury, Jupiter and Venus be exalted in 
the 2nd from Lagna Pada and be with strength, will make the 
subject rich. 

qfarcsr qt w>m% nfcn qqr \ 

& iftqi: 'nHt'iTtsfq from qttwfaim: 


302 


Brihat Parasara Hora Saslra 

29. The yogas so far stated by me with reference to Lagna 
Pada be similarly evaluated from Karakamsa as well. 

Notes : Karakamsa is the Navamsa occupied by Atma- 
karaka. For more information about Karakamsa, see ch. 39 
infra. Atmakaraka fete, are discussed in ch. 32. 

3n<*ST^ OTrTW fM ^ | 

trf? wt h faritr ^ernf% t^du 

3TT^STeT TRTl fj3T It 

«nfa fratra^tfgthi^tu 

3!iq^ trr fatRTfFTOFT I 

^ ^ x x 

*rt ^ f5T^>T% \ 

H^ll 

*T?T^?TTqt fcif ^ I 

»T%^r fa% if ffypr: \\^\\ 
vi^T'RT^ fasr I c mTfyrt i 

fa’nfa^ f%3fHl?nerTrfrmm\ u^xm 

for ! ftra: ufa | 

fasTrwtfF^'H eftqi TVHT HTlffm: ||^|| 

^ D'Hlffftjl fg^i ! i 

f^R?ST snrPPftT q>vf U^U 

30-37. GENERAL : If Mercury is in the 2nd from Arudha 
Lagna, the native will lord over the whole country. Venus in 
the 2nd from Lagna Pada will make one a poet or a speak er. 
the Dara Pada (i e. the Pada of the 7th house) falls in an angle 
or in a trine counted from the Lagna Pada or if the Lagna Pada 
and Dara Pada both have strong planets, the native will be rich 
and be famous in his country. If the Dara Pada falls in the 6th/ 
8th/J2th from the Lagna Pada, then the native will be popr.^If the 
Lagna Pada and the 7th therefrom or an angle/a trjne/an upachaya 
therefrom be occupied by a strong planet, there will be happiness 
between the husbahd and wife. If the Lagna Pada and Dara Pada 
are mutually angular or trinal, there will be amity between the 



Chapter 30 


303 

couple; if these be in mutually 6th/8th/12th, doubtlessly mutual 
enmity will crop up. O Brahmin, similarly mutual relationship 
or gain or loss through son et c, be known based on Lagna Pada 
and the relative Bhava Pada. fifthe Lagna Pada and Dara Pada 
are mutually angular or 3rd and 11th or trinal, the native will be 
a king ruling the earth. Similar deductions be made with refer- 
ence to mutual positions of Lagna Pada and Dhana Pada. 


STsfbmisum: ll^o || 

Chapter 30 

Upa Pada 

fg;3T ! 1 

M hst* n?ti 

fVsr ! sran \ 

stngqr?* cti^ u?it 

fliWWqq ?rr«T ?Tm jfhm i 

c w 

yjf 3TPTrT ! | 

a* qrq$ iivii 

SjgpJr^ *T ?R: 1 

^q^qiftq<T> q>tW 3RHI¥I«: 11*01 

tftRfara TR: ?qpT | 

qyq qq f| 11^11 

1-6. O Brahmin, now I tell you about Upa Pada, the 
auspiciousness of which will confer on thenative happiness from 
progeny, wife etc. The Pada of Lagna (i.e. Arudha Lagna) 
explained earlier is (of course) of prime importance. Upa pada is 
calculated for the bhava following the natal ascendant. This 
Upa Pada is also called Gauna Pada. O excellent of the Brahmins, 


304 


Brtfiat Parasara Hora Sa stra 

if Upa Pada is conjunct oraspected by a benefic planet, one will 
obtain full happiness from progeny and spouse. Should the 
Upa pada be in a malefic’s sign or is aspected by or is con- 
junct a malefic, one will become an ascetic and go with- 
out a wife. If (in the said circumstances) there be a benefic 
aspect (on upa pada or the related . malefic), or conjunction, 
deprival of spouse will not come to pass. In this case, the Sun if 
exalted or in a friendly sign, is not a malefic He is a malefic if 
in debilitation or in an enemy’s sign. 

Notes : Regarding Upa pada calculations, there are more 
than two views on the same sloka of Parasara or an identical 
Sutra from Jaimini. In our text, the word "3ppp:” (Anuchara) 
is used which denotes “the house following the ascendant at 
birth”. Some interpret this as the 5th from ascendant while I 
feel it should be the house succeeding the natal ascendant, which 
is the 12th house in normal sense. 

However, when we study other commentaries on Jaimini, 
(for example Chaukamba Hindi edition), we are taught that it is 
the 12th house from natal ascendant in the case of an. odd sign 
ascending and it is the 2nd house from natal ascendant in the 
case of an even sign ascending. This argument, meseeitis, is 
more sound. Accordingly the Pada for the 12th or the 2nd from 
Lagna is called Upa pada. In calculating Upa pada, the rules 
mentioned in verses 4 and 5 of the previous chapter be kept in 
mind. 

Now take the standard nativity. The ascendant is Scorpio, 
an even sign. Its 2nd house is Sagittarius whose lord Jupiter is 
8 signs away from Sagittarius. Hence we count 8 signs from 
Jupiter (in Cancer). We so reach Aquarius which is the Upa 
pada in this case. 

TT'q’J^Plf I 

wto ^ safari ^ 

STTrPPt ^ Hell 

ST fT«IT \ 

Wlfo 3TTT Util 



Chapter 30 


305 


fgcftq r fkv*t ^fin "" 

?pt farsc ! «g?r<g?rt nfcnudi 

fgrffrsfa I 

**3ut rTPTcft ^nfa jrt 5 ^-rfa *rgr H ? t u 
itr -j'I'mPi tft’nrVsrr h fRt ! I 

3TKRfa f?Rk> *Rr3ta *T II 

7-12. EFFECT OF 2ND FROM VP A PADA : If the 2nd 
from Upa pada is a benefic sign or is aspected by or conjunct with 
a benefic, the same good results (as for wife and sons) will come 
to pass. If there be a planet in the 2nd from Upa pada in 
debilitation sign/Amsa or be conjunct with a debilitated/malefic 
planet, there will be destruction of wife. If the said occupant 
be in exaltation sign/Navamsa or be aspected by another planet, 
there will be many charming and virtuous wives. O Brahmin, if 
Gemini happens to be the 2nd from Upa pada, then also there 
will be many wives. O excellent of the Brahmins, if the Upa- 
rudha or the 2nd therefrom be occupied by its own lord or 
if the said lord is in bis other own house, the death of wife will 
be at an advanced age. 

Notes : In the example case, the Upa pada is in Aquarius, 
a malefic’s sign and is powerfully aspected by malefic Mars and 
is without benefic’s aspect. However, the 2nd from Upa pada is 
well fortified as its lord Jupiter is exalted and aspects the said 
2nd house. Hence the native is happily married and endowed 
with progenic happiness. 

Loss of wife is to be expected if the 2nd from Upa pada is 
occupied by a debilitated planet, or the occupant of the said 2nd 
is in debilitation Navamsa, or is conjunct a debilitated planet (i.e. 
a banefic debilitated joining a malefic in the 2nd from Upa pada) 
or a benefic joining a malefic in said 2nd house. 

Taurus becoming the Upa pada is said to give many wives 
or plurality of marriage. 

Although there may be combinations for early loss of 
spouse if the 2nd lord from Uparudha (or Upapada) is in the 2nd 
itself or is in his other sign, it will considerably protect the native 
from such a calamity. And the spouse as a result will live udto 
an advanced age. 



306 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


RTT*i> facUT^ I 

gvTTtufa fosfal u mru: n^ii 

ft-M (f^l fTWt SU 5T I 

fawTi?ui?YU 

fgflfa UT 5J*m*SIUrTt fg^T ! \ 

*tww g?yft *rraf tout ^g^rrfN’cTT u\w 

13-15. WIFE FROM THE 2ND OF UPAPADA (upto 
sloka 22) : If a planet being constant indicator of wife (i.e. 7th 
lord or Yenus) is in own house, there will be loss of wife only at 
a later stage. If the lord ofUpapadaor the constant significa- 
tor of wife is in exaltation, the wife will be from a noble family; 
reverse will be the case, if he is debilitated. O Brahmin, if the 
2nd from Upapada is related to a benefic, the wife will be beauti- 
ful, fortunate and virtuous. 

^ TlfaTTjl fFUrft Ufa 1 
3TOUTOT5J fowRumt ’TOT* UT fjpT ! Il^ll 
16 Should Saturn and Rahu be in the 2nd from Upa pada, 
the native will lose his wife on account of calumny or through 
death. 

fatft) UT farfaTCTJil U*T ftUrft I 

TWaUTOuirTf fBFU U?\9U 

17. The native’s wife will be troubled by disorder of blood, 
leucorrhoea {JKT.) etc. if Yenus and Ketu are in the 2nd from 
Upapada. 

f faUrft fTU rTUTSfau^lUttUfTT I 

cfUfUT: 

18. Mercury with Ketu in the 2nd from Upapada will cause 
breakage of bones while Rahu, Saturn and the Sun will cause 
distress of bones. 

utmgwri^wrfuf fasftrre ! \ 

iihii 



Chapter 30 307 

5T*T ! I 

a^TfcTTTfO cT^ W%WTTftw IRo« 

cT=srr;?n^t> faq ! fareft im i 

1151 ^iprf^-^jq) ^rm? WWfNcTTU^n 
STfaTTj? Fffasra q^^^^nf^cTT \ 

%fer q^r aq farfNrarimii 

« c 

19-22. Mercury and Rahu in the 2nd from Upapada 
will give a stout-bodied wife. If the 2nd from Upapada 
happens to be a sign of Mercury and is tenanted by Mars and 
Saturn, the wife of the native will suffer from nasal disorders. 
Similarly a sign of Mars becoming the 2nd from Upapada and 
occupied by Mars and Saturn will cause nasal disorders to one’s 
wife. Jupiter and Saturn will, if be in th6 2nd from Upapada, 
cause disorders of ears/eyes to the wife. If Mercury and Mars 
be in the 2nd from Upapada other than own signs or if Rahu is 
with Jupiter in the 2nd from Upapada, the native’s wife will 
suffer from dental disorders. Saturn and Rahu together in a 
sign of Saturn which is the 2nd from Upapada will cause lamen- 
ess or windy disorders to the native’s wife. These evils will not 
come to pass if there be conjunction or aspect from a benefic 
(or from another bencfic in the case of affliction being caused by 
a bencfic himself). 

tft.Urt q) TTftl: ! \ 

r^^TrfipT: #TTcT fgqftrPTl U^ll 

23-23 O Brahmin, all these effects be deduced from the natal 
ascendant, Lagna Pada, the 7th from Upapada and the lords 
thereof. So say Narada and others. 

qqJrfqq! 5Tfqq?srqHTT qfttl^ll 
3rgw gw » 

fira: gq> 

^ Wik t ^V h gq> qhfsramnr I 

sr^fq^rqt fqq ! iir^U 


4 



308 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


Bifa p^h^sii 

^ TTJfft *§1*^ BT: I 

TJFqi'Tc*?: pit rreft *rra^ fffsrcrap ! u^u 

25-28. ABOUT SONS : If Saturn, the Moon and Mercury 
are together in the 9th from one of the said places (sloka 23), 
there will be no son at all while the Sun, Jupiter and Rahu so 
placed will give a number of sons. The Moon so placed will 
give a son while a mixture of planets will delay the obtainment of 
a son. The son caused by the conjunction of the Sun, Jupiter and 
Rahu above will be strong, valorous, greatly successful and 
will destroy enemies. If Mars and Saturn are in the said 9th, 
there will be no son, or a son will be obtained by adoption or 
brother’s son will come in adoption. In all these cases, odd 
signs will yield many sons while even sign will cause only a few. 


fasr ! i 

srFTJpftSB qwrat PTB: 

fpTOT»tTf?WR^RT i 

t^tf fsmf^Tf’^TPrf'T trVi farfvB^ii^oii 

29-30. MANY SONS AND MANY DAUGHTERS : O 
Brahmin, if Leo happens to be Upapada and is aspected by the 
Moon, there will be a limited number of children. Similarly 
Virgo will cause many daughters. 


^rfarTf? fanipW) tbib 'sngfe^TVT'fil i 

31. CO-BORN FROMJL4GN A PAP A (upto sloka 36) : 
Rahu and Saturn in th(T3r^ lthfrom LagnaVada will destroy 
the co-born of the native— in the 11th elder brothers/sisters and 
in the 3rd younger ones. 


BP FT BTTTt PprfjTcTFI P 1 
BTfa qt Tfd frBTPTET^fe^ 


Chapter 30 309 

32. If Venus is in the 3rd/llth from Lagna Pada, there would 
have been an abortion to the mother earlier. Same is the effect 
if Venus is in the 8th from natal ascendant, or from Lagnarudha. 


cm* i 

ddlq m wft frg ! n^n 

ami**: i 

*rft**Fm %3f ! 

>* * ® 

*5T fa* ! *t 

htt hhwi; mrrm *s*far rifaTi: i 

cTclftvimTf *£* U^H 

33-36. These are the'cffects, O Brahmin, as stated by vener- 
able sages for the 3rd and the 11th from Lagna Pada. Should 
the Moon, Jupiter, Mercury and Mars be in the 3rd/l Ith from 
the Lagna Pada, there will be many valorous co-bom. Should 
Saturn and Mars be in the 3rd/ II th from Lagna Pada or lend 
aspects thereto, younger and elder coborn will respectively be 
destroyed. If Saturn is alone in one of the said houses the native 
will be spared while the co-born will die. Ketu in the 3rd/ 1 1th 
will give abundant happiness from one’s sisters^ 

armsr* *bbht**^ spmfafa i 

sttcto: n^n 

37. OTHER MATTERS FROM LAGNA PADA (upto 
sloka 43) : If the 6th from Lagna Pada is occupied by a malefic 
and is bereft of conjunction/aspect of a benefic, the native will 
be a thief. 



\r 

i \) N 

38. If Rahu is in the 7th/12th from Lagna Pada or aspect 
one of the said houses, the native will be endowed with spiritual 
knowledge and be very fortunate. 




310 


Brihat Parasara Hora SastrQ 


* *pt% »HM 

39. If Mercury is in Lagna Pada, the native will lord over 
whole country while Jupiter will make him a knower of all 
things Venus in this context denotes a poct/speaker. 

Note : Also see verse 30, ch. 29. 




\ •* « ■ 

^mfaFft eOh Izrail fearer tm hr 6 u 


40. O excellent of the Bahmins, ifbenefics occupy the 2nd 
from the Upapada or from Lagna Pada, the native will be endo- 
wed with all kinds of wealth and be intelligent. 


t3TT¥ST^SRFJ>?T fg rT ta ’ ff g Rfc qfr I 

qiw^H^ =afVxt fafroa*nnrsn 

41. One will surely become a thief if the lord of the 2nd 
from Upapada is in the 2nd house (from the natal ascendant), 
and be with a malefic planet. 

frc tFa tpigT afr i re tt§\ first ! i 

5<sfi^R sm: nv^n 

^'T: fgtftarr \ 

<f*t f*r«r HsrTfajfonnr^u 

42-43. O Brahmin, if Rahu is in the 2nd from the lord of 
7th counted from Upapada, the native will have long and pro- 
jected teeth. Ketu so placed will cause stammering, and Saturn 
so placed will make one look ugly. Mixed will be the effects if 
there are mixed planets. 


TftNT CLA5SI CS (Text With English Translation) 

AVALI (2 Volumes set) -Kaly anavarma 
KET NIDHI - Rama Dayalu 

for Detailed list : RANJAN PUBLICATIONS 

l6, Ansar i Road, Darya G^nJ 
NE W DELHI*- 1 10002 (INDIA) 


srsTTS’faTfarro: 113(11 

Chapter 31 

Argala Or Planetary Intervention 

iqn^T I sftwT TRmstRT i 

sts$ ssstitort 5%!u?ii 

1. O illustrious sage, you have told of (some) auspicious 
effects related to Argala. Kindly narrate its conditions and 
effects. 

! wisst sm hht *3S i 

fm v miS STS3ST ^wdfrsqT IRH 

^ a% vim £st crassn 
ef^TSMU: ^21 rW^SSSUwT: I^D 

m^ssm 3T ^Ter^T A? ^T«TcTT: i 

<v 

<Tcftf sinrsmT: <TTOT S3f S^T ! TOWTi Imt 

£ 

ci’srrf'T *tn fasten ! i 

cmTf«T ^SSRRT 'K^t»nifFtcT fa§: II V. 1 1 
^TifvirmR 5rfg^U^tT I 

ST ^ wRiraiw sira^ %*t ! ii^ii 
qqttJ^T ST fgTf^T SttRT ¥S3T \ 

SSvfT rsfa'Sft'TRT q»f«R>SST MVSlI 

trfss> S^fmrfa fasHT fefaSTTSqST l 
fqgfafTT TjqivRT f^TOST ^ SSTSVTUe;H 
IR TfJfft ^T2R™T ’TT^TteR *RT 1 

a fm s fafa?w fs^ss ! »»€.»» 

2-9. FORMATION OF ARGALA : Maitreya, I explain 
below Argala to know definite effects of houses and planets. 
Planets in the 4th, 2nd and the 11th (from a house or a planet) 


312 


Brihat Parasara flora Sastra 

cause Argala while obstructors of the Argala will be those in the 
10th, 12th and 3rd. If the Argala causing planet is stronger than 
the obstructing one, the former will prevail. Or if the number 
of Argalas are more than the obstructing planets, then also the 
Argala will prevail. If there are 3 or more malefics in the 3rd, 
they will cause Vipareeta Argala (more effective intervention) 
which will also be harmless and be very favourable. The 5th is 
also an Argala place while the planet in the 9th will counteract 
such Argala. As the nodes have retrograde motions, the Argalas 
and obstructions be also counted accordingly in a reverse 
manner. Sages say that the Argala caused by one planet will yield 
limited effects, by two medium and more than two excellent 
effects. Argalas should be counted from a sign or a planet as the 
case may be. The Argala unobstructed will be fruitful while the 
one duly obstructed will go astray. The Argala effects will be 
derived in the Dasa periods of the Rasi or planet concerned. 

Notes : ‘Argala’ in Sanskrit is figuratively used to denote 
an impediment or obstruction. Arga'a is calculated from a 
house or from a planet. The 4th, 2nd and 11th house occupants 
cause Argala for a bhava or a planet. A planet in the 10th 
(from where the Argala is calculated) will obstruct the Argala 
coming from the 4th. Similarly a planet in 12th will counteract 
Argala emanating from the 2nd while the one in 1 1th will impede 
the Argala from the 3rd. Some suggest that the Argala obstruct- 
ion places are countable from the Argala places instead of from 
the origional place or planet. This is not logical and a glance 
into Gochara Vedha (or obstructions during transits) will con- 
firm our findings. 

Just as we mark the Gocnara Vedhas along with benefic 
places, let us have the Argala and their obstructions as under : 

_4 2 115 

10 12 ~1 9 

Now see a hypothetical geniture given on the next page for 
an easy grasp of the Argala scheme. 

The ascendant in the hypothetical chart is Aries. Mars 
in the 4th, Sun and Mercury in the 2nd, and Jupiter in the 
1 1th cause Argala for the ascendant. (An Argala by benefic goes 
under the name ‘Subhargala’ and is deemed favourable. But we 
will confine ourselves to the extent of Argala in simple sense). 



Chapter 31 


313 


Ven 

Lagna 

Sun 

Merc 

Moon 

Jup 


Mars 

Sat 


Ketu 


c , 



The Argala of 4th house Marais countered by 10th house Saturn, 
that of Sun-Mercury in the 2nd by Venus in the 12th and that of 
Jupiter jn the 1 1th by Moon-Rabu in the 3rd. 

As far as the nodes are concerned these are calculated in a 
a reverse manner. From Rahu, the 2nd house counted in 
reverse order contains Sun- Mercury causing Argala to Rahu 
which is, however, obstructed by Mars in the 12th from Rahu 
(counted in reverse manner), similarly in all cases these be 
properly understood. 

By way of additional information, see Gochara Vcdha and 
benefic places for example for the Sun which will prove that our 
interpretation of Argala obstructed is correct : 

3 6 10 II 

9 12 4 5 

In the above figures, the upper ones denote the Sun’s 
favourable transits from the Moon and the lower ones denote 
obstructive forces in such houses from the ftoon. For example 
the Sun in the 3rd house from the Moon during transit will be 
favourable. But his favourable disposition will remain curbed 
if simultaneously the 9th from the Moon is transited by another 
planet (than of course Saturn, which is an exception). Again just 




314 


Brihat Parasara Bora Sastrd 


as there is Vipareetargala (or Argala itself eliminated), there is 
also Vipareeta Vedha. Vipareeta Vedha will prove auspicious 
eliminating the Vedha or obstruction. Suppose the benefic effects 
of the Sun in the 3rd from the Moon are being obstructed by 
another in the 9th from the Moon. The moment another planet 
joins the Sun in the 3rd from the Moon, the Vedha in the 9th 
from the Moon is off and the Sun in the 3rd proves auspicious 
till he has a companion. 

In the matter of Argala and its obstruction, also see the 
following verse. 

3pfat I 

fort fof! forPTfefff *trFT u^oll 

SPECIAL : The Argala caused by placement of a 
planet in the first one fourth part of the Rasi is countered by 
another placed in the 4th quarter of the respective obstructive 
Rasi. Similarly 2nd quarter’s Argala is eliminated by the 3rd 
quarter placement. 

Notes : We have learnt that an Argala, for example in the 
4th from a bhava or a planet is eliminated by another placed in 
the 10th house from the original planet/house. Here, the rules for 
obstruction of Argala are still narrowed down. Accordingly, 
there are only two circumstances of Argala getting nullified. 
Make the sign in which the Argala occurs into four quarters, (of 
V 30' each). Similarly the sign where obstruction occurs is also 
made in four quarters. If the Argala causing planet is in the first 
quarter (or first 7° 30' of the sign) while the obstructing planet is 
in the 4th quarter (i.e. 22° 30'— 30°), the obstruction indeed will 
come to pass. Otherwise not. So to say Argala will operate 
and the obstruction will fail. Likewise while the Argala planet 
is in the 2nd quarter of the sign (i.e. T 30' — 15°), the obstruction 
(planet in 15°— 22° 30' i.e. 3rd quarter) will combat the Argala. 

arrfa farrffim'Tvrr *r?r i 

cT«T 

jm <rra: sift \ 

fa safari cpH 



315 


Chapter 3 1 - 

ST1T% * 9^ fa* ! tFT9Tftra*TrrgcT: I 

«llTWW Hfftfafa: 1 1 ? * II 

*§«1 I 

<r^*r 5^5rir^q?0 u?*u 

cms farro, *jtt% 9 ^re %3T srg i 
3TCjir ^C?r gg Wlitoft ^cHIU^ 
TT^T^H <?TTO vTTWlf^: \ 

sttt^ ^ £9$ ft? ! ewftm snsn^i* ii^ii 

^TVfpfcnin 5 9§fa9 ’Jwn 

^ f»r«immf<T qfcwguttsu 

11-17. ARGALA EFFECTS : Should there be Argala for 
the Arudha Pada, for the natal ascendant, and for the 7th from 
both, the native will be famous and fortunate. A malefic or a 
bencfic causing unobstructed Argala aspecting the ascendant will 
make one famous. Similarly aspect on the 2nd house denotes 
acquisition of wealth and grains, 3rd house — happiness from co- 
born; the 4th house — residences, quadrupeds and relatives; the 
5th house— sons, grand sons and intelligence, the 6th house — fear 
from enemies; the 7th house— abundant wealth and marital 
happiness, the 8th house— difficulties, the 9th house— fortunes; 
the 10th house — royal honour; the 11th house — gains, and the 
12th house — expenses. The Argala by benefics will give various 
kinds of happiness, while bencfic effects will be meddling with 
malefic Argalas. Argala by both benefics and malefics will yield 
mixed results. 

Notes : For our own benefit we should understand the 
word ‘Argala’ in a suitable manner apart from the manner the 
Argala functions vis-a-vis Argala elimination. 

1. Argala can be caused by a benefie which is known as 
Subhargala. This Argala can be from a malefic also, so that 
the benefie causing Argala stalls the malefic role going against 
the native. If the benefic’s Argala is obstructed by another, 
then the benefie will become ineffective in Argala and the first- 
mentioned malefic will operate freely. 

2. Argala can be by a malefic with reference to a benefie 
so that the native does not enjoy good effects due to the benefie. 



316 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


This is Papargala (or malefic Argala) If the Argala is eliminated 
by a benefic or a malefic, then again the first mentioned bene- 
fic will be at liberty to act according to his own disposition. 

3. Argala is operable with reference to Bhavas (or houses) 
as well. 

Other relative rules need be well understood before appli- 
cation of the Argala. 

•» ® 

snara ttwt turoaT* arr* error: utmi 

18. Should there be (unobstructed) Argala for the ascen- 
dant, the 5th and 9th the native will doubtlessly become a king 
and fortunate. 


1133 II 


Chapter 32 

Planetary Karakatwas 
(Indications) 

arorcs tfpswtnfa i 

roarstifaretrerm \\\\\ 

«Nt: S> r^T^rT rRT I 

1-2. I now detail below Atmakarka etc. obtainable from 
among the 7 planets viz the Sun to Saturn. Some say that Rahu 
will become a Karka when there is a state of similarity in terms 
of longitude between (two) planets. Yet some say that the 8 
planets including Rahu will have to be considered irrespective of 
such a state . 

3 T!c*TT gqffttSSFTt fHlrfinit » 

3T?TCfP$ JmiftlWTeT rlcSF^ fafT?T[fen*T: II 3 II 



Chapter 32 ■** ' 

TTfaFTHTfsHFTTR RTj|l> ^SfTcWlTV. I 
aT^itfa^: *tn5c'rRFitsFWT*: imi 

*nirr?rt a ^ f? i 

fa^HRH^riZT^tTtrtT: *iHm: tsraf^cf: \\w 

^VIRiHTCU^S^FSIjqTPsRT: R>TTRT Wf^T \ 

soft fg^r! H^U 

q itr faita"* fgRWtW ! » 

qqr 5T%3[taftrT fRT^t ftprfsWTeWt H'sU 
qqqTrrffawrd * 5Ftr$nrtaR?i ^ \\*u 

3-8. ATMA KARAKA DEFINED : Among the planets 
from the Sun etc. whichever has traversed maximum number of 
degrees in a particular sign is called Atmakarka. If the degrees 
are identical, then the one with more minutes of arc and if the 
minutes are also identical then the one with higher seconds of 
arc will have to be considered. In that case, these three are 
called Anthyakaraka, Madhyakarka and Upakheta. In the case of 
Rahu, deduct his longitude in that particular sign from 30. The 
Karakas will have to be decided as above and as per further 
rules given below. Out of these Karakas, Atmakaraka is the 
most important and has a prime say on the native just as the 
king is the most famous among the men of his country and is the 
head of all affairs and is entitled to arrest and release men. 

qqT TFSTGRIT fast ! 1 

qqqf sffaifiTcfa N€.U 

3n?qTgqt5^nR 'RRfel RFTRRW 1 
sif?TR>^r ! II ? o II 

'^nq q^cqiviT *1 f? I 

rTqTSS?RRTR% ^ HTS^q fSJPWTRRR V* 

StgRivT ^ R£rT qqSRTFTRRt %3T ■ 1 

qmi s«» 

9-12. IMPORTANCE OF ATMAKARAKA : O Brahmin, 
just as the minister cannot go against the king, the other 
karakas, viz, Putrakaraka, Amatyakarka etc. cannot predominate 



318 


Brihat Parasara flora Sastra 


over Atmakaraka in the affairs of the native. If the Atmakarka 
is adverse, other karakas cannot give their bcnclic effects (fully). 
Similarly if Atmakaraka is favourable, other karakas cannot 
predominate with their malefic influences. 

'STTcTT ll^lt 

CN ft C ' ^ 

5T^T*T: ftmierctnSeqTO: gflWTTV l 

SfTT^R'Pt ^eft frfasf?: ! 1 

^TP^ITHT ^facTT: gTT U^X<< 

gcrenwr t 

vitqt ^trr ! » 

f^tn^^TrlFT £*T ?TmS7nf*r 11^11 

13-17. OTHER KARAKAS : The planet next to Atma- 
karaka in tcrm$ of longitude is called Amatyakaraka. Similarly 
follow one another in terms of longitude are Dhratru Karaka, 
Matru karaka, Pitru karaka, Putrakaraka, Gnati karaka and 
Streekaraka. These are chara karakas or inconstant significators. 
Some consider Matrukaraku and Putrakaraka as identical. If 
two planets have the same longitude, both become the same 
karaka in which case there will be a deficit of one karaka. In 
that circumstance, consider cons tant significator in the context 
of benelic/malefic influence for the concerned relative. 

Notes : A total of eight Chara karakas (inconstant or 
variable significators) are suggested as under : 

1. Atma Karaka (highest in longitude devoid of Rasis) 

2. Amatya Karaka (next to Atma Karaka in longitude) 

3. Bhratru Karaka (next to Amatya Karaka in longitude) 

4. Matru Karaka (next to Bhratru Karaka in longitude) 

5j Pitru Karaka (next to Matru Karaka in longitude) 

6. Putra Karaka (next to Pitru Karaka in longitude) 

7. Gnati Karaka (next to Pitru Karaka in longitude) 

8. Stree Karaka (next to Gnati Karaka in longitude) 



Chapter 32 


319 


The sage also suggests a school of thought which considers 
only seven significators, treating Matru Karaka and Putra 
Karaka as identical. This section thus counts only 7 Karakas. 

Since some advocate the use of 8 karakas, Rahu is also 
added to the seven planets from Sun to Saturn. The degrees 
traversed by Rahu should be counted from the end of the Rasi 
he is in. In the standard nativity (ch. 29) the following are the 
karaka planets. We take 8 Karkas into consideration. 


Karaka 

Planet 

Longitude 

Atmakaraka 

The Moon 

27° 35’ 46" 

Amatyakaraka 

Venus 

27 17 50 

Bhratru Karaka 

Jupiter 

26 7 13 

Matru Karaka 

Rahu 

' 22 22 54 

Pitru Karaka 

Mercury 

14 54 13 

Putra Karaka 

The Sun 

7 12 18 

Gnati Karaka 

Mars 

6 IS 46 

Dara Karaka- 

Saturn 

3 9 41 


If two planets have the same longitude identical to the 
second of arc, both of them will be qualified for that particular 
karakaatwa or significatorship. In that case, there will be 
shortage of planet for Dara Karakatwa. The constant indicator 
Venus should then be considered in the matter of marriage etc. 
as coming under Dara Karaka. 

3TU/U f**RTSRFI \ 

P tit gvf) 

SRt HTfTtpRap | 

gppftfJifq itf 6.11 

RFtIRT: I 

SptfTcT qfa:, gsr: SR^ITlcT 11^ o|( 
faRF^RlfaR: RcF) fq?R> rRT I 

■o 

fpRqrrcqrT UR? II 



320 


Brihal Parasara Hera Sastra 


18-21. CONSTANT SIGNIFICATORS : I narrate below 
the constant significators as related to the planets. The stronger 
among the Sun and Venus indicates the father while the stronger 
among the Moon and Mars indicates the mother. Mars denotes 
sister, brother-in-law, younger brother and mother. Mercury 
rules maternal relative while Jupiter indicates paternal grand- 
father. Husband and sons are respectively denoted by Venus 
and Saturn. From Ketu note wife, father, mother, parents-in- 
law and maternal grand father. These are constant significators. 

Notes : The above planetary significance can be tabulated 
as under : 


Planet 

Karakatwa 

Sun/Venus 

Stronger of the two indicates father, 

Moon/Mars 

Stronger of the two indicates mother. 

Mars 

Sister, brother-in-law, younger brother 


and mother. 

Mercury 

Maternal relatives 

Jupiter 

Paternal grand-father 

Venus 

Husband 

Saturn 

Sons 

Ketu 

Wife, father, mother, parents-in-law, 
maternal grand father. 


The above may be linked with the views expressed in verses 
occurring in the rest of this chapter. 

Tfor: gram u^n 

f 5TTrT tjeftaeft ^ *TTgvT: I 

g*t vrvre* 

22-24. HOUSES RELATED : These constant significances 
are derivable from the Bbavas counted from the said constant 



Chapter 32 M| 

signifiiatQrs. The 9th from the Sun denotes father, the 4th from 
the Moon mother, the 3rd from Mars brothers, the 6th from 
Mercury maternal unde, the 5th from Jupiter sons, the 7th 
from Venus wife and the 8th from Saturn death. The learned 
should consider all these and declare related effects accordingly. 
Notes : From these three verses, the constant Karakas 

emerge as under as normally discussed in standard literature on 
astrology : 

— father 

— mother 
brothers (and sisters) 

— maternal relatives 
Sons (and daughters) 

— wife (or husband) 
death (or longevity) 


The Sun 

The Moon 

Mars 

Mercury 

Jupiter 

Venus 

Saturn 


fawsf faq; 1 

T4T ^ ^ ^ ! i 

*PTfar fonquT ^ £ fpr^TT: u 

TO *ffg«w*qs^ stsfc t*nr«F tjqqa h^ii 
rft^T?qqsfq eft 3fTTT: fq?HTT% g bftt% \ 

*T>sfq TPd+iWt fqq ! srqqR gsr*r$?T: || ^ td 
TT3rar*rag?q?3ft mn *rcrf?T fffrqrrm i 

^ «R%wi: Urt q^' 11^ oil 

n r h 5 " 30 ' Y0GAKARAKAS (OR M VTUA L CO WORKERS ) • 
o Brahmin, I make below a passing reference to Yogakarakas 
(or mutual co-workers). Planets become Yogakarakas if they 
are m mutual angles identical with own signs, exaltation or 
friendly sign. In the 10th house, a planet will be ,£££^ 

‘ ^ h an ®* S,n \ ply (l e - not in friendly & C) in the ascen- 
t, the 4th and 7th do not become such yogakarakas, Even if 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


322 

they be placed in other houses but with such dignities as men- 
tioned shall become yogakarakas. With such planets, even a per- 
son of mean birth will become a king and be affluent. One bom 
of royal scion then will surely become a king. Thus the effects 
be declared considering the number of such planets and the 
order the native belongs to. 

Notes : Role 1 : If two planets are in mutual angles from 
the ascendant and be with dignities like exaltation, own sign or 
friendly sign, they act on behalf of each other and are known as 
Paraspara Karakas or co-workers. If one of the occupants is in 
the 10th house, the effects will still be pronounced. This is not 
to be considered from the Moon. 

Rule 2 : Even though the condition of mutual angularity 
is fulfilled, if the two planet9 do not enjoy one of the three 
dignities required, then there is no correlationship between 
them. 

Rule 3 : If two planets are mutually angular, both being 
endowed with dignities like exaltation, own sign or friendly sign, 
they will become coworkers although not placed in angles from 
the ascendant. 

These rules are exemplified in the undemoted charts, with 
reference to the said three rules. 






Sat 

CO 



Sun 


Ascdt 
















324 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


In chart 1 , Saturn and the the Sun are in mutual angles 
from the ascendant and in their own signs. Hence they will act 
as co-workers casting away mutual enmity. And Saturn although 
a dire malefic for Scorpio ascendant will become a Yogakaraka 
by virtue of mutual angularity with the Sun having fulfilled 
dignity requirements. 

In chart 2, Mars and the Sun are in mutual angles from 
the ascendant but do not posses any dignity like exaltation, or 
own house but are debilitated. Hence they will not act as Yoga 
giving planets. 

In chart 3, both Jupiter and Saturn are not angular from 
the ascendant but are invested with exaltation positions. Hence 
both the planets will mutually represent and beeome favourable 
in their Dasa periods. Also, see the chart of Sri Morarji Desai 
under sloka 110, ch. 24 in which Jupiter, Saturn and Mars play 
as mutual co-workers. 

It is specifically stated that the 1 0th house position for one 
of the planets in the circumstances becomes exceedingly favour- 
able. In the example chart 1, the Sun is in the 10th withParas- 
para Yogakaraka qualification in opposition to Saturn. Hence the 
Sun will exceedingly reveal beneficial results. Devoid of Saturn or 
any other co-worker, the Sun in the 1 0th will not be that power- 
ful. In other words, by virtue of co-workership, the Sun’s role 
gets immeasurably fortified. 

There are some schools of thought which do not consider 
coworkership as given in rule 3 above. 

JlrT ll^tH 

TJfFTTTTSTM'IdW rjrifa 5 

faSTRtalrT TtHT I 

a: ?UTcT Tftsfa 3WR* ll^ll 

$trf fm: 1 

srWt 'hn^kvt: 

31-34. HOUSE SIGNIFICANCE : I now narrate the 
significance of the houses. The first house denotes the soul (and 



325 


Chapter 32 


self), the 2nd house wife, the 11th preborn, the 3rd younger 
brothers/sisters, the 5th progeny and the 7th house wife. It is 
also said that a planet in the 5th becomes a karaka for wife. The 
significators of the house in order are : the Sun, Jupiter, Mars 
the Moon, Jupiter, Mars, Venus, Saturn, Jupiter. Mercury’ 
Jupiter and Saturn. 

. Notes : The karakatwas of each house are better signified 
id ch. 1 1 supra. The reader may consult the said chapter as well. 
Certain indications are additional in the present case. 

The significator of each bhava is enunciated in sloka 34 
above. For an easy grasp, these are : 

: 1st house (self, soul, constitution etc.) 

: 2nd house (family, finance, wife etc.) 

: 3rd house (courage, later-born etc ) 

: 4th house (mother) 

: 5th house (progeny) 

: 6th house (enemies) 

: 7th house (wife, conjugal bliss etc ) 

; 8th house (longevity) 

: 9th house (fortunes, religion etc.) 

: 10th house (honour) 

: 11th house (pre-born) 

: 12th house (expenditure) 


1 The Sun 

2. Jupiter 

3. Mars 

4. The Moon 

5. Jupiter 

6. Mars 

7. Venus 

8. Saturn 

9. Jupiter 

10. Mercury 

11. Jupiter 

12. Saturn 


Although we have stated the significators of the bhavas to 
be certain planets, each bhava signifies more than what is stated 
above. In that case the significator can also be different. For 

example, Jupiter is karaka for the 9th house which means that 

he is holding the portfolio of the native’s fortunes When the 
question of father arises from the 9th house, the significator then 

“ * he SUI L 0r (ake the ““ of 12th bouse. The significator is 
Saturn. The 12th house indicates final emancipation as well for 
which Saturn is not the indicator but Ketu. Thus a detailed 
approach to significance through bhavas is required. 


HRl: TTHTSmun 

vimgcfaft 113101 

^ tfftgr: ?TrTit=H(cit: ^TTWT I \ 



326 


Brihat Parasara Hdra Sastrii 

vnm «wtwt ^anwr: vfarstft 

|T*t Hnt'TOT*' 1 ! ^TJJiTtsfa 

35-37. O excellent of the Brahmins, after knowing the 
merits of the 1st house etc. the good and bad effects be declared. 
11th, 3rd, 8th, 6th, 2nd and 12th are malefic bhavas. Associat- 
ion with these houses will inflict evils. Angles and trines are 
auspicious bhavas, the association with which turns even evils 
into auspiciousness. 

Notes : The 6 bhavas viz. 11th, 3rd, 8th, 6th, 2nd and 
12th are adverse. A planet owning or occupying one of the said 
houses will become a functional malefic and hence adversary. 

The other 6 bhavas, viz. ascendant, 4th, 5th, 7th, 9th and 
10th are good houses. Planets associated with these houses will 
prove favourable although by nature evil or adverse. 

Also see ch. 34 for more information. 


s 113 


Chapter 33 

Effects Of Karakamsa 

ifaifa-TTfifa nnro* ii?ii 

1. o Brahmin, as laid down by Lord Brahma, I now tell 
you about the effects of Karakamsa identical with Aries etc. 

Notes : Karakamsa is the Navamsa occupied by the Atma 
Karaka planet. The Atmakaraka is the one who traversed the 
highest number of degrees etc. (devoid of Rasi), among the 8 
planets, from Sun to Rahu. These have been explained in the 
previous chapters. 

to* w n ra T fan ! fMfaa: n^u 



Chapter 33 

gscran «igwRT: i 

fa^qwrqi* trftqq jniYqTfotnfErcrov: \\\u 

wNr * srtiwHs: i 

*F?qfar rf^f qf^qnJTRqqtj uyii 

5?tNt * qfiriT srrH> q^T fafafa cfl qr: i 

q**sT m§: qqtar 11y.11 

SfT3T qiqR^rrT q*FI qt^iwfq I 

*NRm throrani^ir 

wq-qqcTT-qqrararrWt 'qq% i 

qt*qt*T W fRTqTfq-qrRV> m*&( 3 R: llvsll 

«• 

q>rm ^ncrV *jfa?roT»j fj^rw ! i 
sttshw ¥T*nfai£ q ?m qmHwhtcu 

2-8. KARAKAMSA VARIOUS SIGNS ; If Atmakaraka 
be in Aries Navamsa, there will be nuisance from rats and cats 
at all limes. A malefic joining will further increase the nuisance. 
Should Atmakaraka be in Taurus Navamsa, happiness from 
quadrupeds will result. Should he be in Gemini Navamsa, the 
native will be afflicted by itch etc. If he be in Cancer Navamsa, 
there will be fear from water etc. If he be in Leo Navamsa, 
fear will be from tiger etc. If he be in Virgo Navamsa, itch, 
corpulence, fire etc. will cause trouble while in Libra Navamsa, 
the Atmakaraka will make one a trader and skilful in making 
robes etc. Scorpio Navamsa holding the said planet will bring 
troubles from snakes etc. and also affliction to mother's breasts. 
There will be falls from height and conveyances etc. if it is 
Sagittarius Navamsa that is occupied by Atmakaraka. Capricorn 
Navamsa in this respect denotes gains from water-dwelling 
beings and conch, pearl, coral etc. If it is Aquarius Navamsa 
holding the said planet, the native will construct tanks etc. 
And in Pisces Navamsa the Atmakaraka will grant final 
emancipation. A benefle’s aspect will remove evils while that of 
a malefic will cause no good. 

tfr iT q. 1^ fqq ! oTRttf \ 

ami* FT3TT qqf?r fafcqfl; tte.ii 



328 


Brihat Parasara tiora Sastra 

feff ^ut ?n qmfen: \ 

TO-fa«TTOl *TOt f*T^rf*T ‘ST'TI^T ^fll?oU 
W. f^nr-sT ! f^S5T-*TO-ST*t$ft I 
•TFR’TTf^flr 5TTS?c^ fafSTTO 11^ II 

9-11. O Brahmin, if there be only benefics in the 
Karakamsa and the Navamsa of Lagna and be aspccted by bene- 
fics, the native will undoubtedly become a king. Should the 
angles/trines from the Karakamsa be occupied by benefics devoid 
of malefic association, the native will be endowed with wealth 
and learning. The combination of benefic and malefic will in 
this context yield mixed results. If the Upakheta (or upagraha, 
vide sloka 5 ch. 32) is in its exaltation sign, or own/frienly sign, 
and is devoid o f malefic aspect, the native will go to heavens 
after death. 

«F3RSTTOTO*«r <TTT3TfT-S: I 

faqtfofctreT TO <*** TO 

12. If the Atmakaraka is in the divisions of the Moon, 
Mars or Venus, the native will go to others’ wives. Otherwise, 
the contrary will prevail. 

^TTTTJT T*ft 3TO> TXSTTTOTft %3T ! | 

*>TOR ^TT'T faTOcTtll^U 

^ «nsfq TTOTSt ^ TOH* 11**11 
gg prttf vHrrfTcTfrowiT: i 

^fs-r^TTOffgcT: II * *h 
^ffacT ?wtto jjt\i 
TTTOfcft *T%MT: (1*^11 
toV sgfTOcf TOT: sg$atfgclTO$cT I 
TT^ OIfcqf?> STfiftST vT>j?tTO$tT H*vsll 
f^TOatSTOT fro ! 5TO^ ?rrsg HTO: l 
srosrft TOn^rf iiv^u 



329 


Chapter 33 

13-18. EFFECTS OF PLANETS IN KARAKAMSA : O 
Brahmin, if the Sun is in the Karakamsa, the native will be enga- 
ged in royal assignments, ff the Full Moon is there, he will enjoy 
pleasures and be a scholar; more so if Venus aspects. If strong 
Mars is in Karakamsa, he will use the weapon spear, will live 
through fire and be an alchemist Should strong Mercury be 
in Karakamsa, he will be skilful in arts and trading, be intelli- 
gent and educated. Jupiter in Karakamsa denotes one doing 
good acts, endowed with spiritualism and Vedic learning. One 
will be endowed with a longevity of 100 years, be sensuous 
and will look after state affairs if Venus is in Karakamsa. Saturn 
in Karakamsa will give such livelihood as due to the native’s 
family. Rahu in Karakamsa denotes a thief, a bowman, a 
machinery maker, and a doctor treating poisonous afflictions. If 
Ketu be in Karakamsa, one will deal in elephants and be a thief 

TfaRT$ «RT SHTPR* I 

^ ?rti 

as >9 s 

afopR ssifa et sffpit qg 113*11 
im gw 1 

g fqqnr ! * 5^1133*1 

19-22. RAHU-SUN IN KARAKAMSA : Should Rahu 
and the Sun be in Karakamsa there will be fear from snakes; if a 
benefic aspects the said combination there will be no fear but a 
malefic aspects will bring death (through serpents). If Rahu 
and the Sun occupy benefic Shadvargas, being in Karakamsa, 
one will be a doctor treating poisonous afflictions while the 
aspect from Mars on the said combination denotes that the 
native will burn either his own house or that of others. Mercury’s 
aspect, instead of that of Mars, will hot cause the said effects. If 
Rahu and the Sun be in Karakamsa and be in a malefic’s sign in 
aspect to Jupiter, one will burn neighbouring house while the 
aspect of Venus will not cause such an event. 



330 ftrihat Parasara Hora Sastra 

■jfqfcq q;^ qtfafr 1 

qftf cTUfft ^FT: *qq qVtsqqi U%iT ll^ll 
Hirt?f% fqqq> «fT fqqf 3r: I 

qaqfff q<raqta> RSq HTOTm^vn 

23-24. GULIKA IN KARAKAMSA ; Should the Full 
Moon aspect the Karakamsa-placed Gulika, the native will lose 
his wealth to thieves or will himself be a thief. If Gulika is in 
Karakamsa but is unaspected by others, one will administer 
poison to others or will himself die of poisoning. Mercury’s 
aspect in this context will give large testicles. 

*rTT*tji q TOJce' fg^rm I 1 
qntRWt qT si5TTq^ ||^|| 

qqqqfa% qfftR sftfaeft 3TTqq 3R: l 

« *>9 % 

Warfare faqfqf 3nq£ qTffqt CTqtTll^ll 
ctftqq qrcftgq: snrra^ l 
gqqqTipft qTsfq qrq% qTsq miq: n^vsll 
*Tfq3T qTR- qeqtsqqi ¥T%rT I 

C X 

eTft*R *rteT: q^lfa^qqR ll^ell 
q%FT TT^sfcqt 5R> qtcT I 
sihq fgq'uHii 

25-29. EFFECTS OF ASPECTS ON KETU IN KARA- 
KAMSA : If Ketu is in Karakamsa in aspect to a malefic, one’s 
ears will be severed or he will suffer from diseases of ears. 
Venus aspecting denotes one initiated into religions order. One 
will be devoid of strength if Mercury and Saturn aspect. If 
Mercury and Venus aspect, he will be the son of a female slave 
or of a female remarried. With Saturn’s aspect one will perform 
penance or be a servant or will be a pseudo-ascetic. Venus and 
the Sun together aspecting will make one serve the king. Thus, 
O Brahmin, are told briefly the effects of Karakamsa. 

q srqqrqq 'mgifrq;: i 
a^ r nq>ra> aqfaqqmq q^rcu^oH 



Chapter 33 33 1 

cT<SlfcR?Sl: HU3 

^TSqfa3%: ?3R tPRStfSTR %cfaq 11^ ? II 

30-31. EFFECTS OF THE 2ND FROM KARAKAMSA : 
If the 2nd from Karakamsa falls in the divisions of Venus/Mars, 
one will be addicted to others’ wives and if Venus or Mars 
aspect the said 2nd, the tendency will last till death. If Ketu is 
the 2nd from Karakamsa in a division of Venus/Mars, such 
addiction will not prevail while the position of Jupiter will cause 
such an evil. Rahu in the said case will destroy wealth. 

R ig I TcT rjrfain 3TR: SR: SRHWR I 
ciftrR srmil sir: qnrRt risrc; n^w 

N 'O ^ 

32. EFFECTS OF THE 3RD FROM KARAKAMSA : 
A malefic in the 3rd from Karakamsa will make onh valorous 
while a benfic will make one timid. 

PITSTR^STTt § *R*r**%f«?h 

?T3T *11 5IR: 113311 

^fefj fsi %5«st sr* u\*n 

tTR 3 Tf9Rl SftR fesi ! I 

c 

33-35. EFFECTS OF THE 4TH FROM KARAKAMSA : 
If the 4th from Karakamsa be occupied by Venus and the Moon, 
one will own palacial (or large) buildings. Similar is the effect of 
an exalted planet in the said 4th. A house made of stones is 
denoted by the occupation of Rahu and Saturn. Mars and Ketu 
indicate a house made of bricks while Jupiter denotes one made 
of wood. The Sun so related will give a house of grass. If the 
Moon be in the 4th from Karakamsa, one will have union with 
his wife in an uncompounded house. 

«p3R1g*qf SRTt'lRT tflR: 1 
TlfsRT&T S'GCTRt SRtT3% 11^11 

*f3RG^ H 3TRFI pR^Tfe^Rt I 

« C 4? ' 

3 aFRtqVlWT f^ST ! n^vall 



Brlhat Parasara Hora Sattra 
erafarafairtnT « 
msnrorihitmi 

5TTH: JRTnjtft R^?T I 

snt 5TR> TljO ^ u^tu ' 

^ trfffqtrqrqft qinRt Tfil ! \ 

RTff% § qrfqRfrtft ^ToqvU 5TR# 3R: ||*oH 

36-40. EF I tCrS OF THE S HI FROM KARAKAMSA : 
IfR ahu and Mars are in the 5th from Karakamsa, one will suffer 
from a pulmonary consumption, more so if the Moon aspects 
them. The aspect of Mars on the said house will bring boils or 
ulcers. Ketu s aspect on the said house will cause dysentery and 
said diseases caused by (impure) water. If Rahu and Gulika be in 
the house there will be fear from mean people aud poison. 
Should Mercury be in the said house, the native will be an ascetic 
of the highest order or one holding staff. The Sun and Mar„ in 
the said house respectively denote one using a knife and spear. 
Saturn denotes a bowman in this context. Rahu and Ketu in 
the said house respectively denote a machinist and a watch 
maker. Venus in the said house will make one a poet and an 
eloquent speaker. 

qnfa RrJjqrrqT ^ | 

piTT flfqr£?T rT«7T 1 

i^^T'cifsr^Tfa, *r ^T«it ny^n 

TlfaffT TfR^IT UY^tl 

%3 ; TT Rt«IcT5ftSflT' Tl^RTSpT cI?N R[ IIWU 

fafg: *RlrT gwqfufft fgaT j I 

fffclltTfTt IIVKII 

41-45. EFFECTS OF KARAKAMSA AND THE 5TH 
THEREFROM : If Jupiter and the Moon are in Karakamsa or 
the 5th thereof, the native will be an author. Venus in the said 


332 


wrrffff?r% ^ 



Chapter 33 


333 


place will make one an ordinary writer while Mercury will give 
still lesser effects in this respect. Should Jupiter be alone in the 
said house, one will be a knower of everything, be a writer, and 
be versed in Vedas and Vedanta philosophy, but not an otatorian 
or a grammarian. Mars in this respect denotes a logician. Mercury 
a Mimamsaka (follower of Mimamsa philosophy, one of the six 
-chief systems of Hindu philosophy), Saturn one dull-witted in 
the assembly, the Sun a musician, the Moon a follower of 
Sankhya Philosophy (of sage Kapila enumerating 25 true 
principles with emphasis on final bliss), and versed in rhetorics 
and singing, and Ketu or Rahu an astrologer. Should Jupiter 
be related to the said positions (caused by others than him), the 
effected stated will effectively come to pass. Some say that the 
2nd from Karakamsa be also similarly considered. 

TOTJTTcT 3R: I 

pnratiYVt 

46. EFFECTS OF THE 6TH FROM KARAKAMSA ; If 
the 6th from Karakamsa is occupied by a malefic, the native will 
be an agriculturist while he will be indolent if a benefic is there. 
The 3rd from Karakamsa be also similarly considered. 

EPF* mqf \ 

er* *rsjs, 

o o 

Hi * Wg % * 1 ^ srifa WTtsfWT \ 

47-48. EFFECTS OF THE 7TH FROM KARAKAMSA ; 
If the Moon and Jupiter are in the 7th from Karakamsa, the 
native will beget a very beautiful wife. Venus in the said house 
denotes a sensuous wife while Mercury indicates a wife versed 
in arts. The Sun so related will give a wife confining domestic 
core while Saturn denotes a wife of a higher age bracket, or a 
pious/sick wife. Rahu in this context will bring a widow in 
marriage. 





334 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


49. EFFECTS OF THE 8TH FROM KARAKAMSA ; If 
a benefic or the planet owning the 8th from Karakamsa be in the 
8th from Karakamsa, the native will be long-lived while a malefic 
so placed will reduce the life span. Aspect/conjunction of both 
benefics and malefics will yield a medium span o£iife. 

HrqSTRt gtf iqaqftRcit 5R: tllfoH 

*qi?TRq qqtf «flt qTTOgqttwt 1 

fasqrqTqt q MV. ? M 

qqq ePHT^farr^ 9Tfq-TTgq^rei^ I 

o « 

qiq: swqq fqqsft 11*311 

qrrc^TiTrsq i 

cRTSfq 5^3rV^t TO pqiqq q 
'PTTqrtJRq l 

wqnffaqiqft g qTRlftgR UV.VH 

STRSfarreq qq^ ! I 

«R?qt r^qR>Tr!> qqfa Sjqq 11**11 
qq*t %q%^ g^tgf q^f«# U 

q fr rqi g ft fqqqY qq qTq?hl*$H 

50-56. EFFECTS OF THE 9TH FROM KARAKAMSA : 
If the 9th from Karakasmsa is aspected or occupied by a benefic, 
the native will be truthful, devoted to elders and attached to his 
own religion. If a malefic is so related as above, one will be 
attached to his religion in boyhood but wifi take to falsehood in 
old age. If Saturn and Rahu are so related as above, one will 
betray his elders and be averse to ancient learning. If Jupiter 
and the Sun are so related as above, one will betray his elders 
and will be disobedient to them. Should Mars and Venus be so 
related as above, and joining in six identical vargas, a female ill- 
related to the native will die. Mercury and the Moon so related 
will cause imprisonment of the native due to association with a 
female not of his own. If Jupiter is alone related to the 9th 
from Karakamsa by aspect or by conjunction, the native will be 
addicted to females and be devoted to sensual enjoyments. 



335 


Chapter 33 

•o sp 

falTfavft 3TSlt tRtfftt 3vT3f3*TtH nnv»u 

\ « > 

'S 

«qFTTT 3TTO% j?Tfa: gfa<T: llXdl 

3?T^ STTT^tars^ «OTT?OT?tf9^ l 

vJ ^ ^ 

sqrTTT SfStWR *v. II1L&II 

»K»i yn^r \ 

fsn* ! 5TT?Wt TTS^UT \\\o\\ 

57-60. EFFECTS OF THE 10TH FROM KARAKAMSA : 

If the 10th from Karakarasa be aspected or conjoined by a bene- 
fic, the native will have firm riches, be sagacious, strong and 
intelligent. A malefic so related will cause harm to his profes- 
sion and deprive him of paternal bliss. Mercury and Venus so • 
related will confer many gains in business (or profession) and 
will make him do many great deeds. The luminaries so related 
to the 10th from Karakamsa and if be in aspect to or conjunct- 
, ion with Jupiter the native will acquire a kingdom. 

-a 

WtfteTOcft 3Tvf: vTTflffT US,?!! 

tin I') 5 I 

ftnaft 3nt^ ?rr^T ?nnr: \\\ r\i 

61-62. EFFECTS OF THE 11TH FROM KARAKAMSA : 

If the 11th from Karakamsa be aspected by or conjunct a benefic, 
the native will enjoy happiness from coborn apart from gaining 
in every undertaking of his. If a malefic is in the said llth the 
native will gain by questionable means, be famous and valorous. 

fr iT fr lyire srcserat 

\ N X, ^ ^ 

amsnrifts^ srift ^ stow 11^311 

vrcqrimq; sqsrpiTfr i 

cT^I UVfll 

X O *9 

?rt 3 *rfa?r: ^nwmm^Mra n^sui 



336 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 

anrfa sirrimr! sqft \ 

TT'flwi?? ^?!m»TrcginTT n^tn 

^ fcfft q-pR^fwlfa 3TT I 

« 

?T 5TTT aTTJ^T gfetT: STSTOfai ^ q*qf?T 1|^|| 

Tf^m trg^ fccft ^nr^t ?ng «nrfc*rit i 
ftra^facnr^q^T faf*w>j nfwftrR • H^«5U 
*>rr*?i*ng i 

*iW ^fatT^rlTO *TTficI*>> 3ITq£ JR: U^&ll 
?iq# %cft VR^iriR sqjrfcn^ I 
W*=qf 1^ftfT3T?d«P> H»jf5*TR (l^oll 

5^T ^3^ %cft *I%R?: I 

qf^rq't qjTfftfrvqf ftRvtfteRR iivatM 

tt|«tt |tt! STJOtsrmq i 

*rfw: RT^R jjhOR ftlf^RT %^T^TU\3^n 
5^ tfVfr: qiqmft to *tiR i 
PRTsfq srst^ftT 'fffwfn fT THRHlV^lt 
qrowfq TTfft w% ?RTsfq SJsNqr: | 

aRRWTWd q'S^q^er HR qtallWII 

63-74. EFFECTS OF THE 12TH FROM KARAKAMSA : 
If the 12th from Karakamsa has a bencfic, the expcnsess will be 
on good account while a malefic will cause bad expenses. If the 
said 1 2th be vacant then also good effects (in respect of expenses) 
will follow. If there be a benefic planet in exaltation or m own 
house in the 12th from Karakamsa or if Ketu is so placed and 
aspected by or conjunct a benefic one will attain heavens after 
death. One will attain final emancipation if Ketu is in the 12th 
(from Karakamsa) identical with Aries/Sagittarius and is 
aspected by a benefic. If Ketu in the 1 2th from Karakamsa 
and be with aspect/conjunction of a malefic one will not attain 
final emancipation. If the Sun and Ketu are in the said 12th the 
native will worship Lord Siva. The Moon and Ketu in the 
said 12th denotes a worshipper of Gauri (a con-sort of 
L°rd Siva) Venus and Ketu in the said 12th denotes a 



Chapter 33 


337 


worshipper of Lakshmi (a consort of Lord Vishnu) and a wealthy 
person. Mars and Ketu in the said 12th denotes a worshipper 
of Lord Subramanya (an offspring of Lord Siva). Rahu in the 
12th from Karakamsa will make one worship Durga or some 
mean deity. Ketu alone in the said 12th denotes Subramanya’s 
or Canesa’s worshipper. If Saturn is in the said 12th in a 
malefic’s sign one will worship mean deities. Venus and Saturn 
in the said 1 2th in a malefic’s sign will also make one worship 
mean deities. Similar inferences can be drawn from the 6th 
Navamsa counted from Amatya Karaka’s Navamsa. 

«FTT*Ti7TTrT qTWJgtf ! [ 

fnsq 

frq sriwr i 

75-76. MISCELLANEOUS MATTERS (upto sloka 84) .* 
O Brahmin, if there are two malefics in a trine from Karakamsa, 
the native will have knowledge of Mantras (sacred spells) and 
Tantras (mystical formularies for the worship of deities for attain- 
ment of super-human powers). If a malefic simultaneously 
aspects the said yoga, the native will use these learnings for 
malevolent purposes while a benefic’s aspect will make him use 
the same for public good 

foot TFRrft i 

gtq qpwfaqqfr 

gt# t 

q^Jrqrsfj? famt TTg-jift qfe ii\$eu 

sqhnngtq neon 

fqsqnf?vf%?T ?r?ti rrcr tVtI htr; i 

far# trfaiictn 



338 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


?T* Mfcft fw^Tf^rT: 1 
Fmn^rTrr iu^u 

«gftrenfa*T ^t?tt ?r asm: i 

if %*% 3* qfe^TJ3fT^TT^>: ll^U 
f5 'TTfl^Tt *r mt RHS: I 

ff m TT^T, ^¥iT£R>^rTUq>m 
^ $% cTf StlrR ffrTTFWlT*: I 

77-84J. If the Moon is in the Karakamsa in aspect to Venus, 
the native will be an alchemist and if be in aspect to Mercury he 
will be a doctor capable of curing all diseases. If the Moon is in 
the 4th from Karakamsa and be in aspect to Venus, the native 
be afflicted by white leprosy; if in aspect to Mars blood and 
bilious disorders, and if to Ketu black leprosy. Should Rahu 
and Mars be in the 4th or 5th from Karakamsa the native will 
suffer from pulmonary consumption and if there be Moon’s 
aspect simultaneously this affliction will be certain. Mars alone 
in the 4th/5th from Karakamsa will cause/ulcers. If Ketu be in 
the 4th or 5th from Karakamsa one will suffer from dysentery and 
afflictions due to (impure) water. Rahu and Gulika in the 4th/5th 
from Karakamsa will make one a doctor curing poisonous afflic- 
tions or will cause troubles through poison. Should Saturn be 
alone in the 4th or 5th from Karakamsa, the native will be skil- 
ful in archery. Ketu lonely placed in the 4tb/5th from 
Karakamsa will make one a maker of watches etc. Mercury so 
placed will make one an ascetic of the highest order or an ascetic 
holding staff. Rahu, Sun and Mars respectively in these places 
denote a machinist, a knife user and spear/arrow user. 

Wttf m Item 

iphinc^n 

85-86. The Moon and Jupiter in the Karakamsa or the 5th 
therefrom denotes a writer well-versed in all branches of learning. 
The grade of writership will comparatively descend in the case of 
Venus and further in the case of Mercury if so placed as above. 



Chapter 33 


339 


sra jnrrr^ \ 

■k ^ 

^f^W> y^iMd Hd^H 

TOfsrTOif??re>t ^ ^ *TOTfor \ 

*^5^ fTO$«T #3?TTr^facT framiscll 

mrr^?> *{TO ^Tfr ^cTFTRtR I 
*fat?PS> TO Uc&ll 

**TCT **T teffo STIrTt I 

=3 flt?TO>tT3T: HTfjJcTOTO ll£o|| 

**V W^RTfq^TO TftcTrT?^ J^TITO I 

^tTfalrRT: fR<r«^;*TTPffTOR*: ll£{lt 
*T*UTR*tT ?Tf«f4ih?|Ti;acft *TTO I 

frorcitauevi* 

’flit «wp sort amw?** ^ srtq i 

87-92 J . PLANETS IN 5TH FROM KARAKAMSA : Should 
Venus be in the 5th from Karakamsa, the native will be a poet, 
be eloquent and be a poet- Jupiter replacing denotes that he 
will be an exponent and be all-knowing but be unable 
to speak in an assembly. He will be further a grammarian 
and a scholar in Vedas and Upanishads. Saturn in this context 
will make one ineffective in an assembly, while Mercury will 
make him a skilful in Meemamsa (one of the six chief Darsanas). 
Mars in Karakamsa or the 5th therefrom will make one Justice 
while the Moon denotes a Sankhya Yogi, a rhetor or a singer. 
The Sun in the said 5th will make one learned in Vedanta and 
music. Ketu in the said 5th will make one a nathematician and 
skilful in astrology. Should Jupiter be related to the said Ketu, 
these learnings will be by inheritance. AH these as well apply to 
the 2nd/3rd from Karakamsa and to the Karakamsa itself apart 
from applying to the 5th from Karakamsa. 

3T ejefft frTSSTTOT It^ll 

fa?R«Jr RT^reft I 

93-93£. Should Ketu be in the 2nd/3rd from Karakamsa, 
the native will be defective in speech, more so if a malefic 
aspects Ketu as above. 



340 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 

wfsiiiHHM qqrctmrq nevu 

qrq*m<* q?spfc<rt fa^taer: i 
ararstan^ q ^ qt^T: qtfacrr tnrruestit 

q>lWq?TTcrT^ ??qi: sq 'ft&Rl: i 

^ qmq*TCTqfecftqi^q^fjj5T ! U^H 

q faffqt qtff: | 

qmqiwuw^ HfTRFj qra^3 q^iq iisasii 
^ qfqqrfq qtntsq qiqqtwteq^Rql: i 
qq cRnfq'flrqRl gqistat 
?TnnR-MW3«KWT q^i qTsq farqfsqm i 
5% Hwqq: start qrTT^mq^ qqni£€.n 

94-99. If malefics be in the Karakamsa, Arudha Lagna and 
the 2nd and 8th from these places, there will be Kemadruma 
yoga; the effects of which will be still severer if the Moon’s aspect 
be there. The effects due for these yogas will come to pass in the 
Dasa periods of the Rasis or planets concerned. Kemadruma 
Yoga will operate additionally if there are malefics in the 2nd 
and 8 from the Rasi whose Dasa will be in currency. The 
results of such yoga will also be inauspicious. If the 2nd and 
8th in the chart cast for the beginning of a Dasa have malefics, 
then also Kemadruma prevails throughout the Dasa. 

atq iftn*>rcq>T«rnT: 113x11 

Chapter 34 

Yoga Karakas 

VK<m*iqitnS«»‘ q*f Sfafi rrqi ! \ 

1. O Brahmin, thus I have told you about the effects 
derivable through Krakamsa. Now listen to the effects arising out 
of planetary house lord ships. 



341 


Chapter 34 

%*5Trsrowi?: hWt q fenfar 

flnfrnniwi 

%'£fqqft«Tc3Tq fawfo Jjwrqqq | 
qs^*i qqrj fasfrra^TO^tl?! u^ll 

q^TPf 4* fq?Tqg^g^ | 
fqq^mifaqr: flq q$T: qrTOvfT: ?qm: liVII 
sqqfjrfl^^fn: ST^qqfa q?5TirqT: ( 

?qT?Ti*tTTrgffara j^wt^tT OtRB itx.li 
sn^q^9rc37ir;CT?lt q sjqqq: | 
faq?iqrfaq?^sq> fftoiq?# g n^u 

^tqq g?ft q>q> fairer qqraq?: t 
?r 7?w*ic?nftq>sq gqfcFjnwfortcT nvati 

2-7. NATURE DUE TO LORDSHIPS OF PLANETS : 
Benefics owning angles will not give benefic effects while malefics 
owning angles will not remain inauspicious. The lord of a trine 
will give auspicious results. The lord of the ascendant is specially 
auspicious as the ascendant is an angle as well as trine. The 5th, 
and 9tb houses are specially for wealth while the 7th and 10th 
are specially for happiness. Any planet owning the 3rd, 6th, or 
the 1 1th will give evil effects. The effects due to the lords of the 
12th, and 8th will depend on their association. In each group, 
the significance will be in- the ascending order. The 8th lord is 
not auspicious as he owns the 12th from the 9th. If the lord of 
the 8th simultaneously owns the 3rd, 7th or 11th, he will prove 
specifically harmful while his simultaneous ownership of a trine 
will bestow auspicious effects. The planet owning a predominant 
house will stall the effects due to another owning a less signi- 
ficant house and will give his own results. The 8th lordship of 
the Sun and the Moon is not evil. 

Notes : The rules given in this part will help us to decide 
the good and bad planets for each ascendant based on lordships. 
A summary of these rules is given below to enable use of 
suitable application of lordships. 

1 . Kcndradbipatya Dosha : This blemish goes to natural bene- 
fics by virtue of angular lordship. For example, for Gemini ascen- 



342 


Brihat Parasara flora Sastra 

dant the ownership of 4th and 7th goes to Jupiter and hence he 
is not a benefic for this ascendant, Lagna lord owning an angle 

i.e. 4th/7th/10th, shall not prove inauspicious. (Even if he owns 
an evil house, he is not classified as a malefic.) Natural benefics 
are increasing Moon, Mercury, Jupiter and Venus. Their angular 
lordship blemish will be in the ascending order. That is the 
Moon is the least malefic and Venus is the most malefic by such 
ownership. 

2. Malefic as owner of angle : If a malefic owns an angle 
he will not be inauspicious. This docs not mean that he will 
become auspicious. (The sage has cautiously worded his verse.) 
To be auspicious by virtue of angular lordship, the malefic should 
simultaneously own a trine. If he docs not own a trine, he will 
be neutral by mere angular lordship; neither he will be disad- 
vantageous. For Libra ascendant. Satrun is classified as unsullied 
yogakaraka because he owns the 4th (an angle) and the 5th (a 
trine). The Sun s beneficence to Taurus ascendant cannot be 
compared to Saturn’s for Libra, because the Sun has only one 
house which is angular to the ascendant. For. Leo ascendant Mars 
becomes a top rank benefic as he owns an angle (4th) and a trine 
(9th). Similarly for Cancer ascendant. The same Mars for Capri- 
corn ascendant by virtue of angular lordship is not that superior 
because he does not simultaneously own a trine. Similarly his role 
for Aquarius ascendant. Weak Moon by virtue of angular lord- 
ship remains just neutral. 

3. Primarily wealth-givers are the lords of 5th and 9th. The 
lords of 7th and 10th contribute to one’s happiness. Each of 
them should be individually wefldisposed. Trinal lordship to 
Jupiter will enable him give wealth abundantly and uninterrup- 
tedly. Venus becoming lord of 7th or 10th will give general 
happiness if the occupies an angle or a trine. 

4. Lords of 3rd, 6th and 11th are classified as evil planets 
while the lords of 2nd, 12th and 8th will act according to asso- 
ciation. If these lords simultaneously own such another 
house, they will be significantly harmful. If such a planet simult- 
aneously own3 a trine he will be favourable. For example, Jupiter 
is doubly evil for Libra ascendant as he owns the 3rd and 6th. 
Saturn, though owning the 8th, will be favourable for a Gemini 
nativity as he is the lord of the 9th as well. In considering two 



Chapter 34 


342 


lordships in any context, the Moolatrikona house has prime 
importance as against the other ordinary house. The Moolatri- 
kona lordship will reveal itself effectively rather than the other 
own house. 

5. When two planets are involved in a context, the one 
with good lordship will stall the evil effects of another planet 
owning a less powerful house. To wit, if the 9th lord and the 8th 
lord are both involved in a yoga, the 9th lord will give his good 
effects obstructing the evils due to the 8th lord. 

6. We have the following two sets of good houses, (a) 1st, 
4th, 7th and the 10th. (b) 5th and 9th. In each group the benefic 
disposition will ascend from house to house. That is, 7th lord 
is more powerful than the 4th. The 9th lord is so as against the 
5th lord 

7. Similarly two sets of evil houses are before us; (a) 3rd, 
6th and 11th. (b) 12th, 2nd and 8th. Here again the maleficence 
will move in the ascending order. To wit, the 1 1th lord is the 
most evil in his group while the 8th lord is so in his group. 

8. The summary of points 6 and 7 is t the 10th and 9th 
lords are the highest benefic planets while the 1 Ith and 8th loros 
are the most adverse. Thus, the 10th lord's counterpart is the 1 1th 
lord and the 9th lord's counterpart is the 8lh lord. (If we consi- 
der Saturn for Aries ascendant, he gets one best house and one 
worst house, i.e. the 10th and 1 1th houses. The 1 Ith house being 
his Moolatrikona, he is predominantly the I Ith lord rather than 
the 10th lord and hence very evil. Similarly his role for Gemini 
ascendant in which case the 9th lordship prevails over his 8th 
lordship and so he is not evil but favourable.) 

9. The roles of various planets are generally based on these 
grounds and what we have had so far is a rough frame-work. 
However, no decision should be taken at one single point. For 
actual picture, the sage classifies the planets further in the succe- 
eding verses. 

10. As far as Rahu and Ketu are concerned, they act 
according to their position, association and depositors, vide verse 
16 infra. 

*£**1 33 ) 7 # \ 

TTRfrff ^tflcl: TFTT Uq|| 

*• cs 



344 


Brihat Parasara Bora Sastra 

ST9«1T ^rTTt?(T*T \ 

wlwf^rffr^rg^T: ueit 

fcaifu'Twg'Wt it: mini ^r«RT> m i 

^srsrg^TTsniiri sr^ri^mV^iT \\\o\\ 

8-10. N ATURAL BENEFICS AND MALEFlCS : Jupiter and 
Venus are benefics while the Moon is mediocre in beneficence. 
Mercury is neutral (i.e. a benefic when associated with a benefit 
and a malefic when related to a malefic). Malcfics are the Sun, 
Saturn and Mars. Full Moon, Mercury, Jupiter and Venus are 
stronger in the ascending order Weak Moon, the Sun, Saturn 
and Mars are stronger (in malefic disposition) in the ascending 
order. In revealing maleficence due to angular rulership, the 

Moon, Mercury, Jupiter and Vemis are significant in the ascen- 
ding order. 

Notes : Jupiter and Venus are first rate benefics while the 
Moon is next to them. The Moon’s variable dispositions have 
been given in the earlier pages. Mercury is neutral, i.e. a benefic 
in relation to a benefic and is a malefic in relation to a malefic. 
He has no disposition of his own. If he is alone, he will be 
favourable. Considering the Moon and Mercury in benefic classes 
the four planets viz. Moon, Mercury, Jupiter and Venus are* 
superior in the ascending order. That is Mercury is more bene- 
ficial than Moon, Jupiter is more beneficial than Mercury and 
Venus is the highest benefic. However, some exponents hold the 
view that Jupiter is the highest benefic, see “Subhanampatih” 

As regards malefics, the Sun, Saturn and Mars come under 
this class when the nodes are excluded for they do not have 
their own disposition. Here again, the Sun is the least malefic, 
Saturn is more malefic than the Sun; and Mars is the highest 
malefic as against the Sun and Saturn. 

frff jrtnmffr 'TTtMHI'ft'Hfl | 

shrank ?raT r 
3ift% *rrt fasirrcft *tt srrt 

1 1-12. ANGULAR AND TRINAL LORDSHIPS : If there be 
an exchange between an angular lord and a trinallord, or if these 



545 


Chapter 54 

two lords join in an angle or in a trine, or if a trinal lord is in 
angle or vice versa, or if there be full aspect between them, they 
cause a yoga. One born in such a voga will become a king and be 
famous. 

Notes : The following permutations will emerge from these 
two verses which yogas will make the native famous giving royal 
status. These are : 

(1) exchange between an angular lord and a trinal lord. 
For example Gemini ascendant having Mercury in Aquarius 
and Saturn in Virgo. 

(2) angular lord and trinal lord in a trine, whether they 
own or not. 

(3) angular lord and trinal lord in an angle, whether they 
own or not. 

(4) trinal lord in an angle, whether he owns or not. 

(5) angular lord in a trine, whether he owns or not. 

(6) angular lord and trinal lord in mutual opposition (as 
full aspect is required), particularly in good bhavas. 

stvfcr ^ \ 

13. If one and the same planet gets the lordships of a trine 
as well as an angle or if a planet is in an angle or in a trine, it 
will prove specially a yogakaraka. 

TRFTf HT sfaflT l 

st n?*n 

14. ANGULAR LORDSHIP : It has been said that a 
malefic owning an angle will become auspicious which is true only 
when it simultaneously lords over a trine and not by merely own- 
ing an angle. 

Note : This aspect has been clarified in the initial verses 
of the present chapter. 

ep?jfspttriTfaTl%^ 'TTR^FTTfU'ft q*T I 
c!7T>: SR: U$SU1 

15. If the lords of an angle or a trine owns simultaneously 
an evil house, he(i.e. the angular lord or the trinal lord)does not 



346 Brlhat Parasara Bora SastrQ 

cause a Rajayoga by mere relations stipulated (as per slokas 1 1 
and 12 above). 

Notes : In this context, if the evil house is Moolatrikona, 
that evil lordship will prevail. Alternatively if the angle or trine 
is Moolatrikona, the evil lordship is suppressed so that the good 
lordship shows up. Here such angular lord and such trinal lord 
by mere relations (as per verses 11 and 12) do not become 
Yogakaraka or status makers. 

16. RAHU & KETU : Rahu and Kctu give predominently 
the effects as due to their conjunction with a house lord or as 
due to the house they occupy. 

Notes : As already stated, Rahu owns Aquarius and Ketu 
Scorpio. Still they do not have a disposition of their own in 
the matter of giving particular elferts. (In point of fact, these 
ownerships are for calculation of some of ‘Jaimni’ dasas etc. and 
not in a common context.) Inasmuch as they do not have a 
sign of their own, they have also not been specifically classified 
as malefic or benefic for the various ascendants as could be seen 
from the rules enunciated by sage Parasara in the current 
chapter. Hence it is suggested that the results to be given by 
Rahu and Ketu will depend on their association with other lords 
and occupation of houses. So to say, if they are related to good 
lords they will reveal effects favourable to the native, otherwise 
not. Alternatively they should be in favourable houses like 
angle, trine etc, so that good effects follow their position. 

qf? fireW 37 I 

37 ll^ll 

17. If a node is in an angle in aspect to or association with 
a trinal lord or be in a trine in similar relation with an angular 
lord it will become Yogakaraka. 

Notes : Two important positions are indicated for a node 
becoming Yogakaraka for a native. It should be in an angle in 
relation to a trinal lord or be in a trine in aspect to an angular 



Chapter 34 34? 

lord. In such a situation Rahu or Ketu will become a 
Yogakaraka. 

* ^51 tfttWiRTi: I 

■^TS^a^T: tffST: $qqi q* % ! II? ml 

18. O Sage, please narrate according to the signs rising as 
to which planet is a yogakaraka and which is inauspicious. 

U«IT 'JCZ f^Tl fa* I rT#n^of , 

T?£?7Tc%sf(T ^3?ft l| ? £|| 

qtqtffctrftTcn: qwr: tjsfcrarT^ » 

* *T*T iftn^T^oi n^ o| , 

TO *QT?*TTWt%?T ^ferT: ||? ?n 

q^RETtsfq 5?cnft *l%g: qTfiqt t^T: I 

^^*WFW q>5T f^flrTR ! 

19-22. PLANETS & ARIES ASCENDANT : O Brahmin, 
listen to these with examples. Even though Mars is the lord of 
the 8th, he will be helpful to (other) auspicious planets. Saturn, 
Mercury and Venus are malefics. Auspicious are Jupiter and 
the Sun. The mere conjunction of Saturn and Jupiter will not 
produce auspicious effects (although they own a trine and angle). 
If Jupiter is at the disposal of a malefic, he will surely give 
inauspicious results. Venus is a direct (or independent) killer. 
Saturn etc. will also inflict death if associated with an adverse 
planet (i.e. Venus). That is how the effects will be derived by 
an Aries native. 

Notes : For Aries ascendant Mars is the ruler of the 1st and 
the 8th. The ascendant is his Moolatrikona sign while the 8th 
is his secondary sign. He will hence predominantly be favourable 
He cannot be independently auspicious but can help another favo- 
urable planet like the Sun or Jupiter or even the Moon through 
whom he will reveal his good qualities. It is also not illogical to 
conclude that if Mars is well related to Jupiter or the Sun or the 
Moon and is in good bhavas, favourable effects will come 
through him. 



348 


Srihat Parasara Horn Sastra 

As regards other unsullied benefic planets for this ascendant 
we have only two. These are Jupiter and the Sun. Even if 
Jupiter is captured by another adversary, his good results will be 
stalled. Saturn, Mercury and Venus are malefics and will cause 
harm. Venus will prove a killer as he is the 2nd and 7th lord. 
Saturn and Mercury will also inflict death if related to Venus. 
The Moon’s role is not discussed by the sage. The Moon will 
give mixed results according to association etc. as she is an 
angular ruler. 

An association between Jupiter-Sun, Jupiter-Mars or 
Mars-Sun will be highly favourable for the ascendant in question. 
Jupiter-Saturn association will not prove to be helpful although 
they own the 9th and 10th. It is because, Saturn is 1 1th lord 
with prime emphasis on his Aquarius ownership, 

qnu: STfafeqFITTt I 

qqentftewqsr u^YII 

23-24. FOR TAURUS ASCENDANT : Jupiter, Venus 
and the Moon are malefics. Saturn and the Sun are auspicious. 
Saturn will cause Rajayoga. Mercury is somewhat auspicious, 
Jupiter etc. and Mars will inflict death. These hints are for a 
Taurus native. 

Notes : Jupiter is a malefic for Taurus ascendaut and will 
avail of the first opportunity to inflict harm as he owns the 8th 
and IJth houses both of which are evil. He is the first-rate 
adversary. The Moon being the 3rd lord is not auspicious. 
Venus is also classified here as an evil planet and a maraka 
planet. The words '‘afhjrcqY’ (Jeevadayo) indicate the Jupiter 
group, i.e. Jupiter, the Moon and Venus. According to the 
following words of Susloka Sataka — srsff ^ ?T 

— for Scorpio ascendant there is no blemish (to Mars) of 
the 6tb lordship and also for Taurus ascendant (in the case of 
Venus). Sage Parasara apparently took into serious consi- 
deration the 6th lordship (Moolatrikona) of Venus and calssified 
him as an adversary. Though there are some more exponents 
to favour Susloka Sataka’s line of thinking, Parasara being an 



Chapter 34 


349 


undisputed authority should be given more weight. The Sun 
and Saturn are benches. Saturn owns the best trine and best 
angle and hence he will bestow kingly status on the native. The 
Sun though a malefic by virtue of owning an angle proves 
auspicious. The rule that a malefic owning an angle should 
own a trine also, so that he becomes a Yogakaraka (vide sloka 
14 supra) is naturally not applicable to the luminaries as 
they own only one sign each. As regards the role of Mercury, 
he is only of mixed nature for Taurus ascendant and he is not 
an excellent benefic by virtue of owning a Maraka house in 
addition to a trine. The 5th is his Moolatrikona and exaltation 
sign, If Mcreury joins Saturn/Sun, he will act more effectively. 

Mars is classified as a killer apart from Jupiter, Venus and 
the Moon. Mars is a killer for he owns the 7th and 12th. The 
role of Jupiter and VeDus as killers is also understandable. 
Though the Moon is said to be a killer, she cannot inde- 
pendently do so for she is only the 3rd lord which is the least 
malefic among 3rd, 6th and 1 1th. The luminaries are considered 
not inauspicious even by ownership of the 8th house; as such 
the 3rd house lordshsp of the Moon in the ease of Taurus be 
leniently viewed from the point of wiew of inflicting death. Her 
connections with Jupiter or Mars can empower her to inflict 
death on the Taurus native. 

^*r5T>TTt^n: 'TNT: WR; 1 

sftepi tfWV Illicit 

25-26. FOR GEMINI ASCENDANT : Mars, Jupiter and 
the Sun are malefics while Venus is the only auspicious planet. 
The conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn is similar to that for 
Aries ascendant. The Moon is the prime killer, but it is 
dependant on her association. Thus have been explained by 
the scholars the effects for Gemini ascendant. 

Notes : The three planets, viz. Jupiter, the Sun and Mars 
are adverse for Gemini ascendant. There is no hint on Saturn’s 
role except that Saturn-Jupiter conjunction does not yield a yoga 
just as it does not do so for an Aries native. Saturn owns the 



350 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


8th and the 9th while the 9th is his Moolatrikona. Jupiter owns 
the 7th and IOth. It is my personal feeling that an exchange 
between Saturn and Jupiter in the 9th and 1 Oth or their place- 
ment in conjunction in the 9th/ 10th, or Saturn in the 9th as 
Jupiter is in the 10 will prove a very favourable point. (This 
line of thinking cannot be extended to Aries ascendant, i.e. 
exchange between 9th and 10th lords & C for Jupiter will be 
in fall in the 10th in a key house.) 

For Gemini ascendant, Mars owns two evil houses, the 6th 
and 1 1th and hence he is a malefic. The Sun owning the 3rd 
will not be helpful. 

Venus, the lord of the 5th and 12th, is declared to be 
highly favourable, as the 5th is his Moolatrikona. In view of 
the friendship between Venus and Mercury, the 12th lordship 
of Venus is not seriously considered adverse. On the same 
lines, Mercury for Libra ascendant is considered favourable 
although he owns the 12th, which is his Moolatrikona and 
exaltation — thus a predominant house. 

*TTiT^grff qrft SJSIT: \ 

HTvTSpf: Duvall 

sita-i ircii 

27-28. CANCER ASCENDANT : Venus and Mercury 
are malefics. Mars, Jupiter and the Moon are auspicious. Mars 
is capable of conferring a full-fledged yoga and giving auspicious 
effects. Saturn and the Sun are killers and give effects according 
to association. These are Cancer ascendant’s effects. 

Notes : The role of the Sun is compared to that of Saturn 
as a killer. The Sun is the lord of the 2nd and Saturn rules the 
7th and 8th for Cancer ascendant. Both the houses of Saturn 
are inauspicious and hence he is classified as a killer. However, 
they are not independently capable of doing bad or good but 
act as per their relationship with others. 

Venus is inauspicious by virtue of angular lordship 
(4th house — Moolatrikona) and the 11th lordship. (The 11th 
lord for a movable sign is a malefic, i.e. Saturn for Aries, 
Venus for Cancer, the Sun for Libra and Mars for Capricorn 



Chapter 34 


351 


ascendants.) Thus Venus gets a dual role to do evil tor a 
Cancer native. The 3rd and 12th lordship of Mercury will 
inflict harm and hence he is inauspicious. 

The best planet for this ascendant is Mars as he owns a 
trine as well as an angle. The 10th lordship will prevail much 
more favourably as the 10th is the best of the 4 angles and 
Aries is the Moolatrikona sign of Mars. The other two 
favourable planets are Jupiter and the Moon. Jupiter is the 
lord of the 6th and 9th. Though 6th is his Moolatrikona, the 
sage has given preference to the 9th lordship for obviously two 
reasons : firstly the 9th is best of the two trines and Jupiter is 
a close friend of the Moon, the aseendant lord. The 3rd 
favourable planet is the Moon who is the ascendant lord. The 
order of preference is Mars, Jupiter and the Moon, i.e. benefic 
tendency will descend from one to another and hence the Moon 
is the least benefic. If Mars is well related to Jupiter, the Moon 
or to the Sun, he can do wonders for a Cancer native, The best 
place as far as Saturn is concerned is Capricorn in the company 
of Mars or the Moon. 

TNT: l 

n^eii 

mtTieg I 

ll^oH 

29-30. LEO ASCENDANT : Mercury, Venus and Saturn 
are malefics. Auspicious effects will be givin by Mars, Jupiter 
and the Sun. The conjunction of Jupiter and Venus (though 
Kendra Kona lords) will not produce auspicious results. Saturn 
and the Moon are killers who will give effects according to 
association. These are the effects applicable to Leo ascendant. 

Notes : Just as the Sun is noted as a killer for Cancer 
ascendant, the Moon is similarly classified as a killer for Leo 
ascendant as she is the lord of the 12th house. This killer-role 
has not barred the Moon from becoming a Yogakaraka or an 
auspicious planet for Leo ascendant as per our experience. 
Saturn's adverse role is because of two prime reasons— firstly 
he is a sworn enemy of the ascendant lord and secondly he is the 
7th lord apart from being the 6th lord. Mercury’s role is 



352 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 

equally ominous as the 2nd and 12th come under his regent. The 

3rd and 10th lordship (a bad house and an ancle respectively) 
makes Venus unreliable. 

Mars is again the best planet for Leo ascendant followed 
by favourable roles to be enacted by Jupiter and the Sun, Mars 
rules the 4th and 9th; Jupiter the 5th and 8th and the Sun 
ascendant. Here again, the Sun is the 3rd in order. 

qm: qti-TTqft \ 

qtrqftsfq qrfgr:, nq: m^qqj^mq: l 

ll^ll 

31-32. VIRGO ASCENDANT : Mars, Jupiter and the 
Moon are malefics while Mercury and Venus are auspicious. 
The conjunction of Venus and Mercury will produce yoga. 
Venus is a killer as well. The Sun's role will depend on his 
association. These effects are for Virgo ascendant,. 

Notes : Mercury ruling the ascendant and the 10th house 
and Venus lording over the 2nd and 9th are classified as 
favourable planets. Venus by virtue of owning the 2nd will 
act as a killer also. (Mars ruling the 8th can also act as a killer.) 
Jupiter rules two angles— the 4th and the 7th— while the Moon 
is the Ilth lord. For these reasons, these two are considered 
inauspicious. The Sun will be good if he joins good planets 
in good houses, for example in the 10th along with Mercury. 
There is no hint in the text about Saturn’s role. By virtue of 
the 5th lordship and good relationship with the ascendant lord 
Mercury, he will prove auspicious. But the stain due to 6th 
lordship will cause a change in his disposition and he cannot be 
counted as an invariable dependent. 

attarv'flTCTrTT: qxqi: i 

fv *0 O -O 

WTt TTStqtq^q VTTqft 

55ft father sfarai: qjqT *nr^ivr^n*TT: i 

q^TFqq fqwfa 113*11 

33-34. LIBRA ASCENDANT : Jupiter, the Sun and 
Mars are malefics. Auspicious are Saturn and Mercury. The 





Chapter 34 353 

Moon and Mercury will cause Rajayoga. Mars is a killer. 
Jupiter and other malefics will also acquire a disposition to 
inflict death. Venus is neutral. Thus should be known about 
Libra ascendant. 

Notes : Although Venus is the ruler of the ascendant, he 
owns 8th as well, and hence the sage term him as neutral, 
Dire malefic is Jupiter, the lord of the 3rd and the 6th. The 
ruler of the 2nd and the 7th, Mars, is equally inauspicious 
while the Sun ruling the 1 1th will act as an obstructing force. 
These three planets, viz. Jupiter, Mars and the Sun are more 
malefic if mutually related but unrelated to Saturn, Mercury or 
the Moon, On the other hand, Mars or the Sun will act as 
primary benefics if they join Saturn, Mercury or Venus according 
to one school of thought. 

TFIT: ST'fft I 

tftwrcqft 113101 

j fi wi auM tftt wwpi: 1 

^ U3Vi 

35-36. FOR SCORPIO ASCENDANT : Venus, Mercury 
and Saturn are malefics. Jupiter and the Moon are auspicious. 
The Sun as well as the Moon arc Yogakarakas. Mars is neutral. 
Venus and other malefics acquire the quality of causing death. 
These are for a Scorpio native. 

Notes : Just as Venus is a neutral planet for Libra 
ascending, Mars is also neutral for Scorpio ascendant. Mars 
owns the ascendant and the 6th, the latter being his Moolatri- 
kona. The Sun (lord of the 10th) and the Moon (lord of the 
9th) are termed the best yogakarakas. Jupiter though ruling 
the 2nd (and the 5th), is auspicious just as Mercury for Taurus 
ascendant ruling the 2nd and the 5th. (of course Mercury’s 
Moolatrikona is the 5th ) Venus, Saturn and Mercury are 
malefics as well as death-dealing planets. Saturn can be 
practically auspicious if he is in the 5th/9th, being lord of an 
angle, from the point of view of status, finance etc. 


tis? <rsr «nq: i 



' 354 


Brillat Parasara Hora Sastra 

^TT?T: Split mT‘fr<T$T'Jr: | 

qv?r asr nscii 

37-38 SAGITTARIUS ASCENDANT : Only Venus is 
inauspicious. Mars and the Sun are auspicious. The Sun and 
Mercury are capable of conferring a yoga Saturn is a killer. 
Jupiter is neutral. Venus acquires killing powers. These effects 
are for Sagittarius ascendant. 

Notes : Venus is a first-rate malefic for Sagittarius 
ascendant as he owns the 6th and 11th. The sage hints that 
none is akin to Venus in giving malefic effects for this ascendant. 
Saturn is straightaway a killer, ruling the 2nd and the 3rd. 
Venus can also become a killer (if related to Saturn). Though 
Mercury rules two angles— the 7th and 10th— he is declared 
auspicious whereas for Virgo ascendant as well as Gemini 
ascendant, Jupiter is considered inauspicious. This supreme 
role of Mercury is possibly because of his ownership of the 10th 
house (moolatrikona and hence predominant against 7th house 
ownership) whereas Jupiter does not own Moolatrikona identical 
with the 10th house — best of the angles— for an ascendant ruled 
by Mercury. If the Sun (ruler of the 9th) joins Mercury, both 
of them will confer still superior Yoga for Sagittarius natives. 
Mars gives primarily his 5th house effects (moolatrikona) 
shedding his 12th lordship and hence is a favourable planet. 
Jupiter is neither a first-rate benefic nor an adversary for he 
owns the 4th (angular lordship’s blemish). The Moon ruling 
the 8th cannot be a powerful Yogakaraka unless well-related 
to Mercury, the Sun or Mars. An association between the 
Moon End Jupiter can confer a yogH psr excellence* 

qr«n: | 

t$Ti( qnTT; 

5PT; «*svhcT: 5ftecT; I 

u*oii 

39-40. CAPRICORN ASCENDANT *• Mars, Jupiter and 
the Moon are malefics, Venus and Mercury are auspicious 
Saturn wiil not be a killer of his own. Mars and other malefics 
will inflict death. The Sun is neutral. Only Venus is capable 



Chapter 34 


355 

of causing a superior yoga. These are the effects applicable to 
Capricorn ascendant. 

Notes : The sage has- listed Mars in the first place while 
mentioning adverse planets for Capricorn ascendant as Mars rules 
the 4th and 11th. Jupiter is lord of the 2nd and 12th, the latter 
being his important house. The 7th lord Moon is not quite a 
favourable planet. 

Saturn and the Sun are neither very favourable nor very 
adverse. Saturn will reveal killing powers if he joins Jupiter, 
Mars or the Moon. While Venus and Mercury are both 
auspicious in their own way, the former is the best yogakaraka 
for this ascendant, for he is the lord of the 5th and 10th, 

ffTTT: STsft \ 

41-42. AQUARIUS ASCENDANT : Jupiter, the Moon 
and Mars are malefics while Venus and Saturn are auspicious. 
Venus is the only Rajayoga causing planet. Jupiter, the Sun 
and Mars are killers. Mercury gives meddling effects. These 
effects are described by the learned for Aquarius ascendant. 

Notes : The 2nd and lJth lord Jupiter is a dire malefic 
followed by the Moon (the 6th lord) and Mars (ruling the 3rd 
and 10th). While Venus and Saturn are both auspicious for 
Aquarius ascendant, Venus is the only planet that can be 
considered to have been vested with powers of Rajayoga. Saturn 
is not compared to Venus as he owns the 1 2th simultaneously. 
Venus is the lord of the 4th and the 9th. As the 9th is the best 
trine, he is relieved of blemish due to angular lordship. The 
Sun is termed as a killer as he rules the 7th, a maraka house. 
(Saturn plays a similar rol£ for Leo ascendant owning the 7th 
in Moolatrikona). Jupiter ruling the 2nd and Mars owning the 
3rd are also killers. Out of the 3 killers, Mars is the last in 
order. A strong relationship between two or all of these three 
killers will affect the longevity to decline severely. Mercury 
ruling the 5th and the 8th will give mixed results. If Mercury 
joins an adverse planet, he will be essentially adverse while in 



356 Brihat Parasara ttora Sastra 

joining Venus or Saturn, he can considerably improve. Alone 
in bad houses, he will be evil and in good houses he will be 
favourable. This is how Mercury’s role for this ascendant need 
be understood. 

<TTVT \ 

43-44. PISCES ASCENDANT : Saturn, Venus, the Sun 
and Mercury are matefics. Mars and the Moon are auspicious. 
Mars and Jupiter will cause a yoga. Though Mars is a killer, 
he will not kill the native (independently), Saturn and Mercury 
are killers. Thus should be judged the effects for a Pisces 
native. 

Notes : Saturn owns two evil houses for Pisces ascendant. 
Hence he will reveal himself most awefuily. Venus rules the 
3rd and 8th— again two evil houses. And hence he is not a 
favourable planet. The Sun ruling the 6th will prove adverse 
though he has good terms with the lord of the ascendant, Jupiter 
Mars is the lord of the 2nd (Moolatrikona) and the 9th (the 
best of the trines). Inspite of owning a killer-house, he has been 
specifically exempt from acting as a killer independently and 
placed in the yogakaraka list. To be a killer. Mars must be 
instigated by another killer, viz. Saturn or Mercury. Jupiter is 
a very favourable planet (of course next to Mars) owning the 
ascendant and the 10th. Though there is no specific mention 
of Venus becoming a killer in such role can be seen in him as he 
owns the 8th house. 

*J*Tt*«T*TO?* * 

# t 

45-46. GENERAL ; Thus the auspicious and inauspicious 
effects derivable through the planets due to their lordships 
according to the rising sign be estimated. Apart, the effects 



Chapter 35 357 

due to Nabhasa yogas etc. be also known which I narrate as 
under. 

Notes : The good disposition, bad disposition and killing 
powers of the various placets are assigned by the sage on a 
particular understanding of lordships etc. for each of the 12 
ascendants. From the current two verses, we take an important 
clue about the final role of a planet. To wit, if a planet is 
constituent of a favourable yoga, like, say, Daamini Yoga (one 
of the Nabhasa Yogas'), his original malefic tendency of being 
an adverse planet for a particular ascendant, he will give the 
effects of Daamini yoga and thus will become a Rajayogakaraka. 
Conversely, although a planet assumes good role by lordship, 
if he is involved in a bad yoga, like, say, Sarpa yoga (one of the 
Nabhasa yogas again) there will only be adverse results and not 
favourable results due to lordship. These causes should be 
properly estimated and effects denoted suitably. A killer is a 
killer irrespective of his having become a Rajayogakaraka or so. 
Killer and Yogakaraka should not be mixed together in respect 
of one and the same planet. 


spt jwmuhnsura: i»3*u 

Chapter 35 

Nabhasa Yogas 

^rtrai iftai: fssrarUT ! i 

ifttn UcHId gti | 
STTffafarcfff: ?T^ir: ?FcT tftm: U^ll 

1-2. O excellent of the Brahmins, explained below are 32 
Nabhasa yogas which have a total of 1800 different varieties. 
These consist of 3 Asraya yogas, 2 Dala yogas, 20 Akriti yogas, 
and 7 Sankhya yogas. 



358 


Brihat Parasara Mora Sastra 

Notes i No additional notes and explanations are being 
given in the present volume on the following chapters : 

Nabhasa yogas (ch, 35) 

Lunar yogas (ch. 37) 

Solar yogas (ch. 38) 

These have been fully discussed and annotated in a cleat 
manner in my English translations of Saravali and Horasara. 
The reader may refer to the said works. 

«ITf'T^q^ a VII 

a?OT?3f§ * *rg??#f?T fanfir uxu 

IWI-¥e^V*TR-qW-%*T*-5T?Tq>T: \ 

g*r> n>nra gqm ^trfaen ! n^n 

3-6. NAMES OF NABHASA YOGAS ; Asraya yogas are 
Rajju, Musala and Nala yogas. Dala yogas are Maala 
and Sarpa. The twenty Akriti yogas are : Geda, Sakata, 
Sringataka, Vihanga, Hala, Vajra, Yava, Kamala, Vaapi, Yupa, 
Sara, Sakthi, Danda, Nauka, Koota, Chatra, Dhanushi ''or 
Chapa), Ardhachandra, Chakra and Samudra yogas. The seven 
Sankhya yogas are Vallaki, Daama, Paasa, Kedara, Sooia, 
Yuga and Gola yogas. Thus these are 32 in total. 

^ *tjcn: uvsu 

7. RAJJU, MUSALA AND NALA YOGAS : All the 
planets in movable signs cause Rajju yoga. All the planets in 
fixed signs cause Musala yoga. All the planets in dual signs 
cause Nala yoga. 

^HT?*n?rnj3tnT^ft vpmnnRTsNt usu 



359 


Chapter 35 

8. MAALA AND SARPA YOGAS : If 3 angles are 
occupied by benefics Maala yoga is produced while malefics so 
placed will cause Bhujanga or Sarpa yoga. These yogas respect- 
ively produce benefic and malefic results. 

Sit+d ?P f »T'»l Hill 
tftn: *n?II?«T5T?PI:folS: 1 

3T ^iTRia faqftiTW It; oil 

5PH3nmft«I#: ffM 1 : «ITqn^: | 

rftrft TOfro: Slt^rT: n?<u 

9-11. GAD A, SAKATA, VIHAGA, SR1NGATAKA , II ALA, 
VAJRA AND YAVA YOGAS : If all the planets occupy two 
successive angles, Gada yoga is formed. Sakata yoga occurs 
when all the planets are disposed in the ascendant and the 7th 
house. If all confine to the 4th and the 10th, then Vihaga yoga 
occurs. All planets in the ascendant, 5th and 9th cause 
Sringataka yoga while all planets are in the 2nd, 6th and the 
10 th or in the 3rd, 7th and 1 1th or in the 4th, 8th and 12th 
cause Halayoga. Vajra yoga is caused by all benefics in the 
ascendant and the 7th or all malefics in the 4th and 10th. In a 
contrary situation, i.e. all benefics in the 4th and the 10th or all 
malefics in the ascendant and the 7th, Yava yoga is generated. 

12. KAMALA AND VAPI YOGAS : If all the planets are 
in the 4 angles, Kamala yoga is produced. If all of them 
be in all the cadent houses or in all the succedent houses Yapi 
yoga occurs. 

q-qt i 

13. YUPA, SARA, SAKTHI AND DANDA YOGAS : If 
all the 7 planets are in the 4 houses commencing from the ascen- 
dant they cause Yupa yoga. If a similar occupation commences 



360 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


from the 4th house Sara yoga, from the 7th bouse Sakthi yoga 
and from the IOth house Danda yoga are formed- 

S’RTH qqrqq?i> VI STPUT: I 

qqfinlq qri q^qR wqq: II?V|| 

14. NAUKA, KOOTA, CRATRA AND CHAPA YOGAS : 
If all the planets occupy the seven houses from the ascendant, 
Nauka yoga occurs. Koota yoga, Chatra yoga and Chapa yoga 
occur respectively when the commencing houses are the 4th, 7th 
and 10th. Here again the planets should occupy seven 
continuous houses. 





q^qqsqqigsqjl | 

Hgs: TOq^lfaq \[\V\ 


15. CHAKRA AND SAMUDRA YOGAS : If all the 
planets occupy six alternative signs commencing from the 
ascendant, Chakra yoga is formed. Samudra yoga is produced 
if these occupy similarly six alternative signs commencing from 
the 2nd from the ascendant. 


qTTTffifawnfsft gqmt feqqftqq: i 

f?TRiT: sfhRT: q^qq: ||{^|| 

trmr q^q^xf^q: 1 

“fan qq*qq; qqfq^Tqqfsftfrqiq n^n 

16-17 SANKHYA YOGAS : If all planets are in one 
sign Gola yoga is formed. Similarly if all are in 2 signs, Yuga 
yoga, 3 signs Soola yoga, 4 signs Kcdara Yoga, 5 signs Paasa 
yoga, 6 signs Dama yoga and 7 signs Veena yoga is produced. 
None of these seven yogas will be operable, if another Nabhasa 
yoga explained earlier is derivable. 

• SreqfqqT: <Rtq?qT?*qqTfqqt qf^T: l 

%X1: Rq*qqrqT q*T qrfqi-n: 

18. EFFECTS OF NABHASA YOGAS (upto sloka 50) 
RAJJU YOGA : One born in Rajju yoga will be fond of wander- 
ing, be charming, will earn in foreign countries, and be cruel 
and mischievous. 



Chapter 35 36l 

*?iHsnHU5ira«f*RTT imfwn: ?urai: i 

■o rs 

^«TT: forcfartt t^FRTHgcTT ?RT: 11^11 

19. MUSA LA YOGA : One born in Musala yoga will be 
endowed wiih honour, wisdom, wealth etc., be dear to king, 
famous, will have many sons and be firm in disposition. 

u^ou 

20. NALA YOGA : One born in Nala yoga will have 
uneven physique, be interested in accumulating money, very 
skilful, helpful to relatives, and charming. 

fact? g^TSlUT^T 1 

fjPrTT graftal *rmmf ^snjeu: *5: ir?ii 

21. MAALA YOGA : One born in Maala yoga will be 
ever happy, endowed with conveyances, robes, food and 
pleasures, be splendorous and endowed with many females. 

faqrrr: awi 1 

nqawi twfar *ttt: u^n 

22. SARPA YOGA : One born in Sarpa (Bhujanga) yoga 
will be crooked, cruel, poor, miserable and will depend on 
others for food and drinks. 

inSTH: 1 

HgWcTT *TT*WT TORT g H ^ ? 1 1 

23 GAD A YOGA : One bom in Gada yoga will always 
make efforts to earn wealth, will perform sacrificial rites, be 
skilf ul in Sastras and songs and endowed with wealth, gold 
and precious stones 

TtlUrl; JTOl ijtsf: I 

TPfJ STItTI 11^*11 

24. SAKATA YOGA : One born in Sakata yoga will be 

afflicted by diseases, will have diseased or ugly nails, be foolish, 



362 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 

will live by pulling carts, be poor and devoid of friends and 
relatives. 

^TT: \ 

qR^fsnrrcsr far* 5fim:iRK.n 

25. VI HAG A YOGA : One born in V hag a yoga will be 
fond of roaming, be a messenger, will live by sexual dealings, 
be shameless and interested in quarrels. 

fsmsTST: fon t: *T*Tf:<W: 1 

31TW gq%|cin: *Z^fTSqR*W II^N 

26. SRINGATAKA YOGA : One born in Sringataka yoga 
will be fond of quarrels and battles, be happy, dear to king, 
endowed with an auspicious wife, be rich and will hate women. 

sngifsRl *frsT: i 

RW: qcqt: W gw: ll^ll 

27. II ALA YOGA : One born in Hala yoga will eat a lot, 
be very poor, be a farmer, be miserable, agitated, given up by 
friends and relatives and be a seryant. 

aTHFrTsmtgteR: 5TTT: fPTl faf^rTT*: 1 

28. VAJRA YOGA : One born in Vajra yoga will be 
happy in the beginning and at the end of life, be valorous, 
charming, devoid of desires and fortunes and be inimical. 

3RK: f freffr rTT qwftnTOT: *RT §W: 113 £11 

29. YAVA YOGA : One born in Yava yoga will observe 
fasts and other religious rules, will do auspicious acts, will 
obtain happiness, wealth and sons in his mid-iife, be charitable 
and firm. 

farqfTpiTSsn: gw: fegsrwfcfajrST: l 

URSTIRT: RW faRtf ll^oH 



Chapter 35 


363 


30. KAMALA YOGA : One born in Kamala yoga will be 
rich and virtuous, be long-lived, very famous, pure, will perform 
hundreds of auspicious acts and be a king. 

fafaqrrvr fagurfam fartmqsmgm i 

mttqarorg 6?r ttsth: it 3 \ t a 

31'. V API YOGA : One born in Vapi yoga will be capable 
of accumulating wealth, be endowed with lasting wealth, and 
happiness and sons, be free from eye afflictions and be a king. 

f?*UT g<T: 1 

5Krf?ra*RcT*Tgnft ^ snat faf fere yg n^n 

32. YU PA, YOGA : One born in Yupa yoga will have 
spiritual knowledge, be interested in sacrificial rites, endowed' 
with a wife, be strong, interested in fasts and other religious 
observations and be distinguished. 

sgtnn *im*T i 

33. SARA YOGA : One born in Sata yoga will make 
arrows, be head of prison, will earn through animals, will cat 
meat and indulge in torture and mean handiworks. 

JW: i 

JUcUi 3M: mrtTT: H^n 

34. SAKTH / YOGA : One born in Sakthi yoga will be 
bereft of wealth, be unsuccessful, miserable, mean, lazy, long- 
lived, interested and skilful in war, firm and auspicious. 

^ faf «TT: i 

35. DANDA YOGA : One born in Danda yoga will lose 
his sons and wife, be indigent, unkind, away from his men, 
miserable and will serve mean people. 

§t2T: I 

f*T*TT JTfvHT HTOT WHi: gwf: 



m 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastrc 


36. NA UKA YOGA : One born in Nauka yoga will derive 
his livelihood through water, be wealthy, famous, wicked, 
wretched, dirty and miserly. 

fafafJSitiTT: *T5T: ^TT: \ 

wrf^cT faftgifaifirsft nfsnru^u 

37. KOOTA YOGA : One born in Koota yoga will be a 
liai, will head a jail, be poor, crafty, cruel and will live in hills 
and fortresses. 

pj3f!TT«ItT> | 

51^5^ *T3TOT?T WRJ Instil 

38. CHATRA YOGA : One bom in Chatra yoga will help 
his own men, be kind, dear to many kings, very intelligent, be 
hapny at the beginning and end of his life and be long-lived. 

^Tcn tRTiqf^^T: «TOt*Tti* HH<1 

39. CHAPA YOGA : One born in Chapa yoga will be a 
liar, will protect secrets, be a thief, be fond of wandering in 
forests, be devoid of luck and be happy in the middle of his 
life. 


jTRnntor g^fsrm i 
*fav5T*rijti'»Tg?n *r«rfai ifrfcsTOtsihiYon 

40. ARDHA CHANDRA YOGA : One born in Ardha 
Chandra Yoga will lead an army, will possess a splendorous 
body, be dear to king, be strong and endowed with gems, gold 
and ornaments. 

h*?ii 

41. CHAKRA YOGA : One born in Chakra yoga will be 
an emperor at whose feet will be the prostrating kings’ heads 
adoring gem-studded diadems. 



Chapter 35 


365 


aTSFTfaHT: flgfn 1 

stfercrgwT: ^qr: ft«Rf*wn: my^h 

42. SAMUDRA YOGA : One born in Samudra yoga will 
have many precious stones and abundant wealth, be endowed 
with pleasures, dear to people, will have firm wealth and be 
well-disposed. 

fsnnffcnj?*wrarT fNg«n: i 

*Tf ^falTST qftfaeTT: piJT: ||Y^|| 

4.3 VEENA YOGA : One born in Veena yoga will be 
fond of songs, dance and musical instruments, be skilful, happy, 
wealthy and be a leader of men. 

*t^r: stira: \ 

44. DAAMINI YOGA : One born in Daamini yoga will be 
helpful to others, will have righteously earned wealth, be very 
affluent, famous, will have many sons and gems, be courageous 
and red-lettered. 

q|Tnftrjfl faritaT qggem: tFga wm uykii 

45. RASA YOGA : One bom in Pasa yoga will be liable 

to be imprisoned, be skilful in work, be deceiving in disposition, 
will talk much, be bereft of good qualities and will have many 
servants. • 

frijtaRT: Hrtrcrf^T: am: I 
CTgrilSM'1¥'tvn3T BRiJwt: IIY^M 

46. KEDARA YOGA : One born in Kedara yoga will be 
useful to many, be an agriculturist, be truthful, happy, fickle- 
minded and wealthy. 

CTcprar htt: inrvsn 



366 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


47. SOOLA YOGA : One born in Soola yoga will be 
sharp, indolent, bereft of wealth, be torturous, prohibited, 
valiant, and famous through war. 

ST OST%TT ST sf^Cf^TT vftfc I 
^tTSTSSinTTf^rTT gTTtfW ^ STT 3TTST: ItYcll 

48. YUGA YOGA : One born in Yuga yoga will be 
heretic, be devoid of wealth, be discarded by others, and be 
devoid of sons, mother and virtues. 

SHTTfScTT fS3ST fSOTfSjTTSSf^ *Tf?TST I 
fSrS g:faSS>ST *T?rf?rT ?TCT: I ITT £.11 

49. GOLA YOGA : One born in Gola yoga will be strong, 
be devoid of wealth, learning and intelligence, be dirty, sorrow- 
ful and miserable. 

Hsfesfa ^vTsifsH: i 

srrfaHTfafo fs^sr: srssf?cT hsumt: niton 

50. Ancestors say that the results due to the said (Nabhasa) 
yogas will be felt throughout, in all the Dasa periods. 


frfarataTRrra: u^n 


Chapter 36 

Many Other Yogas 

$ 71 % !?TTT*T% JTt*T: W 'TPTg^SST'fT: ( 

4 S» O 'S 4 

STTtTfStT: *HT: 'TTC: ST?TTSTFT?fhl?ll 

=TF*ft ^TTTtvT^r^r^: | 

qrw»rf tRnrgsft u?u 

1-2. BENEFIC & MALEFIC YOGAS : If there be a benefic 
in the ascendan*. Subha yoga is produced while a malefic therein 



Chapter 36 


367 

causes Asubha yoga. Similarly benclics in both the 12th and the 
2nd cause Subha yoga. Malefics in both the 12th and the 2nd 
also cause Asubha yoga. One born in Subha yoga will be 
eloquent, charming and virtuous while his counterpart will be 
sensuous, will do sinful acts and will enjoy (or swallow) others’ 
wealth. 

Notes : Subha yoga is of two kinds. It can be formed by 
a single benefic in the ascendant. It can also be formed by a 
benefic in the 2nd and by another simultaneously in the 12th. 
Obviously the latter Subha Yoga is still superior. (Needless to 
mention that if the ascendant, 2nd and 1 2th are simultaneously 
occupied by 3 benefics, even then Subha Yoga of a very great 
order is established.) This yoga gives physical beauty, excellent 
virtues and eloquent disposition. Though the text does not 
mention, additional effects are : a happy life, health, wealth, 
longevity, fame etc These additional effects will not fully mature 
by a single ordinary benefic in the ascendant. 

A malefic or malefics in these places will produce 
Asubha Yoga or inauspicious yoga. Each yoga is increasingly 
malefic. As a result, the subject will be libidinous, will indulge 
in unethical and sinful deeds and be capable of bracketing 
others possessions. While a single malefic may not give so 
bad results, two or three in such positions will indeed produce 
most unfavourable results, apart from affecting health, longevity 
etc. adversely. 

Needless to mention that in analysing the results due to 
good or bad combinations, one should take the planet’s dignity, 
strength, relations with other planets and many such other 
factors into consideration. A malefic yoga can be nullified by 
other compensating factors while a good yoga may not be 
productive of expected good results when involved in adverse 
circumstances. For example, assume that for an Aquarius 
Mercury is in the 2nd house while Jupiter is in the 12th house. It 
will be detrimental to rush to the conclusion that the ascendant 
is surrounded by two benefies, and that Subha yoga results will 
improve the native. Conversely, this is worse than a typical 
Asubha Yoga. 

Again take Asubha Yoga. Assume Virgo rises while 
Saturn is in exaltation in the 2nd and the Sun is in Leo in the 



Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


368 

12th. This need not be dubbed as Asubha Yoga. These two 
maiefics have their own merits and will prove favourable to the 
native. 

This extension may wisely be made for every yoga— good 
or bad— and in every context throughout the analysis of the 
geniture. Only then will an agreeable picture emerge. 

*T*r%*Tt u^n 

3***^ TT^firwd lt*U 

3-4. GAJAKESARI YOGA : Should Jupiter be in an 
angle from the ascendant or from the Moon, and be conjunct or 
aspected by (another) benefic, avoiding at the same time debilit- 
ation, combustion and inimical sign, Gajakesari yoga is caused. 
One born in Gaja Kesari yoga will be splendorous, wealthy, 
intelligent endowed with many laudable virtues and will please 
the king. 

Notes i The Parasari type of Gaja Kesari Yoga is 
constructed on a different footing. That Jupiter-Moon should 
be in mutual angles is a normally accepted yoga under this name. 
In my opinion this kind of angularity cannot yield supreme 
effects. The case of mere of Jupiter being in exaltation in a lunar 
angle can better be known as Paacha Maba Purusha Yoga, 
specifically Hamsa Yoga. In other cases the angularity between 
the two need not be given the name Gaja Kesari. In point of 
fact, the Moon-Jupiter mutual angular placement is called as 
simply Kesari Yoga, vide Phala Deepika, Ch. 6, sloka 14 etc. 
The effects given are : “The native will destroy the band of his 
enemies. He will be a lofty speaker in an assembly and will 
serve a king. He will 1 e long lived and famous. He will be 
intelligent’’. 

Referring to Jataka Parijata, there are two kinds of Gaja 
Kesari yogas mentioned therein. The first kind is formed by 
Jupiter being in an angle from the Moon. This is the common 
type of Yoga. Second alternative is : The Moon should be 
aspected by Mercury or Venus or Jupiter while the aspecting 
planet is free from debilitation and combustion. 



369 


Chapter 36 

Kumara Swameeyam a popular Tamil classic Pas this yoga 
stating that the Moon should be increasing (i.e. waxing) while 
Jupiter should be in the 4th or io the 10th from the said Moon. 
This comes to pass when a constituent is in Taurus, Pisces 
Aquarius or Sagittarius. To wit, Gaja Kesari Yoga is applicable 
to only four placements That is, Jupiter should be in Aquarius 
while the Moon is in Taurus, or vice versa. Alternatively the 
Moon shoud be in Sagittarius while Jupiter is io Pisces, or vice 
versa. Please note that even Cancer is omitted which is 
exaltation sign for Jupiter and own sign for the Moon. In 
making such a specific statement, the author of Kumara 
Swameeyam must obviously have possessed an unparalleled 
authority. 

Then we come to the Tamil translation of Parasara Hora 
by C.G. Rajan. His version states that the Moon and Jupiter 
should be in mutual angles, but the Moon should not have 
Mercury in the 5th from her, nor should she be in aspect to 
Mercury so that the Yoga obtained is not simultaneously given 
annulment. Further the Moon should be free from combustion 
and debilitation. 

The Sanskrit edition of Parasara Hora of Sri Venkateswara 
Press, Bombay, has it in such a manner making it clear that 
Vaidyanatha of Jataka Parjjata did take these verses from 
Parasara. (In fact many of the Raja Yogas given in our current 
chapter have been used by other works like Phala Deepika, 
Kumara Swameeyam, Sata Yoga Manjari, Jataka Parijata etc ). 
Coming back to Gaja Kesari yoga given by the Bombay series, 
we find that the Jupiter-Moon mutual angularity finds place in 
the first kind of yoga as given by Vaidyanatha while the second 
version of Vaidyanatha occurs in the Bombay series in a different 
guise. It is stated there that Mercury aspecting or joining the 
Moon, not placed in debilitation nor being combust causes this 
yoga. In the second yoga, Venus and Jupiter are not given any 
place. 

However, the two yogas given by Vaidyanatha are exactly 
identical with the ones given in Parasara Hora of Thakur Prasad 
Pustaka Bhandar edition from Varanasi. 

The Chaukambha edition does not differ from our version. 



370 


Brlltat Parasara Hora Sastra 


Thus, I have placed all the different versions of Gaja 
Kesari Yoga before the reader. Though the name does not 
deserve any special consideration as for Gaja Kesari yoga, I 
would give less importance to the mere angular positions of 
Jupiter-Moon. From other formations, we may understand that 
Raja Yoga results will prevail in the following conditions in a 
descending order. 

1. As given in Kumara Swanteeyam. 

2. As given in Chaukambha edition and our edition. 

3. The second kind of yoga given by Jataka Parijata. 

4. The second kind of yoga given by Bombay edition of 
Parasara Hora. 

But, we do not understand the basis of C.G, Rajan why 
Mercury should not aspect the Moon or be in the 5th from her. 
Contrarily when Jupiter and the Moon are in mutual angles. 
Mercury in the 5tb from the Moon will be an impetus to 
Gaja Kesari rather than becoming an impediment. 

Gaja Kesari yoga formed in any of the four manners 
suggested above will give wealth, fame etc. in the Dasa periods 
of Jupiter, Moon and planets related to them. There is also a 
school of thought that one bom in Kesari yoga will be rich in 
the dasa of Venus. 

m fr tffwwn i 

qOltKM'dciKtf uy.li 

mOm«iO srefan \\\\\ 

5-6. AMALA YOGA : If there be exclusively a benefic in 
the 10th from the ascendant or the Moon, Amala yoga exists. 
Amala yoga will confer fame lasting till the moon and stars exist 
and will make the native honoured by the king, enjoy abundant 
pleasures, be charitable; fond of relatives, helpful to others, 
pious and virtuous. 

Notes : The 10th house from the Moon or from the 
ascendant should contain a benefic and be without a malefic 
occupation. If a malefic joins in the 10th simultaneously, the 
efficacy of the yoga will be void. A pure Amala Yoga gives 
name and fame lasting for decades and decades. Wealth is not 



371 


Chapter 36 

indicated as a result of the yoga by the sage. Phala Deepika 
for example denotes wealth for this position. 

It may be noted for what it is worth that the yogas 
mentioned by Bhava positions should be reckoned with reference 
to Bhava chart while dignity of the participant planets will 
depend on their sign position. An example chart for Amala 
Yoga is given below whose owner was born on 16th May, 1959 
at 1 1 gh 29vi at 26N29 80E2 1 . 


Ketu 

17-36 

Merc 

12-18 

Sun 

1-17 

Mars 

27-17 

Ven 

12-57 


■ 

Rasi 

Asc 

6-09 


Moon 

5-29 

Sat 

13-06 

Jup 

4-10 


Rahu 

17-36 


This horoscope of a female was given by me in Doctr ines 
of Snka Nadi-Retold on p. 37 in different context. There is a 
clear cut Amala Yoga caused by Mercury in the 10th from 
ascendant. Note that there is no planet accompanying Mercury, 
nor is there any adverse aspect on him. Further, there is an 
exchange between Mars and Mercury. This augurs the good 
effects of the yoga in the matter of wealth. As stated in 
Doctrines of Suka Nadi-Retold, the native started a business in 
the United States in sub period of Mercury during the major 
period of Venus. She has a well-settled show making steady 
progress. 

IIV9II 





372 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


4RTT * *TTC*fiRT I 

^TFnfs»*ft dTTpft ^ forest 5T?IT«W>: Hml 

7-8. PARVATA YOGA : Benefics in angles will produce 
Parvatha yoga, as the 7th and 8th are vacant or are occupied by 
only benefics. One bom in Parvatha yoga will be wealthy, 
eloquent, charitable, learned in Sastras, fond of mirth, famous, 
splendorous and be the leader of a city. 

Notes : This yoga is formed at least in many ways accord- 
ing to different classical authors. 

1. According to our version, there need be benefics in 
angles while the 7th and 8th are unoccupied or be in occupation 
hy benefits alone. Then the yoga formed is known as Parvataa 
yoga. 

2. The Tamil edition of Parasara Hora (translated by C.G. 
Rajan) has this yoga in two manners : That is, Benefics in 
angles and 6th and 8th. Alternatively benefics should be in 
angles and 9th. 

3. The Sanskrit edition of Sri Venkateswara Press gives this 
yoga again in two forms thus ; (I) As per our version. (2) The 
lords of the ascendant and of the 12th in mutual angles and be 
aspected by friendly planets. These two are exactly followed by 
Sata Yoga Manjari (English translation by Prof. B. S. Rao). 

4. Whereas the Sanskrit text of Sata Manjari Raja yoga 
(Hindi translation by Pt. G.K. Ojha) puts it thus : The 
depositor of ascendant lord should be in his own sign or in his 
Moolatrikona sign which is identical with an angle or a trine 
reckoned from the ascendant. Pbala Deepika exactly describes 
this yoga in this very manner. 

5. Coming to Jatakadesa Marga, we find yet another 
version thus : If the ascendant, 4th, 7th and 10th are occupied 
by planets while the 8th and 12th are unoccupied, Parvata Yoga 
occurs. There is no mention of benefics or malefics in angles. 
That is these houses should remain occupied. Horasara (p. 233) 
has an identical version. 

6. Chaukambha edition has it as given by C G. Rajan's 
first mentioned yoga. 

7. The edition of Thakur Prasad Pustak Bhandar describes 
this yoga as per our version. 



Chapter 36 373 

8, Now see Jataka Parijata. It has again two forms of 
this Yoga. The first one is formed in a manner identical with 
one mentioned in the Tamil version of P&rasara Horn. The 
second type is formed as per the second yoga related to Bombay 
series of Parasara Hora. However, the Tamil version of Jataka 
Parijata (1926 edition by Sastra San ieevani Press) has it as our 
text has. 

9. A version of Yavanas forms this yoga thus : The 
ascendant, 7th and 10th be occupied by benefics. So simple and 
no more pre-requisites. Note the 4th among angles is omitted 
by Yavanas. Thus there are so many varieties of Parvata Yoga. 

When we consider the version given in our text, the 
maturity of this yoga will be during the Dasa periods of the 
beDefics in the angles. 

neu 

bwdiuiR moll 

9-10. KAHALA YOGA : Should the 4th lord and Jupiter 
be in mutual angles while the ascendant lord is strong, Kahala 
yoga occurs. Alternatively the 4th lord being in his own or 
exaltation sign should be conjunct the 10th lord, in effect, the 
native will be energetic, adeventurous, cunning, endowed with a 
complete army consisting of chariots, elephants, horses and 
infantry and will lord over a few villages. 

Notes : This yoga is given identically in the other three 
versions of Parasara Hora, viz. Veokateswara, Chaukamba 
and Thakur Prasad editions. Still others define this in different 
ways. 

1. The first type of Kahala Yoga according to the Tamil 
version translated by C G. Rajan is formed when the lords of 
the ninth and fourth are in mutual angles as the ascendant lord 
is endowed with strength. The second type of yoga mentioned 
by him is formed if the 4th lord is in his own sign or in exaltation 
in conjunction with or in aspect to the 10th lord. The aspect of 
the 10th lord is an addition in the Tamil version whereas in our 
version only a conjunction is noted. The native being foolish is 



374 Brlhat Parasara Bora Sastra 

mentioned in the Tamil issue and Bombay issue, when giving 
effects of Kahala Yoga. 

2. Mantreswara has it entirely differently thus : The 
dispositor of ascendant lord’s depositor should be in exaltation 
or own sign identical with a trine or angle reckoned from the 
ascendant. The effects mentioned are : prosperity, nobility, 
auspiciousness, benevolence and kindness. 

3. Jetakadsa Marga mentions it in the same way as per 
C. G. Rajan's first type of yoga. Jataka Parijata follows 
Jatakadesa Marga while it adds the second version of Kahala 
Yoga given by our text. 

lit tH 

TT^fT «fT 91 9 *lfa2tT: I 

91 *919* 99: Ut^l* 

11-12. CHAMARA YOGA : If the ascendant lord is exalted 
in an angle and be aspected by Jupiter, Chamara yoga is formed. 
This yoga also occurs if two benefits are in the ascendant, or 9th, 
or 10th or 7th. The effects of Chamara Yoga are : the native will 
be a king or honoured by the king, long-lived, scholarly, 
eloquent and versed in all arts. 

Notes : While most texts are identical with our version, 
Phala Deepika puts it in a different way, viz. the ascendant be 
occupied by a benefic while the ascendant lord is in a good 
house or in exaltation. The effects attributed by Mantreswara 
are ‘. long life, prospering like increasing Moon, fame, virtue and 
leadership. These are comparable [to what is generally stated- 
for Chamara Yoga. 

99% «J9-9G39t %9Pl"\ f%9: I 

9919: mifc \ 

13-14. SANKHA YOGA : If the ascendant lord is strong 
as the lords of the 5th and 6th are in mutual angles, then what 
is known as Sankha yoga is produced. Alternatively if the 



Chapter 36 375 

ascendant lord along with the 10th lord is in a movable sign as 
the 9th lord is strong, Sankha yoga is obtained. One born with 
Sankha yoga will be endowed with wealth, spouse and sons, 
be kindly disposed, propitious, intelligent, meritorious and long- 
lived. 

MXt W\: l 

asrSr *r aft \\\w 

5fT^T7^lR W>»ft 'RTNft't ^rl II 
^ \ <• * 

15-16. BHERl YOGA : If the 12th, ascendant, 2nd and 
7th are occupied as the 9th lord is strong, the native obtains 
Bheri yoga. Again another kind of Bheri yoga is formed if 
Venus, Jupiter and the lord of the ascendant are in an angle 
while the 9th lord is strong. The results of Bheri yoga are the 
native will be endowed with wealth, wife and sons, be a king, be 
famous, virtuous and endowed with good behaviour, happiness 
and pleasures. 

IRvf ^ I 

snefto tijtfi *r 

17. A 1R1DANGA YOGA : If the ascendant lord is strong 
as others occupy angles, trines, own houses or exaltation signs, 
Mridanga yoga is formed. The native concerned will be a king 
or equal to a king and be happy. 

ippnrt wuimMh i 

Ul»T: 3TTeT: IPWTCt iff: 11*511 

18. SRINATHA YOGA : If the 7th lord is in the 10th 
while the 10th lord is exalted and be in the company of the 9tb 
lord, Srinatha yoga takes place. The native with this yoga will 
be equal to lord Devendra (the god of gods). 

Notes : For Sagittarius ascendant, this yoga is simply 
formed if the Sun and Mercury are in the 10th in Virgo. But 
it is to be ensured that Mercury is in the first half of Virgo. 



376 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 

VflW gmr m % 

vHt gT> w 5% ?rm ■er *rrc?: ii^h 

trofsw I 

rT'TF-qt WR% 5fTOt 5PT: M^oU 

19-20. SARADA YOGA .‘ Should the 10th lord be in the 
5th while Mercury is in an angle as the Sun with strength is in 
Leo, Sarda Yoga is formed. This will again obtain if Jupiter or 
Mercury is in a trjne to the Moon, while Mars is in the 1 lth. 
One born in either kind of yoga will obtain wealth, spouse and 
sqns, be happy, scholarly, dear to king, pious and virtuous. 

*n* * cftntsir Ha-imsw: i^?u 

*er *r?FnfttT fjj u^n 

21-22. MATSYA YOGA : Benefics in the 9th and the 
ascendant, mixed planets in the 5th and malefics in the 4th and 
8th — this array of planets at birth will produce Matsya yoga. 
In effect, the native will be an astrologer, be a synonym of 
kindness, be virtuous, strong, beautiful, famous, learned and 
pious. 

Notes : While our version and that of Chaukambha 
mention that the ascendant and the 9th be occupied by benefic 
planets, the versions of Sri Venkateswara Press, Thakur Prasad 
Pustaka Bhandar and C. G. Rajan stipulate that malefics and 
not benefics should be in the ascendant and the 9th. Jakata 
Parijata has the same view as given by the latter group requiring 
malefics in the 9th and in the ascendant. 

That it is benefics that should be in the ascendant and the 
9th is obviously correct as three groups are selected by Parasaa 
for this yoga, thus : Benefics in the first group, malefics in the 
second group and both (i.e. mixed) in the 3rd group. 

f*HT*JhPT*n: TITT: U^U 



Chapter 36 


377 


^ ITsft *IRSRniV: 

23-24. KOORMA YOGA : If the 5th, 6th and the 7th 
are occupied by benefic planets identical with own house or 
exaltation or friendly sign while malefics are in the 3rd 1 Ith and 
the ascendant in own house or in exaltation, Koorma yoga is 
formed. The results of Koorma yoga are : the native will be a 
king, be courageous, virtuous, famous, helpful, happy and be 
leader of men. 


CT¥*Tzrfrr: ft II ^ V.M 

tSTHtftri BRwmig^TfjarfT: t 

25-26. KlIADGA YOGA : Should there be an exchange 
of signs between the lords of the 2nd and the 9th as 
the ascendant lord is in an angle or in a trine Khadga yoga is 
obtainable. One with Khadga yoga wiil be endowed with 
wealth, fortunes and happiness, be learned in sastras, be 
intelligent, mighty, grateful and skilful. 

^mr[ wit ^55^-ERTff^r: i 
tnraft EnTFFTW) 5I5*lhft«T wlFrt ll^ctU 

27-28. LAKSHM1 YOGA ; If the 9th lord is in an angle 
identical with his Moolatrikona sign or own sign or exaltation 
sign while the ascendant lord is endowed with strength, Lakshmi 
yoga occurs. The native with this yoga will be charming, 
virtuous, kingly in status, endowed with many sons and 
abundant wealth, be famous and be of high moral merits. 


*7 flight m iwt an: \ 

$**3^ u^oii 



378 


Brihat Parasara Bora Sastra 


29-30 KUSXJMA YOGA : Venus in an angle, the Moon 
in a trine along with a benefic and Saturn in the 10th— these 
planets thus cause Kusuma yoga for one born in a fixed sign 
ascending. Such a native will be a king or equal to him, be 
charitable, will enjoy pleasures, be happy, prime among his 
race men, virtuous and red-lettered 

fgrfft 1 

W* cTSte? II^II 

5n?ft asrf^mRf^cr: ii^n 

31-32. KALANIDHI YOGA : Should Jupiter be in the 
-2nd or the 5th and be aspected by Mercury and Venus, Kalanidhi 
yoga is caused. In effect, the native will be virtuous, honoured 
by the kings, bereft of diseases, be happy, wealthy and learned. 

%nr vWwfjf 113311 

*Tafaqqq?T> vjcft U*T?f*n SRWtJcT: l 

iTTftsn^ nrt 

33*34. KALPADRUMA YOGA : Note the following four 
planets : (a) the ascendant lord, (.b) the depositor of the 
ascendant lord, (c) the depositor of the planet at "b”, (d) the 
Navamsa depositor of the planet at “c”. If all these are disposed 
in angles and trines from the ascendant, or be exalted, Kalpa- 
druma yoga exists. One with this yoga will be endowed 
with all kinds of wealth, be a king, pious, strong, fond of 
war and merciful. 

Notes : Kalpa Druma yoga is also known as Parijata 
Yoga. Kalpa Druma denotes the Celestial Tree while Parijata 
denotes the Celestial Flower. Both of these are known to 
grant any boon to the possessor who is said to be Devendra, 
the god of gods. 

In the obtainment of yoga, there are four participants. 
This yoga can be noted in the following chart. 

Born on July 23, 1856 at 0612 hrs at 18N32 73E57. 



9 
















m 


Brihat Parasara Horn Sastra 

Now see how Kalpa Drama yoga is formed in the chart 
The constituents of the yoga are : 

(a) The ascendant lord Moon. 

(b) The ascendant lord’s depositor Jupiter. 

(c) Jupiter is in own sign and hence no dispositor. 

(d) Jupiter’s Navamsa dispositor is Jupiter himself as he 
is in Sagittarius Navamsa. 

All the above are in a trine from the natal ascendant 
who clearly form Kalpa-druma yoga. The effects mentioned 
by the sage were obtained by the owner of the chart, Bala 
Gangadhar Tilak, including fondness for war to get the country 
freed from foreign rule. 1 

tot: t 

STTff: ll^|| 

35-36. TRIMURTHI YOGAS : Counted from the 2nd 
lord if benefics occupy the 2nd, 12th and 8th, Hari yoga is 
formed. If the 4th, 9th and 8 th with reference to the sign 
occupied by the 7th lord are occupied by benefics. Ham 
yoga is obtainable. Brahma yoga is generated if, counted from 
the ascendant lord, benefics are in the 4th, 10th and 1 1th 
signs. One born in anyone of the said three yogas will be happy, 
learned and endowed with wealth and sons. 

Notes : There are actually three different yogas given in 
the present two verses. These are Hari Yoga, Hara Yoga 
and Brahma Yoga. This represents the trinity of Hindu Gods 
and hence is known as Trimurthi yogas jointly. Some interpret 
this as one yoga knowing it as ‘Hariharabrahma yoga’ which 
is however incorrect. 

For formation of Hari Yoga the 2nd lord’s position is 
to be noted firstly. From the said position of the 2nd lord, 
each of the 2nd, 12th and 8th be occupied by benefics individu- 
ally. See the chart on the next page. 



Chapter 36 


381 





Merc 

Jup 


Sat 


Hari 

yoga 


Asc 


Ven 






In the above case, the 2nd lord is Saturn. Note from 
Saturn, the 2nd is occupied by Venus, the 12th by Mercury 
and the 8th by Jupiter. 


. 

Sat 



Jup 


Hara yoga 

Asc 




Merc 

Ven 



The second yoga is Hara Yoga (Hara denotes lord 
Siva.) See the chart given above for an easy grasp fulfilling 
the conditions laid down by Parasara. 









382 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


fn tile above case, Saturn rules the 7th house and is 
placed in Pisces. From him the 4th, 8th and 9th are 
respectively occupied by Jupiter, Venus and Mercury. Thus 
forms Hara Yoga. 

Lastly Brahma yoga. This is formed if the 4th, 10th and 
11th from the sign occupied by the ascendant lord are 
tenented by benefits. Note this yoga from the following 
chart. 



Mars 



Merc 



Jup 

Ven' 

Brahma yoga 



Asc 




In the above example, the ascendant lord Mars is in 
Aries. Note that the 4th, 10th and 11th from Mars are 
occupied by Jupiter, Venus and Mercury in order. 

In each yoga, three houses are mentioned, i.e. 2nd 12th 
and 8th on the one hand; 4th, 8th and 9th on the other' hand 
and the 4th, 10th and 11th in the third instance. This takes 
care of possible maximum elongation between Mercury and 
Venus. The Moon can also be considered in replacement of 
one of the said benefics if she is in waxing state. The Sun 
should not participate in these houses just like any malefic. 
If these Moon is herself a malefic her presence is also excluded 
in these yogas. 




Chapter 36 


383 


^TRT^ZtT: flVrq’: I 

Ci > 

^^rrfaift^sf^R *r^T?*n sm^rfor u^vsti 

37. LAGNADHI YOGA : Should bcnefics be in the 7th 
and the 8th counted from the ascendant and be devoid of 
conjunction/aspect of malefics, Lagnadhi yoga is produced 
making one a great person, learned in Sastras and happy. 

Notes : Sage Parasara does not include the 6th house 
from the ascendant for Lagnadhi yoga. Only two houses are 
suggested, viz. the 7th and 8th from the ascendant. This 
is so given in the versions of Chaukamba, Sri Venkateswara 
Press, Thakijr Prasad Pustaka fihandara and C G. Rajan as 
well. The last three versions have an additional condition 
that the 4th house from the ascendant should at the same 
time be vacant. In Cbandradhi yoga, the sage has included 
the 6th house, see ch.37 infra. 

After a study of the various texts, we can conclude to 
the following effect : The 6th, 7th and 8th be occupied by 
benefics in any manner, i.e. the three benches, viz. Jupiter, 
Mercury and Venus may be disposed in one, two or three 
houses in 6th, 7th and 8th. No other malefic should be in these 
houses nor aspect the occupants. The 4th from the ascendant or 
from the Moon, as the case may be, should remain unoccupied. 
Then Adhi yoga is obtained. The benefics mentonied should 
also be free from combustion and debilitation. If the yoga is 
formed in the above conditions, the native will be highly 
learned, wealthy and be among the most supreme men on 
the earth. 

The best Adhi yoga is, however, with Mercury in the 6th, 
Jupiter in the 7th and Venus in the 8th house. 

rftgt SRtrptTlsVt, 

faaH 'TTTFH* ^Nit^ h-^T^T: | 

tsricft 113s.11 

38-39. EFFECTS OF ASCENDANT LORD’S DIVISIO- 
NADIGNITIES : The ascendant lord in Parijathamsa will make 
one happy, in Vargothama immune to diseases, in Gopuramsa 



384 Brihat Parasara ttora Sastra 

rich with wealth and grains, in Simhasanamsa a king, in Parava- 
thamsa a scholar, in Devalokamsa opulent and endowed 
with conveyances, and in Travatamsa famous and honoured by 
Icings. 

Notes : The dignities mentioned above could be found 
on p. 90 supra. Vargothama indicates a planet occupying the 
same Rasi and the same Navamsa. 


am wnmfrrtmra: 

Chapter 37 

Lunar Yogas 

f 5 ||?|| 

I. If the Moon with reference to the Sun is in an angle, 
Panaphara or Apoklima, one’s wealth, intelligence and skill 
will be respectively little, meddling and excellent. 

fPRrr* fcrct srefh 

gtsin a* sn?i> 113 tt 

?T5T STTcft II^M 

2-4. In the case of a day birth if the Moon, placed in 
own Navamsa or in a friendly Navamsa, is aspected by Jupiter, 
one will be endowed with wealth and happiness. One bom 
in night time will enjoy similar effects if the Moon is in own 
Navamsa or in friendly Navamsa in aspect to Venus. In a 
contrary situation, the aspect of Jupiter or of Venus on the 
Moon will make one go with little wealth or even without 
that. 



Chapter 37 38? 

a^Trsn xc drorfriwi iiioi 

5. ADHI YOGA FROM THE MOON : If benefics 
occupy the 8th, 6th and 7th counted from the Moon, Adhi 
yoga obtains. According to the strength of the participating 
planets, the native concerned will be either a king or a minister 
or an army chief. 

■5^ ?pf: I 

gT«ri m\ tr%?ns^£Rt ^nv> 

6. DHANA YOGA : Should all the (three) benefics be 

in Upachaya (i.c. 3rd, 6th, 10th and 11th) counted from 
the Moon, one will be very affluent; with two benefics so 
placed he will have medium effects in regard to wealth. If a 
single benefic is there, the wealth will be negligible. 

fa'll * 

stuo^i: nun 

TpjfT l 

11311 

WtStR 5fl Tt 7T5 ?flvi«il'i l 

C\ "k ^ 

N» « 

3cqR <K5W T 5RT I 

frcmtil tjR l^aTT^ra: u?on 

7-10. SUNAPHA, ANAPHA AND DURADHARA : If 
there is a planet, other than the Sun, in the 2nd from the Moon 
Sunapha yoga, in the 12th Anapha yoga and planets in both 
places Duradhara yoga are caused. One with Sunapha yoga 
will be a king or equal to a king, endowed with intelligence, 
wealth, fame and self earned wealth. One born in Anapha yoga 
will be a king, be free from diseases, virtuous, famous charming 
and happy. One born in Duradhara yoga will enjoy pleasures, 
be charitable and endowed with wealth, conveyances and 
excellent serving force. 



386 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


fRrc<traeRiswHO fan *tr * i 
??iT5Tfirn^i u??n 

ntn: %TT5[*j> 5TTO W* ^I cftsGf Tr f^ : | 

n^u 

frf^T ^3TTN) fajfacT: I 
M4<t l?Hfd mcmT? tig ^lt 

11-13. KEMADRUMA YOGA : Excluding the Sun, should 
there be no planet with the Moon or in the 2nd/ 12th from 
the Moon or in an angle from the ascendant, Kemadruma 
yoga is formed. One born in Kemadruma yoga will be very 
much reproached, be bereft of intelligence and learning and 
reduced to penury and perils. 


Chanter 38 

Solar Yogas 

srafcr fimr vrf fsrTftfa: i 

^ ?ctncT »*« 

I. VESI, VOSI AND UBHAYACHA RJ YOGAS : Barring 
the Moon, if a planet among Mars etc. be in the 2nd from the 
Sun Vesi yoga, in the 12th Vosi yoga and planets in both the 
2nd and the 12th Ubhayachari yoga are caused. 

ticket qwt tfW^mtssmRrfiT \ 

start * rtrg«rt *i?n trortfsrerrarerrefNr: i 

®rcrt **«rt *r am*: 113 n 

2-3. EFFECTS OF THESE YOGAS : One born in Vesi 
yoga will be even sighted, truthful, long-bodied, indolent, happy 



Chapter 39 


387 


and endowed with negligible wealth. One bom with Vosi yoga 
will be skilful, charitable and endowed with fame, learning 
and strength. The Ubhayachari native will be a king or equal to 
a king and be haopy. 

sVr g imi 

4. Benefics causing these yogas will give the above 
mentioned effects while malefics will produce contrary effects. 


3T*T TT3nfoTT«tW: IIHH 


Chapter 39 

Raja Yogas 

SptTTSrT: qESWfrq i fa Mwi ! t 

^ qt»TT: sftaTT: §TT I 

1-2. O excellent of the Brahmins, I now narrate below 
the Rajayogas making one entitled to royal honours. These 
were told to Parvati by Lord Siva once upon a time, the 
gist of which is as follows : 


PaFtT^tT ipTT«Fftf ?TT 5tgvf»%S«rqT ! I 
'CMifl<l«0 ^ SRc^Trf: 1131k 

fllcH*R*bgqivqf q>qiR5 I 

cPfo fe5RRnT ! kMt 



SRRTCT qi <TR q'UrfgflRd: kl*kt 


3-5 These yogas are to be known from the Karakamsa 
ascendant and the natal ascendant. On the one band the 



388 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


pair of Atmakaraka and Putrakaraka and on tbe other hand 
the natal ascendant lord and the 5th lord be considered. 
The effects due to such association will be full, or a half 
or a quarter according to their strengths. 

Notes : Raja Yogas giving status can be formed with 
Karakamsa Lagna as the reckoning point. Similarly the natal 
ascendant is also another center wherefrom such yogas emanate. 
(Karakamsa Lagna is the Navamsa occupied by the Atma 
Karaka planet.) 

If Karakamsa ascendant is oeing considered in eval- 
uation of Raja yogas, the status of Putra Karaka is also 
to be taken into account. Here Putra Karaka is Chara 
Karaka. He is the 6th in status in the Atma Karaka scheme, 
as explained in slokas 13-17 of ch. 32 supra. On the other 
hand if natal ascendant is being considered the 5th lord from 
natal ascendant should also be scrutinized in terms of dignity, 
so that the real clues to the yoga are made out rightly. The 
5th lord has been given a very important position in the analysis 
of Raja Yogas by the sage equating him with the 9th lord 
or even more, vide slokas 33 and 34 of the current chapter. 

We shall now take an expanded clue of the two hints 
given in the present verses about the evaluation of Raja 
yogas. 

There are certain Raja Yogas formed with reference 
to Karakamsa ascendant, Atma Karaka’s position in the Rasi 
chart, Amatya Karaka, Upapada, Arudha pada etc.— so to say 
in the Jaimini style — as can be seen in our present text. For 
example take the rule given in sloka 22 of the current chapter 
where it is stated that Atma Karaka in benefic’s Rasi or 
Navamsa will make one wealthy. In the chart given in 
ch. 29 (sloka 1-3), we have Atma Karaka Moon in Jupiter’s 
Navamsa So as per the rule the native should become 
rich. To strengthen this argument, we find Jupiter in exalta- 
tion. Putra Karaka (Chara scheme) for the said horoscope 
in the Sun. He aspects the ascendant. In the Navamsa chart, 
the Sun is placed in the 4th from Atma Karaka. All these 
indicate that the native should be wealthy. If Putra Karaka 
(Chara) and Karakamsa Lagna are not well related, the yogas 
related to that scheme will be futile. 



Chapter 39 


389 


Next take the natal ascendant lord and the 5th lord from 
the natal ascendant. In assessing the Raja yogas strength ralated 
to the natal ascendant, the strength 'and relationship between 
these two lords should be correctly understood. In the example 
chart cited above, the 5th lord is Jupiter who is exalted and is 
endowed with a Shadbala of 9.32 Rupas and Mars 7.32 Rupas. 
Their Vimsopaka strengths.are respectively 16.45 and 16.80 
points making them extremely well disposed to cause vigour to 
any Raja yoga in the horoscope. 

Hence it is apparent that the sage correlates the Chara 
Putra Karaka with the Karakamsa ascendant (or Atmakaraka) 
and the 5th lord from natal ascendant with the lord of the 
natal ascendant itself. 

fast ! forTU^t 

**>3% *** STSfa I 

srfiTSJTRT: l|v»|| 

6-7 MAHA RAJA YOGA : Should the ascendant 1 ord 
and the 5 th lord exchange their signs or if Atma karaka 
and Putra Karaka (Chara) are in the ascendant, the 5th, 
exaltation sign, own sign or own Navamsa in aspect to a 
benefic, Maha Raja yoga is produced. The native so born 
will be famous and happy. 

Notes : An exchange between the ascendant lord and 
the 5th lord will bestow a supreme Raja yoga on the native. 
For example in the case of a Pisces-born, Jupiter in the 5th 
and the Moon in the ascendant. 

In the second stage, the A tma Karaka and Putra Karaka 
(Chara) are brought in the picture. They can be jointly in 
the 5th or in the ascendant (or in Karakamsa Lagna and 
the 5th from there) or separately in these places. Alternatively, 
both of them should be in their respective exaltation signs, 
or in own signs, or in own Navamsas and be related to a 
benefic by aspect. In this respect, the horoscope of Mrs 
Gandhi will serve us with a perfect example. Her chart can 
be found with reference to sloka 50 in ch. 24 supra. The 
Atma Karaka is Saturn (21° 50') while Putra Karaka is Mercury 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


390 

(13° IT). It may be noted that Saturn is in the ascendant 
while Mercury is in the Sth lifting the native to Himalayan 
heights through the said Maha Raja yoga. Atma Karaka 
Saturn is in his own Navamsa and Merury is in the 10th from 
Karaka msa Lagnn. 

fTT^VT: VTTfft q? I 

qnwftn m i drfl imn 

8. If the ascendant lord and Atmakaraka are in the 
ascendant, 5th or 7th in conjunction with or in aspect to a 
benefic, there obtains a Raja yoga. 

Notes : If the ascendant lord himself becomes theAtma- 
Karaka his mere placement in the ascendant itself or in 
the 5th/7th from the ascendant in association with a benefic 
will cause a similar Raja yoga. In the case of Mrs Gandhi, 
the Atma Karaka is in the ascendant while the ascendant 
lord Moon is in exchange with him in the 7th. The Moon is 
favourably aspected by yoga karaka Jupiter from the llth 
house speaking for the native’s high and successful political 
career. 

§q q qsqr* i 

snift TTsn 

tjrifo qc$q rTT^TT I 

srRTt mn *%tq fro qtci u$oii 

9*10. Should there be benefics in the 2nd, 4th and 5th 
counted either from the ascendant lord or from Atmakaraka 
sign, one will become a king. Similarly malefics in the 3rd 
and 6th from the said places. 

wttfr qr q*qtf 1 

*pqq^ qTsfq Tiqqqf nMrcuttu 

11. One will be related to royal circles if Venus is in 
the kafakamsa, or in the 5th therefrom or in the ascendant 
or in Arudha ascendant in aspect to or in the company of 
Jupiter or the Moon. 



391 


Chapter 3 $. 

Notes : The planet Venus should be in one of the four 
places, viz. Karakamsa ascedant, Arudha ascendant, natal ascend- 
ant and in the 5th from Karakamsa ascendant. (Arudha ascend- 
ant is also known as Arudha Pada, vide ch. 29 supra.) Being 
placed so, Venus must be related to the Moon or Jupiter by 
aspect/association. 

Taking the example chart given in ch. 29, we find Venus 
is in the Karakamsa ascendant along with the Moon (the Atma 
Karaka). The native is thus related to people with high social 
status through his professional sphere. 

‘bMefUltf fcjTfarT | 

TRW9 3R: 11^11 

12. Even if a single planet aspects the natal ascendant 
or Hora Lagna or Ghatika Lagna, the native will become a king. 

Notes : Hora Lagna and Ghatika Lagna are narrated 
on page 63 supra. If a planet aspects one of the three 
ascendants, viz. natal ascendant, Hora Lagna and Ghatika 
Lagna, in becomes a Karaka planet .or significator giving status 
etc. to the native. 

ii^ii 

qrcscz qRt7>tTft?rcT sN u 

« 

13-14. If the six divisions (shadvargas) of the ascendant 
is occupied or aspected by one and the same planet, a 
Raja F yoga is doubtlessly formed. According to the aspect is 
full, half or one fourth, results will be in order full, medium 
and negligible. 

Notes : Rasi, Hora, Drekkana, Trimsamsa, Navamsa 
and Dvadasamsa constitute Shadvarga or six divisions. If a 
planet occupies the ascendant in all these 6 charts it causes 
a powerful Raja yaga. Aspects are referred to in the divisional 
charts here. I am unable to fully conceive the logic in aspects 
in divisional charts for the sage himself referred to longitudinal 
aspectual evaluations in an earlier chapter. Without commen- 



392 


Brihat Parasara Bora Sastra 


ting further on this controversial aspect I leave it at that, 
accepting my limitations to explain this fully. 

WZ TT3T OT«? 1 

15. If the 3 ascendants (i.e. natal ascendant, Hora Lagna 
and Ghatika Lagna) are occupied by planets in exaltation/own 
sign or if the natal ascendant, Drekkana ascendant and 
Navamsa ascendant have exalted planets. Raja yoga is formed. 


*11? 


n tsrgtf ?rsn i 
TT3R?ta> ?? 11^11 


16. If the Moon and a benefic are in the Arudha Lagna, 
as Jupiter is in the 2nd from natal ascendant and both the 
places are aspected by planets in exaltation or in own sign, there 
will be a Raja yoga. 


^ *?3 SfT'ft TT3?T 5?T cT<:??q>Sf<T STT I I^U 

17. If the ascendant, 2nd and 4th are occupied by 
benefics while a malefic is in the 3rd, one will become a king or 
equal to a king. 


*ar>5T^> in q* *t I 

*? am? mv: fan fenfa n?m< 

18. The native will be wealthy if one among the Moon, 
Jupiter, Venus and Mercury is exalted in the 2nd house. 

in q^T: | 

^ vjnrift TT WmW : 1 1 \ £| | 

19. If the 6th, 8th and the 3rd are occupied by debili- 
tated planets as the ascendant lord is exalted or is in (his 
other) own house and aspects the ascendant, there is a Raja yoga. 

CfC3TSC£*T WmotolT ftgiTSScPTr: 1 

TT^: H^oll 



393 


Chapter 39 

20. Again a Raja yoga is formed if the 6th, 8th and 
12th lords are in fall or in inimical signs or in combustion 
as the ascendant lord placed in his (other! own sign or in 
exaltation sign aspects the ascendant. 

SJHT: TT*?*T: ?TrS3 fl'nq: IR?U 

21. If the 10th lord, placed in his own house or in 
exaltation, aspects the ascendant, a Raja yoga is formed. 
Similar is the case if benefics are in angles. 

<TTST%*£<T 5T* ijjf ^I5TT TOTlft'lt^U 

22- If the Atmakaraka is in a benefic’s Rasi/Navamsa, 
the native will be wealthy. If there are ^enefics in angels from 
Karakamsa Lagna. he will become a king. 

5171? fa«l: f^irf nf* I 

favTP* *T fccWr fraTTPSTT ST TVWT: M^|| 

23. If the Arudha Lagna and Darapada are in mutual 
angles or in mutual 3rd/llthorin mutual trines, the native 
will doubtlessly become a king. 

Notes : Arudha Lagna is the Pada fer the natal ascen- 
dant while Dara Pada is the Pada for the 7th house. (Chapter 29 
may be referred in the context of such calculations.) 

These two Padas should mutually be well placed, i.e. in 
mutual angles, mutual trines or mutually 3rd and 1 1 th so that 
the native will enjoy a royal status. 

Should there two Padas be in mutually 6th and 8th signs 
or 2nd and 12th signs, one will suffer from poverty not receiving 
the effects of the Raja yogas in the horoscope. The good 
relationship between Arudha Pada and Dara Pada is one of 
the essential pre-requisites for maturity of Raja Yogas. 

24. If two or all of Bhava Lagna, Horn Lagna, Ghatika 
Lagna are in aspect to exalted planets, a Raja yoga is formed. 



394 Brlhat Parasara Hora Sastni 

<ixi 4 GVFJTtffsirrw ttxJtxtrsttPi I 

JTffT TrfVt^Wrwri ^RTS'EET 3 IRS^II 

25. If the said 3 ascendants, their decanates and Navamas 
or the said ascendants and their Navamsas or the said ascen- 
dants and their decanates are aspected by a planet, a Raja yoga 
is formed. 

qt f^XT^rT: i 

w g^-xj^Ttnn n^n 

TtsraVft sr xixre: i 

xjm^ rT*niRV3ii 

26-27. If Arudha Pada is occupied by an exalted planet 
particularly the Moon in exaltation or by Jupiter/Venus (with 
or without exaltation) while there is no Argala by a malefic, 
the native will become a king. If the Arudha Pada is a benefic 
sign containing the Moon while Jupiter is in the 2nd house, 
the same effect will prevail. 

aqxqfai 

eiqTsfa TPfftftq: smfefa xftr ! ircii 

28. Even if one among the 6 th, 8 th and 12th lords being 
in debilitation aspects the ascendant there will be a Raja >oga. 

•qg^qxnTTqfq-qfir?^ i 

3 xr^ir xro n^n 

tt3tt *t cif<rq> qrfq srTriqft srrt^ »qx? i 

-a V 

qxqfa cnTTH^o'l 

gifhirrmq frnf qrofa ?rqT i 

*T«TTXT%^q XT IT fqV^I^q^R: U^H 

29-31. The native will become a king if a planet ruling the 
4th, 10th, 2nd or the 1 1th aspects the ascendant, while Venus 
aspects the 1 1th from Arudha Lagnaas Arudha Lagna is occupied 
by a benefic. The same effect will be obtained if a debilitated 
planet aspects the ascendant and is placed in the 6 th or the 8 th. 



Chapter 39 395 

Again similar result will prevail if a debilitated planet placed 
in the 3rd/ 1 1th lends aspect to the ascendant. 

*TTSi^ifa toj t 

*5T«it ii^n 

32. I now tell you of the Raja yogas based on the planets 
with different dignities and on the aspects and conjunctions of 
the planets. 

n^u 

If* eft *nfa fMKrenft 1 

T H re gTfl ^ l 5Tvft ll^VU 

33*34, The 9th lord is akin to a minister, and more 
especially the 5th lord. If these two planets mutually aspect, 
the native will obtain a kingdom. Even if these two are conjunct 
in any house or if be in mutually 7th places, one born of royal 
scion will become a king 

^fSQ’ftfa'ITVqt 3 

35. The native will attain kingdom if the 4th lord is in 
the 10th and the 10th lord is in the 4th and be in aspect to 
5th and 9th lords. 

gcT^-ggeSTTdTOT sumgaT: I 

tm sjqtaft tfftcHf S*n<ft 11^1' 

36. If the lords of the 5th, 10th, 4th and the ascendant 
join in the 9th, one will become a ruler with fame spreading 
over the four directions 

gsnrsrffgqY srrfa riq?ft t 

enfirrfcr *t »roft 

37. Should the lord of the 4th or of the 10th join either 
the 5th lord or the 9th Lord, the native will obtain kingdom. 



396 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 

Notes : There are four Raja yogas mentioned in the above 
verse which can be understood as under : 

(1) 4th lord joining the 5th lord. 

(2) 4th lord joining the 9 th lord. 

- (3) 10th lord joining the 9th lord. 

(4) I Oth lord joining the 5 lord. 

It will be still superior if the 4th lord joins both the 5th 
lord and the 9th lord, or if the 10th lord joins the 5th and 
9th lord. It may be noted that this is a yoga caused by an 
angular lord joinig a trinal lord. 

fNft sTTeft *nrt h^h 

38. If the 5 th lord is in the ascendant, 4th or the I Oth in 
the company of the 9th lord or of the ascendant lord, the native 
will become a king. 

*r srrenNrfa? nun 

39. Should Jupiter be in his own sign identical with the 
9th house and be in the company of either Venus or of the 5th 
lord, the native will obtain kinghood. 

*prr fTf Tmr *r n^cii 

40. Two and half ghatis (i.e. 60 minutes of time) from 
mid-day or from mid-night is auspicious time. A birth during 
such an auspicious time will cause one to be a king or equal 
to him. 

Notes : Though mid-day and mid-night are denoted in 
the translation for Dinardfaa and Nisardha a clarification is 
essential in regard to the implications of these. Mid-day simply 
denotes 12 Noon while mid -night zero hour as per common 
use. But what the sage implies is somewhat different. 
Dinardha means half of the day while Nisardha means half of 
the night, keeping in mind the Sun rise and Sun set at a given 
place. The verse has a yoga to indicate that if there is a birth 



Chapter 39 


397 

within an hour of the said Dinardha or Nisardha, the native 
will be a king. I shall illustrate this with a practical case. 

Take for instance a birth on 15th February 1947 at 
Jodhpur 73 E 2 and 26 N 18. The local sun rise is at 0638 hrs 
and sun set at 1749 hrs. Hence for this latitude and date, 
the day duration is llh 11m and night duration 12h 49m, 
Divide the day duration by two to get Dinardha which indicates 
5h 35m. Similarly dividing night duration by 2 wc get Nisardha 
as 6h 24m. Add 5h 35m to Sun rise which will give half the 
day duration. Thus by adding 5h 35m to 6h 38m, we get 
12h 13m. Similarly in the case of night, the night duration 
of 12h 49m be halved and the figure arrived at is to be added 
to sun set. Thus wcget Oh 13m (i.e. 13 m later than the 
usual mid-night). 

From the above we may understand that by simply taking 
12 noon as mid-day and 0 hour as mid-night it will not serve our 
purpose in the context of the yoga suggested by the sage. Need- 
less to mention that LMT is to be used for these calculations. 

Uttar a Kalamrlta has two yogas in this respect, viz, 
Koteeswara yoga and Lakshadhikari yoga (vide ch 4, sloka 30). 
According to its author if there be a birth within 2 ghatikas (i.e. 
48 minutes as against Parasara’s mention of 60 minutes) of 
Dinardha and Nisardha, a king is born who will conquer his 
enemies and observe religious rules of conduct and be learned. 
He further adds that if in the said case an exalted planet is ia the 
2nd house, in aspect to another exalted planet, a Koteeswara is 
born. If the aspectig planet is in its own house (instead of being 
in exaltation) the native will then be only a Lakshadheewara. 
Suffice it to say that there will be relatively less riches in the 
second case. 

f*T*u Twfa TFsnrtir 

41. Should the Moon and Venus be mutually in the 3rd 
and 11th and be in aspects, placed elsewhere, a Raja yoga is 
obtained. 

1 Nofes : As P er the sloka in question, we find two condi- 
tions under which two Raja yogas form. In the first instance 
the Moon and Venus should be in mutually 3 and 11. 



39& 


Brihat Parasara Horn Sastra 


In the second instance, the Moon and Venus can be any- 
where but should mutually aspec*. This type of yoga is found 
in many standard texts. 

?r tit 3n?r:ii Tnrr ew 

42 Should the Moon, endowed with strength, be in 
Vargothamsa and be aspected by four or more planets, the native 
will become a king. 

u^Vsfa 3 im; stefa nv^u 

43. One will become a king if the ascendant in Uttamamsa 
is aspected by four or more planets out of which the Moon 
should not be one. 



TT a ifv tft EW^rT: IIVVU 

44. If one or two or three planets be in exaltation one of a 
royal scion will become a king while another will be equal to a 
king or be wealthy. 


ttsit *T*f?r fafroti: uvstu 

45. If 4 or 5 planets occupy their exaltation signs or 
Moolatrikona signs, even a person of base-birth will become a 
king. 


^ TFT-^>TT 5RT f ^ xT H J UV^U 

46. If 6 planets are exalted, the native will become an 
emperor and will enjoy various kinds of royal paraphernalia. 

^ $tft *t wt mifind : < 

fcji TTUT m ?Tf?nT> IlVVdll 

47. Even if one am one Jumter. Venus ana Mercury is in 



Chapter 40 399 

exaltation while a benefic is in an angle the native will become 
a king or be equal to him. 

fctftqq: qtqra fjmm: I 

ifaqqtsfq 5TRT: <T Tm qqfa SWJ UYttU 

48. If all benefics are relegated to angles while malefics 
are in the 3rd, 6th and 1 1th, the native, . though may be of mean 
descent will ascend, the throne. 


ar«T nvon 


Chapter 40 

Yogas For Royal Association 

awTfuqrrcSpinfq sraR?$ qqrq$fn$u 

1. If the 10th lord from the ascendant is conjunct or 
aspected by the depositor of Amatyakaraka or even conjunct or 
aspected by Amatya karaka himself, the native will be a chief in 
the king’s court. 

Notes : Amatya karaka is the immediate successor of 
Atma karaka as we have seen earlier. The lord of the sign 
occupied by Amatya Karaka should aspect or join the 10th 
lord counted from the ascendant; the native will then enjoy a 
high governmental position. The Amatya karaka taking the 
role of his depositor in the above case will as well yield similar 
effects. 

The yogas given in the chapter should be related to one’s 
serving the government in various capacities depending on other 
combinations in his horosope. 

qni ’ i 

?TC1 fa* ! SOFIcq U^ll 



400 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


2. Jf the 10th and 11th are devoid of malefic occupation/ 
aspect while the 1 1th is aspccted by its own lord, the native will 
be a chief in the king’s court. 

Notes : This verse is open to another interpretation thus : 
the 1 Ith be devoid of malefic aspect/occupatio.n and be aspectcd 
by own lord while the 10th house should also be aspccted 
by its lord and the 10th is also disposed in the same manner. 
That is, the 10th house should also be aspected by its lord and 
should be free from malefic aspect/occupation. 

S3 

ll^ll 

3. Should Amatya karaka and the dispositor Atma karaka 
be together the native will be endowed with great intelligence 
and be a king’s minister. 

Notes : Karakendra is interpreted here as the dispositor of 
Atma karaka. Similarly Amatyesa means the dispositor of Amatya 
karaka. 

fa* ! l 

* -o 

4. If Amatya karaka is strong and be with a benefic or if 
Amatya karaka is in own house or in exaltation, one will surely 
becomca king’s minister. 

TliRWft TOTOtra: I IK. II 

5. There is no doubt in one’s becoming a king’s minister 
and famous if Amatya karaka is in the ascendant or the 5th or 
the 9th. 

3TTF*rerrc^5rT: disnTcd'nK^' I 

6. If Amatya karaka or Amatya karaka be in an angle 
or in a trine from the ascendant the native will beget royal 
mercy, royal patronage and happiness thereof. 



401 


Chapter 40 

fesrsem ! i 

cjcffa spss^T rtr: rtRTufaT: Jisrra^ ii^u 

7. Should malcfics be in the 3rd and 6th from Atma 

karaka or Arudha Lagna or the natal ascendant, one will become 
an army chief. _ 

fTR% ^3^' 3T | 

’RTrtl^T ^ 7T3RT!ft Rtifa He; || 

8. If Atma karaka is in an angle or-in a trine or in 
exaltation or in own house and be in aspect to the 9th lord, 
the native will be a king’s minister. 

RHT% SJrXRpyft^x SPRH TT'RfTR^ | 

rth%rts?i ntn 

9. Should the Moon sign lord become Atma karaka and 
be in the natal ascendant along with a benefic, the native will 
become a king’s minister at his advanced age. 

RTSfa HR TT5nW5 RRtJ||?oU 

10. Should the Atmakaraka be in the 5th, 7th, 10th or the 
9th and be with a benefic, one will earn wealth through royal 
patronage. 

Rrnrwm^ vmr RRirsfa rt i 

TT31RTRftm>T>s?T fafasiiff fipfteTO ! ||g^|| 

11. Tf the Arudha of the 9th house be itself the natal 
ascendant or if Atma karaka be in the 9th house the native will 
be associated with royal circles. 

mR'HTRSR i 

HTOtTRT 5JRT?TRTRH^U 

12. One will gain through royal association if the 11th 
house is occupied by its own lord but be devoid of malefic 
aspect. The Atma karaka should at the Same time be conjunct a 
benefic. 



402 


Brlhat Parasara Hora Sastara 


snrcft <M^4»a-^n>sa qfrvtfwcf: u?3u 

13. An exchange of signs between the 10th lord and the 
ascendant lord will make the native associated with the king in 
a great manner. 

frrcfrm ftrfcff frsrcmq l i 

TO TOf?l HMfclj UtYll 

14. If Venus and the Moon are in the 4th from Karakamsa 
Lagna, the native will be endowed with royal insignia. 

qisfq qwNiq 

qfri qrW fart irfoR THffa* n\w 

15. Should the ascendant lord or the Atma karaka be 
conjunct the 5th lord and be in an angle or in a trine, the native 
will be a king’s minister. 


3jq f*OTOTq>TTSsqTiT: »*?n 


Chapter 41 

Combinations For Wealth 

3iqT3?r: flSmqTfa CfflqW l 

Ufapf qft fqfmrft BTO *$<T U ? II 

1. I now tell you of special combinations giving wealth. 
One born in these yogas will surely become wealthy. 

IJiJsnS* tTftqq ^"1 I 

Frr3 tffcm *gff*TO ll^ll 

2. YOGAS FOR GREAT AFFLUENCE (upto sloka 8) : 
Should a sign of Venus be the 5th house and be occupied 
by Venus himself while Mars is in the 11th house, the native 
will obtain great riches. 



403 


Chapter 41 

Notes : This yoga applies to Capricorn and Gemini ascen- 
dants alone. For Capricorn ascendant, Venus will be in the 
5th in own house while Mars jvill be in the 1 Ith in own house. 
Similarly for Gemini ascendant. So to say for these two ascend- 
ants, the 5th and 11th lords in own houses will confer abundant 
riches. 

grir tftfr shut: 113 n 

3. Should a sign of Mercury be the 5th house and be 
occupied by Mercury himself as the llth house is occupied 
by the Moon, Mars and Jupiter, the native will be very affluent. 

Notes : This yoga applies to Aquarius ascendant and 
Taurus ascendant for which Mercury will be in the 5th in own 
house. It is quite superior for Taurus ascendant keeping 
Aquarius native in the next place. In both cases, Jupiter ruling 
the llth will be in own house along with his friends — the Moon 
and Mars. 

^ rTfoig | 

?TR Sjpparcq UVII 

4. Should Leo be the 5th house and be occupied by the 
Sun himself as Saturn, the Moon and Jupiter are in the llth, 
the native will be very affluent. 

Notes : Here features Aries ascendant having the Sun in 
the 5th in Leo and Saturn, Jupiter and the Moon in the llth 
in Aquarius. Please note Saturn occupies the llth as its 
owner. 

g rrfag sift*?* sfa i 

sim sgsstrej qnw?: 11*11 

5. Should the Sun and Moon be in the llth as Saturn is 
in the 5th identical with his own house, the native will be 
very affluent. 

Notes : Saturn will be in the 5th in Capricorn for a 
Virgo native, and in Aquarius for a Libra native. The Sun and 
the Moon are required to be in the llth. While being so, Cancer 
or Leo will be the 1 1th house as the case may be. 



404 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


5 9^* 5^^ tffaf I 

^'a^n *mt ^51®}?*? *TFW»: ll^U 

6. Should Jupiter be in the Sth identical with his own 
house as Mercury is in the 1 1th, the native will be very affluent. 

Notes : Jupiter rules the Sth for Leo ascendant and for 
Scorpio ascendant while Mercury is the 1 1th lord for these two 
ascendants. Thus the $th and 11th lords will be in own 
signs. 


\ 

wmF? *193* 9 ■prow to*: u\sii 

7. If a sign of Mars be the Sth with Mars therein as 
Venus is in the 1 1th, the native will become very affluent. 

Notes : Cancer and Sagittarius ascendant will attract this 
rule. Mars will be in own house in the Sth while Venus will be 
in the 1 1th in own house for these two ascendants. 

c hn^ 5 flfii i 

vrrtw: iinii 

8. If Cancer be the Sth house containing the Moon therein 
at Saturn is in the 1 1th, the native will become very affluent. 

Notes : Here Pisces ascendant is considered with the 
Moon in the 5th and Saturn in the 11th. 

Thus from slokas 2 to 8, the formula that stands for basic 
consideration is that the 5th lord should be in the 5th while 
the 11th lord is in the 11th itself. Only in case of the rule 
given in sloka 3 for Taurus and Aquarius ascendants, two more 
planets have been added for the 1 1th house position. 

g;*: | 

3*F»!T il&ll 

9. YOGAS FOR WEALTH (upto sloka 15) : Should the 
Sun be in Leo identical with the ascendant and be conjunct 
or aspected by Mars and Jupiter, one will be wealthy. 



Chapter 41 405 

g^JTT q«T 1*2 3TTtft SPft lt?o(| 

10. Should the Moon be in Cancer identical with ascen- 
dant and be conjunct or aspected by Mercury and Jupiter one 
will be wealthy. 

s <• 

Tt rhiihii 

1 1. Should Mars be in the ascendant identical with his 
own sign and be conjunct or aspected by Mercury, Venus and 
Saturn, the native will be rich. 

fl fatrfc p K T wTTcft IRcTU^H 

12. Should Mercury’s sign ascend with Mercury therein 
and be conjunct or aspected by Saturn aud Jupiter the native 
will be rich. 

psfatR erf?** ?ri* I 

garffagrf to* tjqgrrH?:: u^n 

13. Should Jupiter be in the ascendant identical with 
his own sign and be conjunct or aspected by Mercury and Mars, 
the native will be rich. 

crf?*g *f?i i 

*> TO: * UfYII 

14. If Venus be in the ascendant identical with his own 
sign and be conjunct or aspected by Saturn and Mercury, one 
will be wealthy. 

*rf*tft?m^ afro *rfro srfai 

> Q 

rftfm ^ to* ri$Riiiui 

15. If Saturn is in his own sign identical with ascendant 
be aspected by or conjunct Mars and Jupiter, the native will be 
wealthy. 



4w Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 

ara*aNi«ft & arwrt sctt i 

nfs* spT*T ?ns?r ii{\n 

16. OTHER QUALIFIED PLANETS : The 9th lprd and 
th 5th lord are capable of bestowing wealth. Similarly planets 
conjunct such a lord. There is no doubt that these planets will 
give wealth during their Dasa periods. 

Notes : The 5th lord and the 9th lord are primarily 
wealth-givers. If they are well placed in a horoscope, the native 
will become wealthy. If a favourable planet joins the 5th lord 
or the 9th lord, that planet will also become a significator of 
wealth. 

17. The yogas mentioned above (upto sloka 16) should be 
delineated after knowing favourable unfavourable dispositions of 
the participant planets and their strength and weakness. 

STcTf 1 

3tT*T fTtpft 5T3T *T>37 

flqTSSWt »5IfT>P II 

^ ** 5wi*t 

18-19. EFFECTS OF ANGULAR LORD’S DIVISIONAL 
DIGNITIES : If the lord of an angle is in Parijatamsa, the native 
will be liberal, in Uttamamsa highly liberal, in Gopuramsa end- 
owed with prowess, in Simhasanamsa honourable, in Paaravata- 
msa valorous, in Devalokamsa head of an assembly, in Bra hm a, 
lokamsa a sage and in Iravatamsa delighted and be celebrated in 
all quarters. 

Notes : From verse 18 to verse 34 of this chapter, the 
sage instructs us on the dignities of the 4 angular lords and two 
trinal lords. 

The treatment is based on Dasa Varga divisions. For 
meanings of Parijata and other Amsas, sec ch. 6 supra. Shodasa 



Chapter 41 407 

Varga sdheme also can be applied to the rules given herein with 
suitable modification proportionately. 

Lords of angles are those ruling the ascendant, the 4th, 
the 7th and the 10th. Their- divisional dignities are discussed 
in the present group of verses. One of the said rulers having 
various dignities will yield following effects. 


Farijatamsa 

Uttamamsa 

Gopuramsa 

Simhasanamsa 

Paravatmsa 

Devalokamsa 

Brahmalokamsa 

Jravatmsa 


liberal 

highly liberal 

endowed with prowess and manli- 
ness 

honourable (prominent etc.) 
valorous 

head of men, leadership, high posi- 
tion etc. 

sagely (spiritual achievements etc.) 
delighted, ever happy etc. and be 
a celebrated personality from all 
viewpoints. 


Here we must note the implied difference between the four 
lords ruling the various angles. The angular lords are powerful 
and more important in the ascending order. That is, the 4th lord 
is more powerful than the ascendant lord, the 7th lord is so 
against the 4th lord, and the 10th lord is the most powerful 
among the four lords. So the effects will also increase in the 
same order. 


•TTf^sn# foen 

sftvmT tfin 113 oil 

quiqd * Prom ! iiqtu 

1 1 33 II 

20-22. EFFECTS OF 5th LORD'S DIVISIONAL 
DIGNITIES : If the 5th lord is in Parijatamsa, the native will 
take to the branch of learning befitting his race, if in Uttamamsa 
he will have excellent learning, if in Gopuramsa he will rec- 
eive world-wide honours, in Simhasanamsa he will be endowed 



408 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 

with ministership, in also paaravatamsa endowed with 
knowledge of Supreme Spirit; in Devalokamsa he will be a 
Karma Yogi (i.e. a performer of actions, worldly and religious 
rites), in Brahmalokamsa devoted to the Lord and in Iravatamsa 
pious. 

Notes : While the four angular lords are treated in one and 
the same breath, the sage gives special importance to the 5th 
and 9th lords individually. The effects may suitably be under- 
stood based on the explanations given for angular lords above. 

*ftgT nwwif h 5P*Tf?n 

flfqqitf faf^ffjrq: lie's’ll 
qfoqsq qjqtmifaiT: t 

qerbp n tow: i 

wqRT? ?r?qTs*^uqr*nt^ii 

rT Gmforr COT? flfactrfai 

q«n sneft %3Ttri*r! ii^vsii 

23-27. EFFECTS OF 9th LORD'S DIVISIONAL DIGNI- 
TIES : If the 9th lord is in Parijatamsa, the native will visit holy 
places, if in Uttamamsa he had done so in the past births as 
well, if in Gopuramsa he will perform sacrificial rites, in Simha- 
sanamsa he will be mighty, truthful, be a conquerer of his senses 
and will concentrate only on the Supreme Spirit giving up all 
religions, if in Paaravatamsa he will be the greates of ascetics, 
if in Devalokamsa he will be an ascetic holding a cudgel 
( HTTrt ) or a religious mendicant that has renounced all mundane 
attachments and carrying three long staves tied together in his 
right hand and if in Brahmalokamsa he will perform 

Aswamedha yaga (Horse Sacrifice,) and will attain the state of 
Lord Indra (god of gods). If the 9th lord is in Iravatamsa the 
person bom will be a synonym of Dharma or virtues just as 
Lord Sri Rama and Yudhishtira (the eldest of Pandavas). 



Chapter 4l 4 O 9 

Notes : The 5th lord has been used in spiritual and mate- 
rial planes as well. Whereas the 9th lord is solely related to one's 
spiritual achievements as could be seen by the treatment given 
by Maharshi Parasara in the above 5 slokas. 

The word Tridandi has been translated as above in the 
context of relating the native to a Sansyasi as these slokas 
exclusively concentrate on the spiritual achievements of the 
native, ‘Tridandi’ also means one who obtained command over 
mind, speech and deed- Without ‘Trikaranh Suddhi’ or purity 
of these three it will not be possible for one to achieve divine 
bliss. One who thinks bad in his mind though good in the other 
two spheres, viz. speech and actions cannot be called a pure 
character. Or one who thinks of good and speaks similarly but 
acts in a contrary manner cannot be a successful spiritualist. 
Lastly one who speaks undfesirablc words though good in think- 
ing and acting cannot also reach self realisation. Hence it is 
evident that one should be a ‘Tridandi’ or endowed with 
Trikarana Suddhi, so that he locates the Almighty at every 
point of space and time. 

We have so far seen that 5th and 9th lords are primarily 
wealth givers. The sage also denotes the 5th and 9tb lords as 
lords of‘Lakshmi sthanas*. Lakshmi though normally means 
wcalth.further conveys a meaning splendour (our lustre). This 
relates to divine splendour acquired by a person through his 
spiritual merits. If a person is splendorous, we see in him what 
is called Brahma Varchas or the splendour making him look 
like God, free from any material attachment. In this context 
we cannot but recall great personages like Rama Krishna 
ferama Hamsa, Maharshi Ramana, Sankaracharyas of various 

S rders and periods, Sivananda and so on ahd so forth. In all 
lese cases, the 5th and 9th lords and 5th and 9th houses 
enabled them earn that splendour. The wealth they earned is 

such that it cannot be exhausted even after many centuries, 
i e. divine status. 

28. ANGULAR AND TRINAL LORDS RELATED : The 
angles are known as Vishnusthaana (i.e. houses of Lord Vishnu) 
while the trines are called Lakshmi sthaanas (i.e. houses of 



410 Briha t Parasara Hora Sastra 

Lakshmi). If the lord of an angle establishes relationship with a 
trinal lord, a Rajayoga will obtain. 

Notes : The 4 houses, viz. the 1st, 4th, 7th and 10th are 
known as Vishnusthaanas while the 5th and and 9th are Laksh- 
misthaanas. In Hindu mythology, Lakshmi is a consort of Lord 
Vishnu, the supreme god. A relationship thus between an angular 
lord and a trinal lord is capable of causing a superior Rajayoga, 
just as one having the blessings of Sri Vishnu and His consort 
Lakshmi will be endowed with permanent wellbeing. 

The kinds of relationship between planets that will be 
favourable are : 

1. An exchange between these two lords. 

2. Mutual aspects between these two lords. 

3. Conjunction of these two lords. 

4. Mutual angular placement existing between these two. 

5. Mutual trinal placement between these two. 

The first three kinds of relationships are more powerful 
while the last two cannot be equally powerful but in a lesser 
degree. 

A sixth kind of relationship can also be extended in this 
context to Navamsa positions though 1 have no specific classic 
sanction for this. For example in a Capricornian’s case, Mars in 
the Navamsa of Venus and Venus in that of Mars will confer a 
superior Raja yoga. This form of relationship will be eqally 
superior like the first 3 relationships mentioned by me in the 
earlier paragraph. 

After seeing such a relationship between an angular lord 
and a trinal lord, their dignities like Parjjata etc. will have to be 
seen to decide the extent of effects due as could be seen in the 
following six verses. 



411 


Chapter 41 

thtt gfafor: \ 

*rfgr?n ffacranr 1. 113311 

•TTTT^rlf 1(1 41^4 'HlcH *T'-ill<»M«nTT I 

fgfBTift: msmim* 113311 

^ 5r^rnn fWv^ivwT: i 

3TTrT: ^ Hf: 113*11 

29-34 EFFECTS OF DIVISIONAL DIGNITIES OF THE 
TWO PLANETS SO RELATED : Should an angular lord 
and a trinal lord having such a relationship (vide above slokas) 
be in Parijatamsa, the native will be king and will protect men, 
if Uttamamsa he will be an excellent king endowed with eleph- 
ants, horses, chariots etc , if in Gopuramsa he will be a tiger of 
kings honoured by other kings, and if in Simhasanamsa he will 
be an emperor ruling over the entire earth; with the said Raja- 
yoga relationship of the said planets in Simhasanamsa were born 
Harisehandra, Manu, Bali, the Fire god (Agni Deva) and many 
other emperors. In the present Yuga so born is Yudhishtira (or 
Dharma Raja of Malta Bharata). Salivahana’s birth and that of 
others will also come with this yoga. With these planets so related 
and in Paaravatamsa, Manu etc. were born. The Incarnations of 
Lord Vishnu took place when the said planets, being so related, 
were in Devalokamsa; and in Brahmalokamsa Lord Brahma 
and in Iravatamsa the Swayambhu Manu (the first of the 14 
Manus identified as the second creator who produced the 
Prajapatis and to the said Manu the code of laws viz. Manu- 
smriti is ascribed) were born. 

Notes : The two planets, viz. an angular lord and a trinal 
lord with such a relationship, should be simultaneously in 
Parijatamsa. One in Parijatamsa and the other in a still higher 
Amsa will yield still better effects. The reader can intelligently 
manipulate the effects according to such Anisas. 

When studying these slokas, we reach a crucial point as 
to the period of Parasara. There are baseless arguments that 
Parasara, author of Brihat Parasara Hora, could not be a sage 
that lived thousands of years ago; but a very recent author tnat 
should have lived after Varaha Mihira, Bhattotpala, Kalyana 
Varma and so on and So forth. This misconception does not 



412 


Brihai Parasara Hora S antra 

deserve an answer at all and is worth being brushed aside as an 
idle gossip. The holders of such opinion may advance a million 
arguments in their own favour. Our query to them is: which 
exponent referred to the horoscopic positions of Lord Vishnu, 
Harischandra, Manu, Bali Chakravartbi, Agni Deva, Swayambhu 
Manu and last but not the least the Creater Brahma himself? 
Is it humanly possible, but for a sage, with divine contacts, 
to produce combinations existing in the sacred horoscopes of 
Vishnu, Brahma etc.? Also note with specific attention the state- 
ment of Parasara that “Dharma Raja (the eldest son of king 
Pandu, of Maha Bharata) of the present age, has this yoga”. 
Does this not stand as an indisputable testimony of Parasara 
having lived in the Maha Bharata era ? 

Yet, another clue about Parosara is served when in the 
above lines we find his prediction that Salivahana and others 
“will be born” with this yoga. The verb used is bhavita in 
future tense. That conveys that Parasara was a predecessor of 
Salivahana and not a successor of Bhattotpala etc. 

Maharshi Jaimini, author of Poorva Mimamsa and propag- 
ator of Jaimini Astrology was a disciple of Parasara. If Parasara 
lived in the 17th century, what about Jaimini ? 

Specific attention of the reader is drawn to the statement 
of Parasara in "sloka 32 above, to the effect that “in the present 
Yuga” Dharma Raja is born with such a yoga. This is an ample 
proof that our sage was in Maha Bharata time and was the 
illustrious parent of illustrious Veda Vyasa. 

Lastly, the following popular quotation enlists Parasara 
among the 18 exponents of Jyotisha : 

gif: anfft Tfwtsfa TOSTT : | 

ifnpTTl TTTSt *pff || 

it 

This is again a proof that our sage was indeed a sage of 
Mahabharata era and is an authority with crown for Kali yuga 
astrology. 



31*? 11*^11 


Chapter 42 

Combinations For Penury 

EH3T iftm «JdT*d*Tt) wu g% ! I 

«ftrrPT $<im wrqj* SJtR> ! U?ll 

1. O Lord, you have stated many yogas rnlated to acqui- 
sition of wealth. Please tell me such yogas causing utter 
poverty. 

fNehft TITO TCMI^II 

2. The native will be penniless if the ascendant lord is in 
the 12th as the 12th lord is in the ascendant along with a 
Maraka lord (death inflicting planet) or be in aspect to such a 
planet. 

SP%71 q'ESTf 1 

spt5>t: ii^n 

3. The native will be penniless if the ascendant lord is in 
the 6th while the 6th lord is in the ascendant with conjuntion 
or aspect of a Maraka lord. 

fcr grreft wrtnmi 

* « % 

4. Should the ascendant or the Moon be with Ketu whih 
the ascendant lord is in the 8th, the person cencerned will b< 
penniless. 

' « 

TT3l^tftfsq f?TERt II SOI 

5. If the ascendant lord along with a malefic is in the 6th, 
8th or 12th while the 2nd lord is in an enemy's sign or in debili- 
tatton, even a native of royal scion will become penniless. 



414 


Brihat Farasara 11 ora Sastra 


'TT'retS » 

« c 

fTORV ?R: 11^11 

6. If the ascendant lord is conjunct an evil house lord (one 
of the 6th, 8th and 12th lords) or Saturn and be devoid of benefic 
aspect the native will be penniless, 

SPTfTm^ ^*TTrT I 

%7RRifl7R f?TSR> 3n^ ?R: livsll 

7. Should the 5th and 9th lords be respectively found in 
the 6th and 12th and be in aspect to Maraka planets, the native 
will be penniless. 

7THrotTffuqt fa;u! \ 

*TRTFSm£ 3 TTtT: RlfrTEfot italic;!! 

8. If malefics, excepting the lords of the 10th and 9th, be 
in the ascendant in association with or aspect to Maraka planets, 
one will become penniless, 

fa^tTTT m STTSTFIT ^RT^mf^f^cTT: 1 

qprarciTrTT 31vft fatH: Util 

9. Note the planets ruling the signs occupied by the lords 
of 6th, 8th and 12th, If the said depositors are in such evil 
houses in turn and be associated with or aspected by malefics, 
the native will be miserable and indigent. 

TOraffiRTOKft *TR^*WcT> qfe I 

>© 

*lfsq STTef^S^T 5R: II? oil 

10. The lord of the Navamsa occupied by the Moon 
joining a Maraka planet or occupying a Maraka house will make 
one penniless. 

Ufa I 

if cat sTTcfterit ^ninii 

11. Should the lord of natal ascendant and that of Nava- 
msa ascendant be conjunct or be aspected by Maraka planets, 
one will be penniless. 



Chapter 42 


415 


■ff Wm F HW T: 'Tl'H: W: \ 

«& .» . o 

-f?T5rT> snq<T aqififT: ii^ii 

12. If inauspicious houses are occupied by benefics while 
auspicious houses are occupied by malefics, the native will be 
indigent and will be distressed even in the matter of food. 

t* faqm: sfaciT s^i; \ 

$ S* **?*mft% *»JcTT:H^U 

13. A planet associated with one of the lords of the 6th, 
8th and 12th, being bereft of a trinal lord’s aspect, will in its 
Dasa periods cause harm to the native’s financial aspects. 

farnqp? sri 

14. If the 8th/1 2th from Atmakaraka or from the natal 
ascendant be aspected by Atmakaraka Navamsa lord and the 
natal ascendant lord, the native will be bereft of wealth. 

cqtr S^TcT actZR | 

15. The native will be a spendthrift if the 12th from 
Atmakaraka is aspected by the depositor of Atmakaraka or 
if the 12th from the natal ascendant is aspected by the ascendant 
lord. 

u\%\\ 

a* t»?V3l» 

q^TtJfTtJrT OTTCT \ 

16-18. Now I tell you some yogas for poverty along with 
conditions of their nullifications. Should Mars and Saturn be 
together in the 2nd house, the native’s wealth will be destroyed. 


416 


Brihal Parasara Hora Sastra 


Should Mercury aspet the said two planets in the 2nd, there will 
be great wealth. There is no doubt in it. The Sun in the 2nd in 
aspect to Saturn will cause penury while the Sun so placed if 
be not aspected by Saturn will give riches and fame. The same 
effects (i.e. poverty) be declared if Saturn is in the 2nd in aspect 
to the Sun. 


sranrcfaiHTra: n*3ii 

Chapter 43 

Longevity 

'JTTTarmnr^ sth *>*to?* hi?u 

1. O Sage, you have dealt with combinations for wealth 
and poverty. Kindly detail methods of ascertaining the life span 
of human beings. 

'JGC r*nTT feq ! ^ f^^qi [ 

yqqn-q Tqtft ST?T qg gTTfa ll^ir 

&qf STTTT*nTT5Tq Siq^Tfa rT^TSUcT: ll^ll 

2-3. O Brahmin, for the benefit of mankind I narrate 
methods of ascertaining longevity, as knowing longevity is diffi- 
cult even for gods. Many exponents have laid down various 
methods of longevity calculations. Following is the summary of 
such schools of thoughts. 

Notes : Slokas 2-15 deal with Pindayu system of longevity 
calculations. After dealing with translation of these 14 slokas, 
the entire system of Pindayu is being fully explained by me with 
a practical example so that the reader follows the calculations 
involved thoroughly. 


Chapter 43 417 

$51 3*Tg;snntr*T: i 

Hwsrrfar ttott: kivii 

fqw?Ta: ttt <T* ^rft«rfcra?rrqw i 

TiWfa fgrr«?5S ! «r»T 6 ^PTqTTHH: II HU 

Timer grffttr^T 1 

T^'<?T?msTfwfmmitST;f: *TC?*T: ll^ll 

5T£e*ft fr?rf5T*m*TT 3nmfT®«T: SWptmtff: I 
sftaTfc^ereijs:^ ?N m^i^TRWt llvsll 
fT^amst T*?: JTVm TT'KI^pT) *PT®3<TTrT I 

re fq^gfc Kft smt mfmrFta «nm:iicii 

4-8. PINDAYU : The planets contribute longevity accord- 
ing to their being in exaltation or debilitation, and also based 
on their strengths and weaknesses and positions in Aswini 
etc. and in the various signs. First of all Pindayu, based on 
the planetary positions. O brahmin, listen to what I say, with 
singlemindedness. 19, 25, 15, 12, 15, 21 and 20 are the numper 
of years contributed by the planets from the Sun etc. when in 
(deep) exaltation. Thesr are half of the above in (deep) 
fall, and if the planets are in between exaltation and fall, rule of 
three process should be used, Deduct the actual position of 
the planet from its deep exaltation point. If the product is less 
than 6 signs, deduct it again from 12 signs. The product concer- 
ned be multiplied by the number of years allotted to the planet 
and divided by 12 to get the planet’s actual contribution. 

9. RECTIFICATIONS : Excepting Venus and Saturn, 
the contributions made by others should be halved, if they are 
eclipsed, by the Sun. One third should be reduced if the 
planet is in its inimical sign. This does not apply to the one in 
retrogression (see vakra charam). 

mmg m ftmr: tit) ?rr?r sr^*? 


418 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


g wgtWit ssft *r§: > 

•ITS^T wfaTFT ^S<R7 TRc^ gfafa; FtJePT 11 1 ? 11 

10-11. DEDUCTIONS FOR PLANETS IN VISIBLE 
HALF : Full, half, one third, one fourth, one fifth and one 
sixth are the deductions of contributions made by maiefics 
placed in the visible half of the zodiac. Benefics in such cases lose 
only half of what maiefics lose. Should there be more than one 
planet in a house, the deduction due to the strongest will only 
prevail and not due to other planets in that particular house. 
Waning Moon is a benefic for this purpose. ' 

HRtfrfafawT jrron sifW f^m^T i 

ritaifcj H^il 

*T^|% * 

aw ! n^n 

12-13. MALEFICS IN ASCENDANT : In case the ascen- 
dant is occupied by maiefics, adopt tbe following procedure : 
Convert the ascendant’s sphuta into minutes of arc and multiply 
it by the years etc. contributed by the occupant and divide by 
21600. The years etc. so arrived be deducted from the respective 
contribution which will be the net span donated by the planet. 
If there is benefic’s aspect on the ascendant containing maiefics, 
then the loss is only half (obtained through these calculations) 

tTraifolfT t'TiRFJ: fcsfa jitfaST: ll^ Vti 

TTftrgeti ^ II It XI I 

14-15. ASCENDANT'S CONTRIBUTION : The number 
of years contributed by the ascendant will correspond to the 
number of signs it gained (from Aries) while the degrees the 
ascendant gained in the particular sign will alsocorrespondingly 
donate (i.e. 30 degrees— 1 year). If the Navamsa Ascendant 
lord is stronger than the ascendant lord, then the contribution 
be computed only based on the Navamsas gained (from 



Chapter 43 419 

Aries), otherwise the computation will be for the Rasi ascendant 
only. 

Notes : The seven planets from the Sun to Saturn respec- 
tively contribute 19,25,15,12, 15, 21 and 20 years when on deep 
exaltation degree. The contributions are just halved when these 
are on deep debilitation degrees. The deep exaltation degrees for 
the 7 planets respectively from the Sun on are : Aries 10°, 
Taurus 3°, Capricorn 28’, Virgo 15°, Cancer 5°, Pisces 27° 
and Libra 20°. By adding 180°, to the said degrees, we get 
deep debilitation points for the concerned planets. After find- 
ing out the individual contributions of span of longevity, the 
same are to be rectified which method is being explained in 
appropriate place in the following paragraphs. To work out 
the longevity through Pindayu method, we will take up the 
horoscope of a male bom on 21.5.1944 at 19h 01m 1 5s (WT) at 
13N40 79E20. The Rasi and Bhava charts as reuqired for our 
purpose are : 



Merc 

Moon 

Ven 

Sun 

Sat 


Rasi 

Mars 

Jup 

Rahu 

Ketu 



Asc 





420 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 



Merc 

Moon 

Ven 

Sun 

Sat 


Bhava 

. 

Mars 

Rahu 

Ketu 

Jup 


Asc 




The planetary longitudes in tht respective signs as per 
Lahiri Ayanamsa (23-4-12) are : The Sun 7-12-18, the Moon 
27-35-46, Mars 6-18-46, Mercury 14-54-13, Jupiter 26-7-13, 
Venus 27-17-50, Saturn 3-9-41 and ascendant 0-48-34. The bhava 
starting points are : 1st — Libra 15-48-1 5, 2nd — ScoTpio 15-48-15, 
3rd— Sagittarius 15-47-39, 4th— Capricorn 15-47-2, 5th — Aquari- 
us 15-47-1, 6th — Pisces 15-47-38, 7th — Aries 15-48-15, 8th — 
Taurus 15-48-15, 9th— GemiDi 15-47-38, 10th — Cancer 15-47-1, 
11th — Leo 15-47-1 and Virgo 15-47-38. 

Based on the sage’s instructions, we may device the follo- 
wing simple and common formula to know the number of years 
contributed by any of the 7 planets. (All concerned longitudes 
should be converted into decimals. The minutes and seconds be 
also considered. For example, 21° 32' 49" is converted into 
21.547 degrees for easy calculation.) The formula to find out 
the basic planetary contribution is : 


1. If “d” is less than 180°, then “c” 

=f— (dXf-i-360) 

2- If “d” is above 180° X f - 


360 




421 


Chapter 43 


Where “d” is distance between the planet’s deep exalta- 
tion degree and its actual placement; "f” is the full number 
of years grantable by the planet and V is the basic years 
actually granted by it due to its placement. 

Take Saturn’s case as an example. He can at best contri- 
bute 20 years. In the horoscope under evaluation, he is 
223.1613 degrees away from his deep exaltation (Libra 20°). 
Hence to find out the basics ontribution of Saturn, we use 
rule 2 above, thus i 


- 2 23.1613 X 20 
360 


12.3979 years 


On this basis, we have for the example nativity, the follow- 
ing basic donations of years by the 7 planets : 

The Sun : 17.5642 years 

The Moon : 24.6247 years 

Mars : 8.4036 years 

Mercury : 6.9968 years 

Jupiter : 14.1200 years 

V Venus 19.2327 years 

Saturn : 12.3979 years 


These basic contributions will undergo the following 
reductions, as applicable. 

I. Astangata Harana'2. Satru Kshetra Harana 3. Vyayadi 
Harana 4. Kroorodaya Harana. These may be understood from 
the following paragraphs. 

1. Astangata Harana : If a planet is combust reduce 
the span by half. However, this docs not affect Venus and 
Saturn in combustion. 

2. Satru Kshetra Harana : If a planet is in its enemy’s 
sign, reduce one third of the basic years and take only two 
third. An exception is that a retrograde planet, although 
placed in inimjeal sign, does not incur this liability. ‘Vakrachara’ 
is the expression made by Maharshi Parasara and hence it 
excepts a retrograde planet. Mars also does lose in an enemy’s 
sign. Needless to mention, a planet in netural’s sig- , (or in 
friend’s sign) is not subjected to this reduction. 

3. Vyayadi Harana : Planets entail reduction if placed any- 
where between the 12th and 7th (reckoned in descending order). 



hrihat Parasara Hora Sasira 

This need not be mistaken to be Drisyardha Hani. Drisyardha 
means that half of the zodiac which is visible. Hence it is 180° 
behind the ascendental cusp, i.e. upto descendant via meridian. 
Vyayadi Harana figures are : full, half, 1/3, 1/4, 1/5 and l/6h 
according to the planet being in 12th, 11th, 10th, 9th, 8th and 
7th. These are for malefic planets while a benefic in this con- 
nection loses only half of what is noted for a malefie. The 
Moon is ever a benefic for longevity calculations, as . per 
Maharshi Parasara. (Mercury although joining a malefic be 
treated as a benefic only, for all longevity calculations.) We 
find here that there is harmonic progression in these deductions 
and hence we ought to have a scientific and logical approach to 
the quantum of correction, rather than resorting to a flat check 
arbitrarily. There is no justification in straightaway eliminating 
the whole, for example, for a malefic in the 12th not giving heed 
to his actual degreewise placement. It should be full at the 12th 
bhava ending point, poroprtionately less on the 12th cusp and 
still lesser on the beginning point of 12th bhava or 1 1th bhava 
ending point. That is, starting with a 100% less on the 12th 
bhava ending we gradually arrive for a 50% reduction at the 
point where the llth bhava ends. Thus it will be one sixth 
reduction at the end of 7th bhava while it will be l/7th at the 
beginaing of the 7th bhava (or end of the 6th bhava). The 
reduction obtained by this method should bo half in the case of 
a benefic (i.e. Jupiter,' Venus, Mercury and the Moon). With- 
out going through any difficult process, for each bhava, a 
common formula is given with which one can rectify the basic 
contributions of a planet in one of these houses. 

The formula is : 

‘c’ 

(14-House)- (DP ~RL) =loss of * ears 

(DP=Distance of planet from bhava start; BL=Bhava 
length and ‘House’ is the bhava occupied by the planet under 
rectification. 

To understand this formula, we will rectify Saturn’s 
contribution He is in the 8th bhava and hence attracts 
this reduction. He is in Gemini 3-9-41 while the 8th house 
begins in Taurus at 15-48-15 and ends at 15-47-38 in Gemini. 
Thus the length of the 8th bhava is 29-59-33 or 29.9925 degrees, 
which is ‘SL* for our purpose. The basic contribution of 



Chapter 43 


423 


Saturn is 12.3979 years. He is 17.3572 degreer ahead of the 
8th bhava beginning. Therefore, his reduction is 


12 3979 

(l4 _g)_( 17 .3572-29.9925) ==2 ' 2869 yearS 


Thus, on account of Vyayadi Harana, Saturn entails a 
check of 2 2869 years. In the example horoscope. Mercury is 
not liable to this reduction as he is quite prior to the beginning 
of the 7th bhava. Others that attract this check are : The Sun, 
the Moon, Venus, Mars and Jupiter. The figures for these 
planets based on the present formula are : 


Venus 
The Sun 
The Moon 
Saturn 
Wars 
Jupiter 


(7th bhava) 
(7 th bhava) 
v 7th bhava) 
(8th bhava) 
(9 th bhava) 
(10th bhava) 


1.4533 years 
2.7939 years 
1.8636 years 
2.2869 years 
1.9472 years 
1.9314 years 


4. Kroorodaya Harana : Only malefics (i.e. Saturn, the 
Sun and Mars) entail this check if in the ascendant. 
Mercury, though joining a natural malefic will not be liable to 
this reduction. We do not require this reduction to any planet 
in the example horoscope, as there is none in the ascendant. 
Here the ascendant means the area between the starting and 
ending points of the sign rising. To find out this reduction, 
the ascendental cusp in degrees, minutes and seconds be 
multiplied by the number of basic years donated by the malefic 
concerned and divided by 21600. The divider is 21600 as these 
are the total minutes of arc in the zodiac. The figure so arrived 
should be reduced from the said malefic’s basic contribution. 
However, if a benefic aspects the said malefic, reduce only half 
of the figure so suggested. 

5. We have thus seen four types of reductions. At every 
stage the reduction should not be done instantaneously. After 
obtaining the reduction figures, wherever permitted, check up 
if there is more than one reduction for one and the same planet 
under various headings. The following may be remembered in 


this connection. 


(a) If a planet attracts more man one reduction, the 
highest reduction is only to be done ignoring the others. For 



424 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 

example, assume Mercury attracts a reduction of 7.5 years due 
to rule 1, followed by 2.3 years due to rule 2 and 4.35 years 
due to rule 3. The highest reduction is due to rule 1 and 
hence only 7.5 is to be deducted and the other two figures be 

ignored in toto. 

(b) In case of Vyayadi Harana (rule 3), two or three 
planets may be in one bhava. In that case, the strongest loses 
and the other (or others) will not lose. 

Not only the planets, but the ascendant also grants a 
certain number of years. This figure should also be found out 
before adding to the planetary contributions. To know the 
the number of years granted by the ascendant, firstly note the 
number of signs intervening between Aries and the sign before 
the ascendant. That is, if Sagittarius is the ascendant, count 
upto Scorpio beginning from Aries. This denotes 8 years. 
The degrees in the ascendant be also proportionately converted 
into years treating 30 degrees as one year, or 2.5 degrees as a 
month. The contribution of ascendant will be so calculated if 
the ascendant lord is stronger than the Navamsa Lagna lord. 

In case the Navamsa Lagna lord is stronger than his 
counterpart, a different computation is to be resorted to, thus. 
Count from Aries till you reach a sign before Navamsa Lagna. 
In the case under study, the Navamsa Lagna lord. Moon, is 
stronger than the ascendant lord. Hence we compute Navamsa 
Lagna’s contribution for our own use. The Navamsa Lagna is 
Cancer. Hence from Aries to Cancer we have three completed 
Navamsas which give 3 year. The ascending degree is 0-48-34 
whereas one Navamsa is 3° 20*. Proportionately thus we get 
another 0.2428 years and have the total contribution of 3.2428 
years as Ascendant’s contribution. In case of Navamsa treat 
3° 20' as one full year. - The ascendant’s contribution under- 
goes no check. 

Now wc are ready for final reductions. There are 
3 planets in the 7th house, viz. the Sun, the Moon and Venus. 
The Sun is the strongest and henee Vyayadi Harna (rule 3) 
applies to only the Sun while Venus and the Moon are rid of 
reduction on this score. The Sun is in enemy’s camp and on 
this score he loses a third of 17 5642, which reduction is equal 
to 5.8547. This figure is higher than the one obtained for the 



425 


Chapter 43 

Sun as per rule 3 (i.e. Vyayadi Harana). Hence his final 
contribution turns to be 11.7095 years (i e. basic years minus 
Satru kshetra Harana). In the matter of Vyayadi Harana 
(rule 3) there is no other bhava where there is more than one 
planet. 

Though the Moon has not lost on account of rule 3 
(Vyayadi Harana), she is liable to reduction on account of her 
combustion (rule 1). Thus when her basic contribution (24 627) 
is halved, she is left with a net donation of 12 3124 years. 

Except the Sun, no other planet is in enemy’s sign. So, 
Satru Kshetra Harana (rule 2) does not apply to others. Now 
the final contributions may be noted as below : 


Planet 

Basic yrs. 

Reduction Reason 

Net yrs. 

Sun 

17.5642 

l/3rd Rule 2 

11.7095 

Moon 

24.6247 

1/2 Rule 1 

123124 

Mars 

08.4036 

9th bhava Rule 3 

06.4564 

Mercury 

06.9968 

Nil 

06.9968 

Jupiter 

14.1200 

10th bhava Rule 3 

12.1886 

Venus 

19.2327 

7th bhava exempted 

19.2327 

Saturn 

12.3979 

8th bhava Rule 3 

10.1110 

Lagna 



3 2428 



Total : 

82 2502 


These years are in Savanamana (360 days a year) as we 
have used 360° of the zodiac. To apply this to Gregorian 
calendar, we have to convert the same into Sauramana. By 
simply multiplying the said figure by. 0.9856034, we can get 
Sauramana. Thus in the case of our example, we arrive at a 
net longevity in Sauramana as 8 1 .06 years. 

The dasa period so obtained are Pinda Dasa of the 
7 planets and the Lagna. II the Sun is strongest in the horoscope, 
effects can be worked out on Pinda Dasa method. 




426 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 

str ft* ! fawn?*: \ 

t*R>5RRRtm CTr€|: fifcT: RRT?T*R fjl I 

^TfRRrERTR R>RT3T 5TRT R$Tn ; RRTT fRTTRSIT: II ^ V9) 1 

16-17 NISARGA YU : O Brahmin, now I tell you about 
Nisargayu 1> 2, 9, 20, 18, 20 and 50 are the years allotted to the 
Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus, Jupiter the Sun and Saturn from 
the period of birth. 

Notes : Except giving the number of years applicable to 
Naisargayu, there is no other mention about rectification etc. in 
our version as well as in that of Chaukambha Sanskrit Sansthana. 
However, we have some more instructions in the version given 
by Thakur Prasad Pustak Bhandar. The relevant portion is as 
under : 

tr<r fan fanifPr ii 

This conveys to us that the years dehoted for the planets 
are when they are in deep exaltation. These are halved at-deep 
debilitation. Then the rectifications are the same as applicable 
to Pindayu. So to say, the four kinds of reductions suggested 
for Pindayu be performed for Nisargayu as well. Ascendant 
also contributes in Nisargayu. The method of its contribution 
in Nisargayu is also the same as seen in Pindayu scheme. 

3T*Tis?TTJT tftRRTRt t&JRT RrRm*R$tT I 

'Rife t?TT WT: HRj?RT tT^*T f T«rTf4'?i*{ \ 

^RTSRTjTfqei 5flR«RTO?TTJjR: U? 6.11 

18-19. AMSAYU : Now about Amsayu contributions by 
the ascendant and planets. The years correspond to the number 
of Navamsas counted from Aries. Multiply the longitude in 
question by 108. If the product exceeds 12, expunge multiples 
of 12 and consider the final product in Rasi, degrees etc. as 
years, months etc. 



427 


Chapter 43 

Notes : The 7 planets and the ascendant contribute to 
longevity as per Amsayurdhaya method based on the Navamsas 
covered. 3® 20' longitude equals one year. Thus the basic 
contributions can be worked out as per the example given for the 
Lagna’s longitude in thePindayu scheme. Similar understanding 
can be extended to planetary longitudes. The basic contributions 
thus found out be rectified in the same manner as explained for 
Pindajayu. The sage puts forth a different suggestion as 
enunciated by another school of thought in regard to recti- 
fication of Amsayu, in the following slokas : 


3T^TSTTt IRoll 

fgTTof [\R\n 

sntf t 

sjfaw n^n 

20-22. Tlie same* reductions as per Pindayu apply to 
Arnsaju a& well; i e. half for a combust planet, one third for 
in ; mical placement and the ones due for placements in the half 
of the zodiac counted from the 1 2th backwards. Some scholars 

suggest further corrections for Amsayu, viz. to increase three- 
fold the contribution of a planet in exaltation or in own house 
and double the contribution if the contributor is in his own 
Navamsa Or in own decanate. If doubling and trebling is 
warranted, only trebling be done. In case of reductions also, 
only halving is to be done if both halving and reducing a third 
are required. That is how the final life span of men be 
understood . 

Notes : Rectification of Amsayu be done, taking the basic 
contributions as detailed below. 

(a) Treble the basic years if the planet is exalted or in own 

sign. 

(b) Double if in own Navamsa or own decanate. 

(e) Among ‘a’ and ‘b\ if both are needed only ‘a* is to be 
effected. 



428 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 

(d) No clear instructions are found about halving the 
contribution or casting off a third Halving, however, obviously 
applies to a debilitated planet while loss of a third part applies 
to a planet in inimical sign. In the matter of deduction also, 
only halving is to be effected if both reductions are required 
for one and the same planet. 

^ ^R I 

tmf TOIRT *RRT Rjj *T%<T II ^ }|| / 

23. LONGEVITY FOR OTHER LIVING BEINGS : For 
other living beings as well such computations be made. The said 
figure be multiplied by the figure corresponding to its full span of 
life and divided by the figure corresponding to Tull span of life 
for human beings 


3Tsntr: 'R* HRRifoTgtrsR* i 

3rrwr Nrhi^Wt ^ fjTsftfPT i u^yii 

9^-3Rr-'<Tc<RTR03 , CRT $R^tR 

c TBT?T§rK7R TTSRRT 5Rf)f?R14 \ 

JTtmri <t«iti«^ii 

grF^srr^ i 

fa?TRRtRTP>JT ^ q't^I I 

^ fa'FRT §-RWT«*!R: n^cll 
’TTTRcTRT B , $4J£RT ?RTW4>*T I 
f?RT3<r?3TRT 'BT TTR: ?TfRf?nT: |) 


24-29. FULL LIFE SPAN OF VARIOUS LIVING 
BEINGS : J now tell you the full lire span figures for various 
hvmg beings. Gods and sages enjoy endless lire span (i.e. in 
astronomica! proportions as against ordinary mortals). The 
lull life span of eagles, owls, parrots, crows and snakes is one 
thousand years. Falcon, monkey, bear, and frog-tne full span 
ofhfem these cases is 300 years. Demon’s life span in full is 
150 years while it is 120 years for human beings. 32 years for 



Chapter 43 


429 


horses, 25 years for donkeys and camels, 24 years for oxen and 
buffaloes, 20 years for peacocks, 16 years for goats and rams. 
14 years for swans, 12 years for cuckoo, dog and dove, 8 years 
for hens etc, and 7 years for birds etc.— these are full life spans 
for various living beings. 

H&TSfHT sffcei ! 1 

« C N 

Tth frotari *T§r* wfoii ?nn u*?u 

30-31. CHOICE OF LONGEVITY : I have narrated 
3 different methods of longevity. Listen to me about the choice 
among the three systems. According to the ascendant, the Sun 
or the Moon being stronger than the other two, Amsayu, 
Pindayu or Nisargayu be respectively chosen. 

snmri iM. ffritawl n^» 

32. DOUBTFUL CASES : If 2 among the ascendants the 
Sun and the Moon gain equal strength, then longevity be worked 
out as per both systems and the average of both (final) be consi- 
dered. If all the 3 are equally strong, the average of the 3 be 
considered. 

Notes : In slokas 30 and 31 above, we are asked to select 
one among the 3 systems, viz Pindayu, Naisargayu and Amsayu 
according to the Sun, the Moon and ascendant being the 
strongest. If two among the three have equal Shadbala, then 
the average of the respective systems will be the final longevity. 
If the three are of equal strength, the average of three systems be 
taken to be actual life duration of the native. 

Take for example where the Sun and the Moon are equally 
strong and assume that Pindayu indicates a life span of 52.5 years 
while Nisargayu gives 40.7 years. The average of these two, 
i.e. 46.35 years will be the actual longevity. 

Similarly assume that the luminaries and the ascendant are 
equally strong, and contribute 62.9 years Pindayu, 25.5 years 



430 


Drihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


Nisargayu and 12.8 years of Amsayu. The average of these three, 
i,e, 33.73 years will be the actual longevity of the native, 

q$qTfq 'T’T ! I 

q^§*qf ?rqq 

?fTvrat^at^ppirt ST^rcTtTiT 1 

^ >3 O N 

JTrI vpTTIwthllwji tftqifqr fafqqpta HVStl 
%qtq q?*rP2T?qf IThf q^ %3T>TTq 1 » 
rrq^tTlfqvPqi^lf <Jcftq qftfq^rT n^V.M 
folcft ft =trT rRt ?*HgqTfrT*T ► 
fr^Tsqfr g 73 ^hTqrq^Tqifq fg 113411 
ffqtsf£R^cT tUT q^qg^T^q I 
qT5 ; ? fFqrftfqq ! qtqqTq^^TTfq q U^U • 
rr^^Rsqft rs j> qr fwqrft enrt \ 

3TTcT^q cRTS?qpj?fqqq fesftrTq ! 113*11 

*>qqq"T qfqrfqf f?T5 qi^q ^ 1 

tftti^rfqqqi^ iq^TTfq^er: ii^ii 

qT qT^r’ q^|?TRTqT \ 

tjferq mzm fqfirsn qqqr q£; u*e n 

33-40. OTHER CLUES TO LONGEVITY : O excellent 
of the Brahmins, I give you details of other methods in the 
matter of longevity as under : This is based on the positions of 
the ascendant lord, 8th lord, Saturn, the Moon, natal ascendant 
and Hora ascendant (Hora Lagna). These six are grouped into 
three groups thus : the lords of the ascendant and of the 8th 
on the one hand, Saturn and the Moon on the other hand, and 
the natal ascendant and Hora ascendant on yet the other hand. 
Out of a group, if the two are in movable sign/signs long life is 
denoted. One in fixed sign and the other in a dual sign will 
also bestow long life. One in movable aign and the other in 
fixed sign will give medium life. If both are in dual sign then 
again medium life will be obtained. Short life is denoted if one 
is in a movable sign as the other is in a common sign, or if both 
are in fixed signs. The type of life denoted by three or two 



Chapter 43 


431 


groups be only considered. If (he three groups denote different 
scales, then the one indicated by the pair of natal ascendant 
'and Hora aseendant be only considered. In case of three 
different indications if the Moon fs in the ascendant or the 7th, 
then the one indicated by Saturn-Moon pair will only come to 
pass. 

Notes : Three groups are considered here for this system 
of longevity calculations. Following are the three groups, each 
group consisting two of the six. 

1st group — natal ascendant lord and 8th lord from the 
ascendant. 

2nd group — Saturn and the Moon. 

3rd group — natal ascendant and Hora Langa. (For Hora 
Lagna, see p. 63). 

Thus two planets in one group, two planets in another 
group and two ascendants in yet another group are selected. 
Now their positions will denote the basic longevity. Note the 
position of each of the constituent in each group thus : 

1. Long life : If both the constituents are in movable signs 
(jointly or separately), long life will come to pass. One in fixed 
sign and another in a dual sign will also give same scale of 
longevity. 

2. Medium life : One in movable sign and another fixed 
sign will give medium life. Both in dual signs will also give same 
effects. 

3. Short life : One in movable sign and another in dual 
sign will indicate short . life. Both of them in fixed signs will 
produce again short life. 

Thus, all the six possible positions of a pair are covered. 
Which group is to be considered for arriving at life span and 
in what circumstances be understood thus. 

4. Out of the three groups, the scale of span (viz. long, 
medium and short) indicated by two or three be considered. 
Suppose two groups indicate medium life while another 
short life, then take medium span as. the basic one. Alternatively 
if three indicate identical scales, i e. long, short or medium, 
consider that as the case may be. It is also possible that one 
group denotes long life, another medium life and yet another 
short life. In that case follow point 5 given below. 



432 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


5. If 3 groups denote variable spans, the group of natal 
ascendant and Hora ascendant will have a say on the indication. 
Whatever this pair denotes will be the basic span in case of 
three different indications. 

6. Rule 5 has also an exception, thus. That is, in the case 
of three different indications (i.e. one long life, another medium 
life and yet another short life), see the position of the Moon in 
the natal horoscope. If she is in the ascendant or in the 7th, 
then the indication given by the pair of Hora-natal ascendants 
be ignored and the indication of Saturn-Moon be alone 
considered. If the Moon is neither in the ascendant nor in the 
7th, then follow the indication of Hora-natal ascendants as given 
in rule 2 above. 

q**T*TT TfffaWTi I)*?!! 

ffW . HYRII 

HiSRTO: 5THTH^cT IIVVII 

41-44. FURTHER CLARIFICATIONS : If long life is 
denoted by all the said three groups, the span is 120 years, if 
by two groups it is 108 years and if only by one group it is 96 
years. If medium life is arrived at. by three groups, it is 80 years, 
by 2 groups 72 years and by one group 64 years. If short life 
is denoted by the said three groups it is only 32 years, if by two 
groups 36 years and by one group 40 years. These are rectified 
as under. 

Notes : Again, the sage fixes the quantum of years for long, 
short, and medium life spans, thus. 

Long life : by 3 pairs — 120 years (harmonic reduction of 

12 years) 

2 pairs — 180 years 
1 pair — 96 years 



Chapter 43 


433 

Medium life : by 3 pairs — 80 years (harmonic reduction of 

8 years) 

• 2 pairs — 72 years 

1 pair — 64 years 

Short life : by 3 pairs — 32 years (progressive increase of 

4 years) 

2 pairs — 36 years 

1 pair — 40 years 

The indication has to be selected as per rules 4 to 6 given 
in the notes for slokas 33-40. 

We will now work out the basic contribution of longevity 
for the same example as given for Pindayu calculations. The 
chart may be understood from Pindayu example, while Hora 
Lagna is Taurus 20° 32' 12". 

The first group — ascendant lord is in a movable sign and 
the 8th lord is also in a movable sign. Hence long life. 

The second group — Saturn and the Moon are respectively 
in dual sign and movable sign. Hence short life. 

The third group — Hora Lagna and the natal ascendant are 
both in fixed signs. Again short life. 

Two groups indicate short life. Hence we are left with no 
dilemma but to select the indications given by the two groups, 
i.e. short life. Two pairs indicate short life, hence 36 years will 
be the basic longevity. 

This basic longevity will have to be rectified further as per 
the instructions given in the following verses. 

TTCtTjfcti llTfinHi»S3«TT?T(T: I 

$?r. 

HTOqqffefofft StTOTW IlY^U 

45-46. RECTIFICATIONS : If the contributor is in the 
beginning of a sign, his dotation will be full and it will be nil 
if he is at the end. For intermediary placements, rule of three 
process will apply. Add the longitudes of the contributors 
(devoid of signs) and the sum so arrived at be divided by the 
number of contributors. The latest product be multiplied by the 



434 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 

number of basic years and divided by 30. This will yield the 
net longevity. 

Notes : If the contributor is in the zero degree of the sign, 
his share will be full and if be is at the end, it will be zero. In 
between, his .contribution j s proportionately known. The 
longitudes of the contributors, according to beiiig 2 or 4 or 6 as 
the case may be should be added together, devoid of signs. 
The resultant product be divided by 2 or 4 or 6 depending on 
the contributors. This figure should be multiplied by basic 
years and divided by 30 which will be net span of life. Basic 
years will also depend on whether one, two or three spans are 
being considered. When we are considering short life by 3 
pairs, such figure will be 96 (i.e. 32 X 3) or when medium life by 
2 pairs are being considered it will be 144, (i.e. 72x2) and so 
on and so forth. 

In -the example horoscope, we have short life contributed 
by 2 pairs and hence basic years for the time being be taken as 
72 (i.e. 36 plus 36). The contributors are Moon, Saturn, Mars 
and Mercury. Their longitudes devoid of signs added denote 
51° 58' 26”. This is to be divided by 4, as there are 4 contri- 
butors Thus we get 12° 59’ 37”. This is to be multiplied by 
72 (basic years) and divided by 30. The net longevity in this 
process is 31.18 years. 

Though Pindayu applies to the said horoscope, we have 
simply taken the same as an example in regard to the application 
of the current system. 

si uvvsu 

47. SPECIAL RULE FOR SATURN : Should Saturn 
be a contributor, the class of longevity declines. Some advocate, 
contrarily, an increase of class in this context. If Saturn is in 
own sign or in exaltation, change in class will not occur. Even 
if he is aspected by or conjunct only a malefic, no change 
occurs. ■ . " 



Chapter 43 


435 


?**5W*PT*T | 

q»fa<npjr*w> rsrsr l vwrefis: srsmHl iiycsii 

4 «. 

48. SPECIAL RULE FOR JUPITER : If Jupiter is in 
the ascendant or in the 7th house, and be aspccted by or 
conjunct only benefics, the class of longevity will increase. 

qH tfqfgnhGftsftrci? HY5.ll 

t^rctn; #qOc^57 tot tu°u 

49-50. INCREASE AND FALL IN CLASS OF 

LONGEVITY : From very short life to short life, from short 
life to medium life, from medium life to long life and from long 
life to extremely long life are the increases in the classification 
of longevity when Jupiter warrants an increase. The reverse is 
true if Saturn warrants a fall in the span of life. 

anqqt agur tfan *rqmsa?n « 

qrfatn *TT HSLf II 

51. (Maitreya says) : You have narrated various kinds of 
longevity computations. Please favour me by denoting subtle 
classes there of and poor and long life spans. 

gtnifbwi ****** *N**» i 

fs«j #qT$fa?i nx^ti 

52. (Parasara replies) : These are seven-fold, viz. 

Balarishta, yogarishta, short, medium, long, super-natural (Divya) 
and illimitable. 

UMiPire 5 t*tt tfttnfw ■at ¥%^rfw: i 

q^TTT 315^ ggcqftarg IIX^II 

fwifa*rc?T i 

USOfll 

53-54. The life span in Balarishta is 8 years, in Yogarishta 
20 years; in short, medium and long lives 32, 64 and 120 years 



436 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


in order are the spans. Super natural life span is for 1 000 years. 
Above this supernatural life span of 1000 years it is Amifayu or 
illimitable longevity which can be acquired only by Merits. 

an* «rpnfr*u: wrr 3ifa?Tro5a5T unnu 

55. LIMITLESS LONGEVITY : Should Cancer ascend 
with Jupiter and the Moon there in while Venus and Mercury 
are in angles and others are in 3rd, 6th and 11th, the native will 
obtain limitless longevity. 

fcsifaisVifsn': 'nmtsqiSTfrnn frail 
jnrenit nn^u 

56. SUPER-NATURAL LONGEVITY: One having benefics 
in angles/trines as malefics are in 3rd, 6th and 1 1th will obtain 
super-natural life span (one thousand years). The 8th house 
in this case should be one of benefic-owned signs. 

^ «irTT3f?rfaiSi t 

fSTCfW f?5I 1 ll^ll 

57. LIVING TILL THE END OF YUGA : One born in 
Cancer ascendant will live till the end of the yuga if Jupiter is 
in an angle and be in Gopuramsa while Venus is in a trine and 
be in Paaravatamsa. 

gtV iixdi 

58. LIVING THE LIFE SPAN OF A SAGE : Jupiter in 
Simhasanamsa being in the ascendant, Saturn in Devalokamsa 
and Mars in Paaravatamsa— if these are so, one will enjoy the 
life span as due to a sage. 

^n*j: ?f*n i 

345ft q>TT?ni ^ until 

59. Good yogas increase the life span and bad yogas 
decrease the same (as arrived by mathematical means). Hence 



Chapter 43 437 

I tell you such yogas as to know of full, medium and short span 
combinations. 

* 7r?nferdf i 
^^JTT arrsftf yFIJTWfcT?! 

60. If an angle contains a benefic while the ascendant lord 
is conjunct or in aspect to a benefic or Jupiter in particular, the 
native will live a foil span of life, 

eTfVUt ^rsftf ytftTT^ f^vld 11$ $11 

61. Should the ascendant lord be in an angle in con- 
junction with or in aspect to Jupiter and Venus, full life span 
will result. 

'Tl'Tgft * g^Tl^fiirftfktfcT II^U 

62. If at birth 3 planets are exalted, out of which the lords 
of ascendant and 8th are inclusive, as the 8th is devoid of a 
malefic tn it, full life span will result, 

*it<ni$3ii 

63. Long life is denoted if 3 planets are in the 8lh, in 
exaltation, own/friendly divisions while the ascendant lord is 
strong. 

%*ufi wfaRT: i 

aspsa^sfr: u$xit 

64. If Saturn or the ascendant lord is conjunct with any 
exalted planet, long life will result. 

fafrmn#: %r«fsnFt«nT: i 

* 

65. Long life will be enjoyed if malefics are in 3rd, 6lb 
and 1 Ith while benefics are in angles. 



438 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastrn 


farfttj * «n^ 

66. If the 6th, 7lh and 8th are occupied by benefics while 
malefics are in 3rd and 11th, full life span will follow the birth. 

Mini 1 

tfifi?* * T?rin: ^w g wra i ft f$ 

67. If the 8th lord is friendly to the Sun while malefics are 
in the 6th and 12th as the ascendant lord is in an angle, the 
native will live the full span of life. 

3TT*J: gq wfcW T: «mT: n*T I 

tihfmij f*K*i i u^n 

68. O excellent of the Brahmins, if a malefic is in the 8th 
while the 10 lord is exalted, one will be long-lived. 

wHrrrfaf^ 

69. Long life will follow if a dual sign ascend at birth while 
its lord i 9 in an angle oe in exaltation or in a trine, 

raw *i w i$ wvwgrnfj i 

l> qrtf if* frmV *W*ngw*T uv»oii 

70. Should a common sign ascend while two malefics are 
in an angle with reference to strong ascendant lord, long life is 
indicated. 

IT. STS# I 

tr$ 

*ftefarg: im* n^u 

c •> 

fsrWmsfw*^ ?rfar%ai u^n 

71-73. The stronger among the ascendant lord and the 
8th lord if in an angle will confer long life and if in Panaphara 



435 


Chapter 43 

(2nd, 5th, 8th or 11th) medium life. If the said planet be in 
Apoklima (3rd, 6th, 9th or 1 2th) short life will come to pass. 
According to the ascendant lord being friendly, neutral or 
inimical to the Sun, long, medium or short life will result. 

areal*! weimg: snropcHwni 

74. Should Mars and the 3rd lord, or the 8th lord and 
Saturn be combust or (two of either pair) be conjunct malefics 
or aspected by malefics, there will be short life. 

sera viAvl I 

•iraptTT'Tetit *T lt\9HU 

75. If the ascendant lord is in the 6th, 8th or 12th in the 
company of malefics and be devoid of conjunction/aspect of a 
benefic, short life will come to pass. 

'TT^ I 

76. If malefics are in angles devoid of conjunction or 
aspect of bencfics while the ascendant lord is not strong, only 
short life wiil result. 

77. O excellent of Brahmins, if the 12th and 2nd are 
occupied by malefics and be devoid of benefic aspect or 
company, the native will be short-lived. 

faspftirs* iivsqii , 

9 0 S 

78. If the lords of the ascendant and the 8th are bereft of 
dignities and strength, short life will come to pass If they 
are helped by others while being so, medium life will come 
to pass. 



aw mwfarwira: ttwn 


Chapter 44 

Maraka (Killer) Planets 

«J«rt qTTV$*n* ||?U 

]. O sage, you have mentioned a lot about longevity. Be 
kind enough to throw light on Marakas or killers. 

qritagg* T *q rTmq:f«yH' ss fj* ! i 

anrv «i(aimwiH fefW a«n ti^ti 

2-5. O Brahmin, the 3rd and 8th are the two houses of 
longevity. The houses related to death are the 12th from each 
of these, i.e. the 2nd and 7th are Maraka houses. 

Notes : The 3rd house is also a house of longevity as it is 
the 8th from the 8th. The 2nd house — 12ih from the 3rd— and 
the 7th house — 12th from the 8th — are two principle Maraka 
houses. The lords of these houses will also acquire such 
qualities giving life or taking away life. 

?T* *Tm: «Ttfq^!T b‘^TT: II VI 

* $ar: qrf*R*$ * *w qrcrcrewT: i 

fttH ^Taj iivii 
smwfas tflWT I 

famr jtw mxv qftfqRpfc; ny.ii 

3. Out of the two (i.e 2nd and 7th) the 2nd is a powerful 
Maraka house (as against the 7th) The lords of the 2nd and the 
7th, malefics in the 2nd and the 7th and malefics accompanying 
the 2nd and the 7th lords are all known as Marakas. The major 
and sub periods of these planets will bring death on the native 
depending on whether he has a long life, medium life or short life. 



Chapter 44 441 

Notes : The 2nd and 7th are denoted as Maraka houses. 
But the 2nd is given a more important place to kill than the 7th 
house. For the 2nd house acquires an additional qualification of 
being in the 7th from the 8th house. Thus, the 2nd is 12th from 
the 3rd, and 7th from the 8tb. 

If there is a malefic in the 2nd or in the 7th, he will be a 
prime killer while a benefic will not be so. The Dasa periods of 
such planets will inflict death. 

I 

^ u\u 

* 'TPTRt *?TTg faSR wfafT 1 

9&fori tirwRUTOft nun 

6-7. The Dasa of a benefic planet related to the 12th lord 
may also inflict death. End may descend on the native in the 8th 
lord’s Dasa. The Dasa of a planet which is an exclusive malefic 
(i.e. first-rate malefic) may also cause death. 

Notes : The 12th house is also a house of death, for it is 
the terminal house. Malefics related to 2nd, 3rd, 7th and 8th 
will cause death while or not a benefic related to 12th will do so. 
The Dasa of a malefic, whether or not he is a lord of one of these 
houses, will also prove harmful for span of life. However, for 
Saturn, a different approach is recommended. 

The rules given are just general and are hints to decide 
death givers. The life span should be ascertained through other 
Ayurdaya calculations, and the exact dasa periods be decided 
only later on. Simply saying that the 2nd lord’s dasa will bring 
in death and so on and so forth will be a misnomer. The sage 
suggests that the occupants of the 3rd*also will cause death.. Thus 
the 8th and the 3rd, though known as houses of longevity, are 
simultaneously capable of causing death. For the information 
of the reader, the Maraka planets in the ascending are : occu- 
pants of or lords of 12th, 3rd, 8th, 7th and 2nd. The lords/ 
occupants of 6th and 1 1th are second grade killers. The last 
group consists of occupants/lords of 5th, 9th, 10th, 4th and 1st. 
They are the least marakas. However, these can also become 
Marakas depending on the clues given in slokas 15-21 infra. 



442 


Brihat Parasara tJora SastrO 


A difficult subject like longevity cannot be fully explained 
in a chapter like this. The reader may take basic guidelines 
from the present work and other standard works before forming 
an opinion on longevity. 

SRttfq TOR I 

*mq>: ucu 

8. The dasa of a malefic will not cause death in the Antar- 
dasa (sub period) of a benefic planet, although the former, is 
related to the latter, but in the sub period-.pf a malefic planet 
though not related. 

Hqfa * Hfw: ucu 

9. Shold Saturn be ill-disposed and be related to a maraka 
plt^net, he will be the first to kill in preference to other planets, 

a^Ts^f^i *$qTfa fesr ! i 

fqfqaiT^rqqt qtfiT: ^?qiqqe.tRtTTRT: II? oil 

^flR.qUJRt-ITqR^: 'TTH \ 

*gcqG^TT: gT?tTTH | ctaf ^qg*^* II? ? II 

!3WRTg: VTrTTjeq HTHsq ! 1 

q fRUH 11?^ II 

fwa fqaqti*q n^u 

fqrf^tftqr^q fafatlT qTrPfeqq: l 

5RT: qr quiTqrqtf'qq^ feiUrni ! H?VH 

10-14. O Brahmin, I tell you further about Marakas. 
Narrated earlier are three kinds of life spans, viz. short, medium 
and long. Short life is before 31 years, later on upto 64 it is 
med um life and from 64 to 100 it is long life. Beyond 100 the 
longevity is called supreme. O excellent of the Brahmins, it is 
impossible to decide upon longevity till the native is 20 year old. 
Till such year the child should be protected by sacred recitations, 
religious offerings (of ghee etc. to consecrated fire as prescribed 



443 


Chapter 44 

by Vedas etc.) and medical treatments, for premature death may 
descend on the child due to sins of father or mother or of its 
own (in the previous birth). 

«pit nufwsw? i 
^ n?v.u 

sTHirt i i 

*«TR 3 qf<W#<T II? VI 

em ^rifaiPTfuq: \ 

3rraPtfT> ■ar farerift f^r ! i 

mrqft qmrjV a) ii^u 

tsrc3Tfaq^uqf ^ ’fnt ffrcRH^q: i ; 

n?en 

*7irqrT qter sfa i 

tT?T^?TT?rTT fa* I Ttn^C3“rf%H^T^: ll^oll 
S^rTT ^ anw^tj HTSvft g^REP: I 
crew tm i y i R gr *1% *t qjtsmfasfcr ir?ii 

15-21. I further mention about the Maraka planets. 
One bom with short life combinations may face death in the 
Dasa denoted by Vipat star (3rd from birth star); one of medium 
life may die in the dasa denoted by Pratyak star (5th from birth 
star). In the dasa denoted by Vadha star (7th from birth star), 
one with long life may obtain his end. The dasa of the lord of 
22nd decanate or the one of 23rd, 3rd, 5th or 7th asterisms may 
also cause death. The lords of the 2nd and 1 2th counted from 
the Moon sign may bring death, this is true when the said ruler 
is a malefic and if he be a benefic there will be (only) diseases 
(but not death). Death may come to pass in the dasa of the 6th 
lord and in the sub periods of 6th/8th/12th lords. Should there 
be many Marakas (endowed with the power of killing) and be 
strong, there will be diseases, miseries etc. in the respective 
major and sub periods. Thus these are Marakas (as above) and 
are primarily related to descend death upon the native. Accor- 
ding to their dispositions there may be death or difficulties. 



444 


Brihat Parasara ffora Sastra 

Notes : The Maraka power of a planet may be correlated 
to the span of life arrived by other calculations. If both 
coincide there will be death. If there is a variation, there will 
not be death but difficulties equal to death like miseries, diseases, 
poverty etc. 

qisfa tfq<r: n^n 

q q fq^q: RR?nqR?iRqfa i 
qfiR% 5If»T *TgRRq qfaqq: ll^tl 
^csisc?fTE<ntr> q%w \ 

q 5RT WfFqq: tl^vil 

22-24. RAHU AND KETU AS MARAKAS : If Rahu or 
Ketu be in the ascendant, 7th, 8th or 12th thereof, or be in the 
7th from a Maraka lord or be with such a planet, they acquire 
powers of killing in their major or sub periods. For one born 
in Capricorn or in Scorpio, Rahu will be a Maraka. Should 
Rahu be in the 6th, 8th or 12th, he will give difficulties in his 
dasa periods. He will not, however, do so if aspected by or 
conjunct a benefic. 

Notes : Important places for Rahu/Kctu to acquire power 
of killing are the aseendant, 7th. 8th or 12th. The 2nd house is 
naturally added as another node will be in the 2nd when one is 
in the specified 8th house. They will not be Marakas if they 
are in the 3rd, 9th, 5th and Jlth houses. If a node joins a Maraka 
planet tor is in the house of a Maraka planet) it will act as a 
Maraka. Rahu is termed as a primary maraka for Capricorn 
and Scorpio ascendants. If he is in one of the adverse houses 
for these ascendants his dasa will bring death or intolerable 
difficulties. 


g qfaqr Tfw q^ \ 

qT q$RHIT qfa: 1 

q^^qTf«T-3T*[isr*rr»T u^u 



445 


Chapter 44 

cTcift ¥TpT-TTi»qf ?^sfq ST f§«r ! \ 

e Woe 

ftrufaert tjfasfcqi stotst s%ste?n?T irvsii 

Strfp^KT SScTST^ 5 PU 5 TT? ST »jfcTS%?T I 

q?ffa crowfovzri ^ 9T slfaj^ fa^T H^ssll 

tfa f sa TfssT ars rt^s <r^fa i 

a?ffa vqtfnft slfa^ sift ita * ircii 

« « • 

5ST*l rRuf 3^7 fifflS ! I 

orffa gs®TT ijs^ 113 ©11 

q?fcr ^fir: i 

?rf%R^T s§tf*msT qffc-mtu 

25-31. THIRD HOUSE AND DEATH : O excellent of 
Brahmins, if the Sun, being with strength, is in the 3rd house 
from the ascendant, one will obtain his death due to a king (or 
legal punishments). The Moon in the 3rd will cause death due 
to tuberculosis while wounds, weapons, fire and thirst will cause 
death through Mars in the 3rd. If the 3rd be aspected or 
occupied by Saturn and Rahu, death will be through poison, 
water or fire, or fall from heights or confinement. Dearth will 
surely come to descend through insects or leprosy if the Moon 
and Gulika occupy or aspect the 3rd house. Mercury aspecting 
or occupying the 3rd will bring death followed by fever. Jupiter 
in the 3rd or aspecting the 3rd witl cause death by swelling or 
tumours. Urinary diseases will cause death if Venus is in the 3rd 
or aspects the 3rd. Many planets aspecting or occupying will 
bring death through many diseases. 

Notes : The sage brings in the 3rd house in the context of 
death. According to the planets related to 3rd house by conjunc- 
tion or aspect, death will descend on the native through the 
following causes. 

The Sun — lfcgal punishments, death-awards etc. (also 

cardiac problem) 

The Moon — tuberculosis (lung disorders etc.) 

Mars — ■ Wounds (accidents etc.), weapons (encoun- 

ter), fire (also electricity) and thirst. 
Saturn/Rahu — poison, water, fire, confinement, foils etc. 



446 


Brihat Parasara flora Sastra 


Moon and Gulika 

Mercury 

Jupiter 

Venus 

Mixed planets 


— insects (scorpion, bees, snakes etc.) or 
leprosy. 

— severe fever (typhoid etc.) 

— swelling, tumour, etc. (also jaundice, 
dropsy etc.) 

— urinary disorders (kidney troubles, venereal 
diseases etc.) (for females leucorrhea). 

— various reasons 


KrTtq H 1 

32, If the 3rd house is occupied by a benefic, death will 
be in an auspicious place (like a shrine) and if by a malefic in 
sinful places. Mixed occupation will yield mixed results in this 
regard. 

srr^r * i 
qfasfqT ! U^U • 

33. Consciousness will prevail at,, the time of death if 
Jupiter or Venus be in the 3rd. With others therein, there will 
be unconsciousness before death. 


faretrift ^ qfq ! ii^ vii 

34. According to the 3rd house being a movable, fixed or 
dual sign, death will be in a foreign place (other than native 
place), in one’s own house or on the way. 


fMqxi 'pfqq qu: 1 

gqs^sffcTfl) Jjwr-S ^ U^XII 

vnt- qr ^ sjrtst 5* * T>qra wtn qqV i 
fqqraqr W\\ q<qfq^q> HmUtR ! ii^u 

35-36 : OCCUPANTS OF THE 8TH HOUSE : Note the 
occupant of the 8th house from the ascendant. If it is the Sun, 
death will be through fire, the Moon water, Mars weapons, 
Mercury fever, Jupiter diseases, Venus hunger and Saturn thirst. 



447 


Chapter 44 

arestt snfo ■q > 

?ftq *|fa*eiqT 5HT 'nq^^f^PIT qfa: ll^\9ll 

37. Shou d the 8ih house be occupied or aspcctcd by a 
benefic while the 9th lord is conjunct a benefic the native will 
die in a shrine. If malefics take the role of benefics as above, 
death will be in a place other than a shrine. 

*TcJJ*T r *nfca: i 

qfbiIT*T: Siq*qT$q W^W 

TO re’FTTeTTSTC q: li^ll 

38-39. FATE OF THE CORPSE : Should there be a 
bcnefic’s decanatc in the 8th (i.e. the 22nd decanate being so), 
the corpse will be burnt in fire (as prescribed in Sastras); if a 
malefic's decanate be there, the body will be thrown away in 
water. If the decanate in question is owned by a mixed planet 
the dead body will only dry up. If it be a serpent decanate, the 
body will be eaten away by animals, crows etc. 

wr# - qwjqtsqircq *f*^pra%?ftaq5y i 
qftsffqqftsrRTtrsq cqrqsmf: st^ftrai: HVoii 

• 40. SERPENT DECANATES : The 2nd and 3rd Jeca- 
nates in Cancer, the initial one in Scorpio and the last one in 
Pisces are designated as serpent decanates. 

tro>*ra Ararat faqqt f^rnr ! w\\\ 
qvgt: fqtjqfaTxT k 

qfjrs^qfq^iN ^HfiTviR q&T gsft: WRW 

41-42. PRE-NATAL ABODE : O excellent of Brahmins 
the stronger of the luminaries occupying a decanate of Jupiter 
denotes descent from the world of gods. If the said decanate be 
of Venus or the Moon the descent is from the world of the 
Manes, if be of the Sun or Mars it is from the world of the dead 
(of Yama) and if be of Mercury or Saturn it is from the bell. 



448 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


OTnfrft qqra*m \ 
t^lpira^WnT Hq^ilKTTftTfPRT: UY^ll 
W CT5T TTOTfoq*HT«ni>: l 

?r f!T3f rffal l IIYYI1 

tmr w>5^if?-?rf^cm^qtmssiTT: 'wh i 
fRTF^t^Sfa tii-'nifll ! HYX.U 

43-45. ASCENT AFTER DEATH : According to the 
following planets in the 12th, 7th, 6th or the 8th, the native will 
attain such worlds after death: Juriter — heaven, the Mooo or 
Venus— the world of Manes, Mars/ Sun— earth (i.e. rebirth), 
Mercury/Saturn — hell. Should the said houses be not occupied, 
the native will go to the world as indicated by stronger of the 
decanate lords related to the 6th and the 8th. The relative 
planet’s exaltation etc. will denote the high, medium and low 
status the native will obtain in the said world. 

fff^T ! 1 

tCTmTOrafta tfwfastnfa pra ! nv^u 

46. Other planets and Rasis becoming Marakas are being 
discussed in the chapter related to Dasas. 


sre jgTTOnHTra: uvstn 

Chapter 45 

Avasthas Of Planets 

g% ! \ 

qq ^TTSqpn gfqtqcs! ^f?TllT %ftr qr*qen^l II ? M 

1. o sage, you have earlier stated that the Avasthas (states) 
of planets be considered in the context of planetary effects. Be 
kind to tell me about the same. 



Chapter 45 


449 


«rT?cT^riif fejTsffrrTiT I i 

*n?cng ^nrrarccn arerwr^ m^ii 

2. O excellent of Brahmins, various kinds of planetary 
Avasthas have been expounded. Out of these, I tell you the 
summary of infant and other states (in the first instance). 

3T?r: g^r *j?t: t 

^37: f^rafiTRf ll^tl 

3. INFANT STATE ETC : Infant, youthful, adolescent, old 
and dead are the states of planets placed in the ascending order 
at the rate of six degrees in odd signs. This arrangement is 
reverse in the case of even signs. 

Notes : These 5 Avasthas are known as Baaladi Avasthas. 
For odd signs, the placement concerned will denote the Avastha 
as under : 

Infant state (Baalavastha) — 0 to 6° 

Youthful state (Kumaravastha) — 6 to 12° 
Adolescent state (Yuvavastha) — 12 to 18° 

Advanced state (Vridhdhavastha) —18 to 24" 

In extremis (Mritavastha) — 24 to 30° 

The above order is to be rdversed for placement in an even 

sign. 

qrcfarT ^ | 

gfa it fl^snrimi 

4. RESULTS : One fourth, half, full, negligible and nil 
are the grades of results due to a planet in infant, youthful, 
adolescent, old and dead states. 


*nrgj|?¥rti>: snjw'tairb \ 

5. AWAKENING, DREAMING AND SLEEPING 
STATES : If a planet is in its own sign or in exaltation it is said 
to be in a state of awakening (or alertness). In the sign of a 
friend or of a neutral it is in dreaming state while in enemy’s 
sign or in debilitation it is in a state of sleeping. 



450 


Brilmt Parasara Hora Sastra 

ffTHT ff«U I 

g Riff ^JF*j faffR fgWWH ! ll^H 

rt. According to a planet being in Awakening, Dreaming . 
or Sleeping states, the results due to it will be full, medium 
or nil, 

*>?t: srgfer: *TTOt tfoVr : » 

ffff: ritsRVffiRFn RffaisRTr: nun 

7. OTHER KINDS OF STATES : There are nine kinds 
of other states, viz. Deepta, Swastha, Prarm-dita, Santa, Deena, 
Vikala, Khala, and Kopa. 

‘ff: SffFftsfafaff $ | 

gftfft ffTff: ffff* 5ft*l 11*11 

flff$ Jtffffl: jfaff* fa*ff: Rtqfffaff: I 

ffff: 3ffi$ ff>: WTWWJeftHeu 

ff ffTOT^ q: mzt ff^ff I 

JTRff ffFI ’flTRFt Riffg|l’ 5 U?°H 

8-10. If a planet is in its exaltation sign, it is in Dcepta- 
vastha, in own sign Swastha, in thick friend’s sign Pramudita, 
in friendly sign Santa, in neutral’s sign Deena, in the company 
of a malefic Vikala, in an enemy’s sign Khala, and in being 
eclipsed by the Sun— Kopa. Depending on such a state of the 
planet, the house occupied by it will obtain corresponding 

effects. 

g^ntjFTff: i 

3^1% tit 311 

ffisfq faRfftrsfa ffffcjff: t 
JTfaff: fftsfq Tlfafft ftfaff* ! tl^tl 

» 

ff ff faffs: fffaflfft WW ffRT ll?vti 



Chapter 45 451 

STT: ^TS^HtforT: I 

o 

ST^T ?T T7J?% tffatT: *T 3?T|pT: 

fH^TT^V faspjTdt fa^"T * \ 

gw ?r?g gfer: s snOfatr: u^n 

Tf^TT 3TT* 'TT'TT qwf^T I 

sftfaej <r f^Fftzirssi^T nfk nton 

«7fi?rT: eftfacft mfa 'f^tTPIMftrcnR: II fell 

11-18. YET OTHER AVASTHAS ;. Lajjita, Garvita, 
Kshudita, Trushita, Mudita and'Kshobhita are the other kinds of 
(six) states due to the planets. Placed in the 5th house if a 
planet is associated with a node or with the Sun, Saturn or 
Mars, it is in Lajjitavastba. If a planet is in exaltation or in 
Moolatrikona, it is Gamtavastba. The avastha is Kshudita 
if the planet is in an enemy’s sign, or conjunct an enemy 
or aspected by an enemy or even be in conjunction with 
Saturn. If a planet is in a watery sign and be in aspect 
to a malefic but not a bcnefic, the avastha is called Trushita. 
If a planet is in a friendly sign, or conjunct or aspected 
by a benefic or is conjunct Jupiter, it is said to be in 
Muditavastha. If a planet is conjunct the Sun and is aspected by 
or conjunct a malefic or is aspected by an enemy, it is said to 
be in Kshobhitavashta. The houses occupied by a planet in 
Kshuditavastha or Kshobhitavastha are destroyed. 

^4cT5q: n;£l< 

<T9T STfa: M^o(| 

srfaeT: ^rfq tr n^?u 

5cT5F«IT^ Hfs^rfr ^ liq 9 1 

gercrcft aqn ii^u 



452 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


tnpcr hi \ 

f WT% HTO HTCt H TOTHTg%3fRT*T ! IR^II 

19-23 The learned should estimate the effects due to a 
house in the manner cited above (i.e. with the help of various 
kinds of avasthas), after ascertaining the strength and weakness 
(of the various planets). Weak planets cause reduction in good 
effecs while stronger ones give greater effects. If a planet posited 
in the 10th house is in Lajjitavastba, Kshudhitavastha or 
Kshobhitavastha, the person w 11 always be subjected to miseries. 
If a planet in the 5th house is in Lajjitavastha, there will be 
destruction of progeny, or there will be only or e surviving child. 
Surely the wife of the native will die if there is a planet in the 
7th in Kshp&titavastha or in Trushitavastha. 

T*?* VHTOJtH fararfa TOTH I 

’OTTTOTH <TO OfacTFJ tRttll 

fTOHTOHTOTHfHHtHTO hV?TO \ 

rs k\ « > 

WSTHTOfTOTHt HfTOItTRHTHt 

ffefTOTfHVTTT: lRV.lt 
HfTOHHTTOHTlfH faTOTTHHftT I 

5?nTTOTTO HTO T>f5TV e TTfH^fH H |R^|| 

'TO JHffT H t 

fqrvjTTOfCTHTllf IR\9|| 

TfHTfq fr^ft^THqniT fTTFlT- 

HftTOTOrf*TTta> fTOTTOT IRqlt 

n sfwnft qcaqrmffuqnT: t 

■fHHHfTqfTHRTTO^TfH: 

^HfrFiqfTOtqy hto iRtti 



Chapter 45 


453 

24-29. EFFECTS OF GAR VITA VASTHA ETC . : A planet 
in Garvitavastlia will cause happiness through new houses and 
gardens, regalhood, skill in arts, financial gains at all times, and 
improvement in business. A planet in Muditavastha will give 
residences, clothes, ornaments, happiness from lands and wife, 
happiness from relatives, living in royal palaces, destruction of 
enemies and acquisition of wisdom and learning. A planet in 
Lajjitavastha will give aversion to God, loss of intelligence, 
loss of child, interest in evil speeches and listlessness in good 
things. A planet in Kshobhitavastha will give acute penury, 
evil disposition, miseries, financial debacles, distress to feet and 
obstruction to income due to royal wrath. A planet in Kshudhita- 
vastha will cause downfal due to grief and passion, grief on 
account of relatives, physical decline, troubles from’enemies 
financial distress, loss of physical strength and an eclipsed mind 
due to miseries. A planet in Trushitavastha will cause diseases 
through association with females, leading over wicked (or evil) 
deeds, loss of wealth due to one’s own men, physical weakness 
miseries caused by evil people and decline of honour. 

iwtfwt tputi^n 

wm ^ ^ 4^* i 

fan ^ 4f^ifa fraifas; n^u 

IT I 

faq>3faH U^II 

cTTT ^ET; 1 

Tfaf^ 'fffa Vrof 4>m fatftsfacT n 
•usrfaqi^sTRfajT g?r: i 

TfafafeltT: II^VH 

?PTT 1 

^ tffa faiftifa<T n^icii 

5^ stot: sfatrmr *n»fa i 

4RV *Wi> Wrs^gsstm U^II 



454 Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 

vrcrtv: m ^*Tcn i 

BrfeZ^GST fWCT ^ q>q*n*0*5*T II^WI 

30-37. CALCULATION OF SAYAN A AND OTHER 
AVASTHAS : I now tell you of the avasthas viz. Sayana, 
XJpavesana, Netrapani, Prakasana, Gamana, Aagamana, Sabha, 
Agama, Bhojana, Nrityalipsa, Kautuka and Nidra, and the 
Chesthas of such avasthas. Note the number of the stars (from 
Aswini) occupied by the planet for which Avastha is to be 
calculated. Multiply that number by the number denoted by 
the planet (Sun l, Moon 2 etc.). The figure so arrived at be 
again multiplied by the number of Navamsa the planet 
is in. Add to this the number of birth asterism, the number 
of ghatis of birth and the number of signs the ascendant 
gained from Aries. This figure be divided by 12 and the 
remainder will indicate the corresponding Avastha of the planet. 
The sub state in the said Avastha can be found out thus : 
Multi ply the figure denoted by the Avastha concerned (i c. 
Sayana 1, Upavesana 2 etc) by the same figure and increase it 
by tbe figure denoted by the Anka value for the first syllable of 
the native’s personal name. Divide the product so obtained 
by 12. . The remainder there of be further increased by constant 
planetary additamehts, thus \ Sun 5, Moon 2, Mars 2, 
Mercury 3, Jupiter 5, Venus 3, Saturn 3, Rahu 4 (and Ketu 4). 
(Here the planet means the one for whom the sub state is being 
known.) The product so arrived at be divided by 3. In th 
process if the remainder is I, it is Drishti; if 2 Cheshta and if (, 
Vicheshta. 

Notes : So far narrated arc three different groups of 
Avasthas. The present Avasthas are called Sayanadi Avasthas. 
These are of supreme importance as compared to the other kinds 
of Avasthas. 

• The following formula may be adopted to know about the 
planet’s Avastha (Sayanadi) at birth. 

(sxpxn) + (a+g +r) = Avastha 
12 

Where as ‘s’ denotes the serial number of. the star occupied 
by the planet, counted from Aswini at birth; ‘p’ denotes the 



Chapter 45 


455 


status of the planet counted from the Sun (i.e. Sun 1, Mercury 
4 etc; ‘n’ denotes the planet’s Navamsa position (i.e. I to 9 
Navamsas'l; ‘a’ denotes Janma Nakshatra (or ruling star, i.e. the 
one occupied by the Moon); ‘g’ denotes the ghati in which birth 
took place (i.e. 20gh 2 vigh is 21gh) and *r’ denotes the 
ascendant's order counted from Aries (i.e. Cancer 4, Leo 5, so 
on and. so forth). 

In place of ‘n’ given above, some translators interpret the 
word ‘Amsa’ as degree occupied by the planet which is obviously 
not correct. In this connection, the reader’s attention is drawn 
to Balabhadra’s Hora Ratna, ch 3 wherein the author 
Balabhadra himself gives an example for the Sun being in the 
7th Navamsa of Leo and thus he considered only 7 as multiplier. 
He has not taken in to account the Sun’s degree. He quotes 
Adhbhuta Sagara as his authority for calculation of Sayanadi 
Avasthas. It will thus be clear that \Amsa’ is Navamsa and 
not degree in this context. 

. Also please note that Aagamanavastha (the 6th one) is 
known as Gamanechchavastha by some exponents. 

Take a case now as an example with the following data. 
The Sun in Krittika Nakshatra, 3rd Navamsa of Taurus (i.e in 
T 12* Taurus), birth star Krittika, birth at 30gh 33vigh, and 
ascendant in Scorpio. With these we produce following 
information, keeping the formula given above. 


s = 3 a = 3 

p = 1 g = 31 

n — 3 r = 8 

Hence to find out the Avastha, 

(3x1x3) + (3 + 31 + 8) _5I 


12 


12 


=remainder 3 


With the help of remainder 3, we count three Avastnas 
from Sayana. This indicates Netrapani Avastha for the Sun. 

Similarly for 9 planets, such Avasthas be found out. In 
a given horoscope, the factors V, ‘g’ and V will be identical 
for all the 9 planets while factors ‘s’, ‘p’ and ‘n‘ will be 
variable. 

After knowing the Avasthas of various planets, we have 
to find out the sub state of each Avastha. The formula for 
knowing sub-state is made in two stages, as under. 



456 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


StaS c , ; <AXA) + R 

Stage 2 : (R-fpa) 3 — sub state 

Where ‘A’ is Avastha, ‘fs’ is first syllable’s value with 
reference to the native’s personal name, R is remainder in 
stage 1, and ‘pa’ is planetary additament denoted in the above 
slokas, such as Sun 5, Venus 3 etc. The remainder at stage 2 
will denote sub state such as 1 is Drishti, 2 cheshta and 
0 vicheshta. 

We need information about Anka value or value for first 
syllable of the name of a person. These arc : 

1 for *r, 'S, y, £T and ^ 

2 for 3T, sf, and ?T 

3 for *T, It, <T, "T, and *T 

4 for tj, q, J, «r, % x and *T 

5 for sfl, % 5, T, it and ^ 

Now with the above data, find the sub state for the Sun 
id Netrapani Avastha as per the example given supra. First 
syllable of the name is "Sa” (?r). Hence, 

Stage 1 . ~~ yy~ — Remainder 1 

Stage 2 : = 0 

Remainder zero indicates sub state as Vicheshta, in Netra- 
pani Avastha. 

Uvi fq|: 

winsfTBt g srqrssnTq i 

WWbT q*T qq: n n „ 

38-39. EFFECTS OF CHESHTA ETC. : If the sub state 
is Dnshh m an Avastha, the results being stated for the Avastha 
will be medium, full in Cheshta and negligible in Vicheshta. 
The good and bad effects of planets be deciphered based on the 



457 


Chapter 45 

strength and weakness of the planets. In exaltation, the planets 
reveal effects in a pronounded manner due to (good) avasthas. 

Notes : If a planet is in good Avastha and is in Cheshta 
(sub state), the good effects will be full. If the sub state is 
Vicheshta, the good effects are neutralised. If the sub state is 
Drishti, good effects will be feebly felt. A planet in exaltation 
will give the good effects due to a particular Avastha in a fuller 
measure. 

If a planet is in bad Avastha with Cheshta as sub state, 
the evil effects will be less. With Drishti, evil effects will be 
visibly felt. If Vicheshta is sub state, bad effects are neutralized. 
In debilitation, the evil effects due to an Avastha will be 
pronounced. 

Each planet gives different effects — good or bad— according 
to the Avastha. No constant evaluation be made just with the 
name of an Avastha. This is what is conveyed in the following 
slokas. 

qjf-IT HTTHT \ 

zm 5 ^ qqftqqTg: qqq sunn:n*cii 

*fT2eTrffKfa$IT*ITvft faqrqfesTfqTrft HT. I^lrT l 

^5>TfaTcl: SR qcjfqq: ^TI q$q%?iq?q: U*?tl 

5TT: fqtqft 'TT>T?PR> I 

3?TTfqvT: qfTgqfqrt: qqR qq?TT \ 

q^rsq* qfqfq qr^qftq ntf^u 

qqT§T: fqqqTf^qrfaqiq qq?I q^tq: uwu 

qr^ITTcft qqqiTf^cf) q£ sqqq^ qqqifq^fq: I 

qfqq> fqqqTfaqcft qgq: fqfq: fqq: UViUl 
qqjq^ qr; qdqqnTeRqT: 

qqrqTrq^feiV fqqwT gqisrc i 

q5?tITTqqiqTTqqTf?qq> q^Rqt 

fqfqqfqqq<qq: $qTqRraT: qt: 



458 


Brlhat Parasara Mora SastrA 

Wtfacft *T*T I 

a[4wfT%!t qqtajcTSqTq^ - f^H4d1 cRT ?RT U'tf'aU 

^ 4 1 apwwt 

^^r^rcr: q| q| qqr qqr f^ \ 

3ra?q<TT fsR>qqT cT*TT qqT^q>3R 

c 

TqiqtfpRqufa: jmqmfqqt *T% UYqU 
fafSTvft^: *RT qf^rT: qfecT: iPFqfqgTqqaqvTiqTforr: I 
Tt^q> ekitt^ qrfqq^fiq^ luen 

STHqTJf q^af smsftrcrcqftqq: \ 

q^aTSTl^n? fqFFT: ^Toq^israiq't gqj qtlgfc || J( o |< 

fqTPRTITqqfjm q^rTT fqSTR^ ? fl qqqsrg^ \ 

Tq> fqtVT qqfrpq ".?q qnfqaTqqNi: MH$|| 

40-51. EFFECTS OF THE SUN'S AVASTHAS AT 
BIRTH : If the Sun is in Sayanavastha, the native will incur 
digestive deficiency, many diseases, stoutness of legs, bilious 
vitiation, ulcer in the anus, and heart strokes. If the Sun is in 
Upavesanavastha, the native will suffer poverty, will carry loads, 
will indulge in litigations, be hard-hearted, wicked, and will lose 
in his undertakings. If the Sun is in Netrapani avastha, the 
native will always be happy, wise, helpful to others, endowed 
with prowess and wealth, very happy, and will gain royal 
favours. If the Sun is in Prakasanavastha, the native will be 
liberal in disposition, will have plenty of wealth, be a significant 
speaker in the assembly, will perform many meritorious acts, be 
greatly stroDg and be endowed with charming beauty. If the 
Sun is in Gamanavastha the native will be disposed to live in 
foreign places, be miserable, indolent, bereft of intelligence and 
wealth, be distressed due to fear and be short-tempered. If the 
Sun is in Agamanavastha, the native will be interested in others’ 
wives, be devoid of his own men, be interested in movements, 
skilful in doing evil deeds, be dirty, ill disposed and be tale- 
bearer. If the Sun is in Sabbavastba, the native will be disposed 
to help others, be always endowed with wealth and gems, be 
virtuous, endowed with lands, new houses and robes, be very 



Chapter 45 


459 


strong, very affectionate to his friends and be very kindly 
disposed. If the Sun is in Aagamavastha, the native will be 
distressed due to enemies, fickle-minded, evil-minded, emaciated, 
devoid of virtuous acts' and intoxicated with pride. If the Sun 
is in Bhojanavastha, the native will experience pains in joints, 
will lose money on account of others' females, will have strength 
declining off and on, be untruthful, will incur head aches, will 
eat remnant food and will take to bad ways. If the Sun is in 
Nrityalipsavastha, the native will be honoured by the learned, 
be himself a scholar, will have knowledge of poetry etc., and be 
adored by kings on the earth. If the Sun is in Kautukavastha, 
the native will always be happy, be endowed with spiritual 
knowledge, will perform sacrificial riles, will move amidst kings, 
wilt have fear from enemies, be charming-faced and be endowed 
with knowledge of poetry. If the Sun is in Nidravastha, the 
native will possess eyes laden with sleepiness (i.e. be always 
drowsy), will live in foreign (or distant) places, will incur harm 
to wife and will faee financial destruction. 

Notes : Balabhadra gives some additional information in 
regard to planetary Avaslhas based on ‘Adbhuta Sagaram’. 
The same is correspondingly added for the benefit of the reader, 
along with my comments, avoiding repetition of the views of 
Parasara. 

The Sun in Upavesanavastha will make one an artisan, 
black in complexion, devoid of learning, miserable and serve 
others In Netrapani Avastha— all kinds of happiness, if the 
Sun is in the 5th, 9th and 10th or 7th house. In other houses, 
this Avastha of the Sun will give eye diseases and enmity with all. 
If in Prakasanavastha, the native will be meritorious, religious, 
liberal, will enjoy pleasures, be equal to a prince and enjoy the 
status of Kubera, the Hindu god of wealth. However, the said 
Prakasanavastha of the Sun placed in the 7th or the 5th house 
will cause loss of the first child and will produce many litiga- 
tions. If the Sun is in Ga.nanavastha, the native will incur 
disease of the feet and be very mean. If in Agamanavastha, the 
Sun in 12th or in 7th will destroy progeny and will give very 
limited wealth. If in Aagamavastha, the Sun will give many 
miseries, ugly appearance, and foolishness. However, he will 
give wealth. The Sun in Bhojanavastha in the 9th house will 



460 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 

cause many hindrances to spiritual and religious undertakings. 
In other houses, this position will cause head and ear diseases] 
apart from joint pains. Though Parasara states that the native 
with the Sun in Kautukavastha will have fear from enemies 
Balabhadra exempts such evil effect for the 6th house position! 
The Sun in Kautukavastha in other houses will give a number of 
daughters, two wives, itch, excellence, liberality etc. If the Sun is 
in Nidravastha, the native will be predisposed to incur piles and 

elephantasis, be absolutely very peaceless and will be liable to 
lose his first child. 

fsrafqqmqr: listen 
dmfTcft *TgST: qP5>Tt | 

<TTf^R> «qi*t UX3II 

tarauft ^qrqrq qft i 

3R?q3Tvqq?> ara: fq^Tf^er: usmi 

qqj ncTqfcT ^ 

fqqrm: i 

qf^m 

fqqrqT qtqrf^: gtqqgfqrf rftqqrRq UXXII 
fa&TC qTqqcft fqmqR fo?he|: *i) TT%<fT I 

?RTf«^q: qf>q'hrcmR> SR«sq«" qq* WTT§T:' ns^ | 

*th> qr*r>q> ;r> ( 

»jviqw-trt> *Nt qftmtqfqqfstrT: uxv»|| 

ifaMTdtf HqrrfR: Wf%frcqnf*RfrTT*T I 
^TTrTgrq *rot% 
qTqffrfoftfafaqft 5«T5I: IIXcll 
fqaRTqq^r *Tcqf qiRTvft I 

fT€<iR^ %*nq: |i)(fc|| 



Chapter 45 461 

3UrRtfrT gfanTHBT^ ?T STR*T U^oh 

5jeqfaqrR^ g^RK^R: | 

nWt f$ gm*> mgcni^n 

ncwfcT ^ srgfa gqrg gr sm?gtT \ 

*nrr 5*ra?g gTRnrcfeTRiwigiT n^u 
*THgnt gr^TraT ^gir i 

^%s^Tmf5 :: g?Tfgfmm: f?igT^ tffa fgfggtj^4: u^n 

52-63. EFFECTS OF THE MOON'S AVASTH AS AT 
BIRTH : If the Moon is in Sayanavastba, the native will be 
honourable, sluggish, given to sexual lust, and will face financial 
destruction. If the Moon is in Upavesanavastha, the native will 
be troubled by diseases, be dull-witted, be not endowed with 
mentionable wealth (i.e. will have only negligible wealth), be 
hard-hearted, will do unworthy acts and will steal others' 
wealth. If the Moon is in Netrapani avastba, the native will be 
troubled by great diseases (long lasting in nature), be very garru- 
lous, wicked and will indulge in bad deeds. Should the Moon 
be in Prakasavastba, the native will be famous in the world, will 
have his virtues exposed through royal patronage, be surrounded 
by horses, elephants, females and ornaments and will visit 
shrines. If the Moon is in Gamaiiavastha, with decreasing rays, 
the native will be sinful, cruel and always troubled by afflictions 
of sight; if with increasing rays, the native will be distressed due 
to fear. If the Moon is in Agamanavastba, the native will be 
honourable, will suffer diseases of feet, will secretly indulge in 
sinful acts, be poor and devoid of intelligence and happiness. If 
the Moon is in Sabbavastha, the native will be eminent among 
men, honoured by kings, and kings of kings, be very beautiful, 
wills ubdue the passion of women, be skilful in sexual acts and 
be virtuous. If the Moon is in Agamavastba, the native will be 
garrulous, and virtuous and if the said Moon is of dark fortnight 
the native will have two wives, be sick, highly wicked and be 
violent. If the Moon is in Bhojanavastha, the native will be 
endowed with honour, conveyances, attendants, social status, 



462 


Brihat Parusara Hora Sastra 


wife and daughters, provided she is Full (tpjf qvjj; if she is in 
dark fortnight these auspicious effects will fail to come. If the 
Moon is in Nrityalipsavastha and be endowed with (fortnightly) 
strength, the native will be strong, will have knowledge of songs 
and be a critic of beauty of things; if the said Moon is of dark 
fortnignt, the person will be sinful If the Moon is in Kautuka- 
vastha, the native will attain kingship, lordship over wealth and 
skill in sexual acts and in sporting with harlots. Should increa- 
sing Moon conjunct Jupiter be in Nidravastha, the native will be 
quite eminent. Devoid of Jupiter’s conjunction, if the Moon is 
in the said A vastha, the native will lose his wealth on account of 
females, and female jackaJs will be crying around his abode (as 
though if were a cemetery). 

Notes : With the Moon in the ascendant in Sayanavaslha, 
the native will incur diseases of rectum, be poor and highly 
irritable. In other houses, this condition will not give these 
defects so specifically. If weak Moon be in this Avastha (in any 
house), the right side of the native’s body will incur damages 
caused by fire. There will be damage to teeth if the Moon is in 
Dpavcsanavastha. The Moon in Netrapani Avastha will bring 
eye diseases, elephantasis, etc. and will mtfke the native 
garrulous. If the Moon is in Gamanavastha, it will cause 
diseases of the head and brain. There will be two wives and many 
daughters if the Moon is in Agamavastha. Bhojanavastha of the 
Moon will bring fear from snakes and water. The Moon in 
Nrityalipsavastha will give a very lean body and lasting sickness. 
Kautukavastha of the Moon will confer many sons. If the 
Moon is in Nidravastha in the 10th, the native will undergo 
miseries on account of his progeny. The Moon in the 5th or 
the 7th with the same Avastha will bring all kinds of auspicious 
effects. Should she join Rahu in the 5th or 7th, herself being 
in Nidravastha, everything of the native is destroyed and he will 
be laden with a thousand blemishes. 

srgtrr uv*n 



463 


Chapter 45 

*WT ftfagrft ^ITfag'TTiRT: 1 

SforTT ?T?T ?TiR*lcTT \\%%\\ 

SFf>m tRTsftsm??: fRUTR^fis: I 

4 O C 

9^ 9,# gswFcnf^ft^ft *r<h> =tt fw?r: n^vaii 

*T*ft n*R g^sgfM goi^mift ^facTT^g: I 
«gtg*v«3W agarr srgaTcRft ^g^Tta^r: n^cn 
aipnft afaamkT iRmwouft i 

<rrH^m ftg?p?n aftaaanfcnq^R^> tfft ii^u 

I'W S^^warcsJrofr farti: 

wrVr afag^ aaigaa^ fa^Tfaffia: gaTa \ 
sh^a^aiaa- 

sa*aTTasaiaat ag aal *nft a sna'V sr: iivsoii 
mft aafa afa*r ^at aafra^fgat aaig^: < 
Ta^aga^aftaat^a snarafa: fa^at uva^u 

faesahft a aa% aa^ f% i 
ataaaaRt ^rar agat aiaafaa; u\s^u 
afafaRan^ ag^ ^ff*Pnfaf73TRTftRT*nfcT gglft: i 
yaa<a r ^ m a : aaT afrsaT araarar a^Fif a%iaaaT \vs^\\ 

ai^taafa ^g% j% aa: i 

^aaa aafa^tgaPisa: qfaeft aaataareR: iivsvn 

fasTa^at *ft aft astft ataaafaa: i 
aaf aaafrai^ agtft aaatfaa: uvskm 

64-75. EFFECTS OF AVASTHAS OF MARS AT 
BIRTH : If Mais is in Sayanavastha, the native will be troubled 
by wounds, itch and ulcer. If Mars. b'. c Upavcsanavastba, the 
native will be strong, sinful, untruthful, eminent, wealthy and 
bereft of virtues. If Mars be in the ascendant and be in Netra- 
pani Avastba there will be penury; in other houses this state will 
confer rulershipof a city. Should Mars be in Prakasavastha, 
the native will shine with virtues and will be honoured by the 



464 


Brihai Parasara Hora Sastra 


king. Mars in Prakasavastha in the 5th house wifi, however, 
cause loss of children and of wife. If Mars is in the said state 
and be with Rahu, a severe (positional) fall will descend on the 
native. Should Mars be in Gamanavastha the native will be always 
roaming, will have fear of multiple ulcers, will ineur misunder- 
standings with females, will be afflicted by boils, itches etc. and 
will incur financial decline. If Mars be in Agamanavastha, the 
native will be virtuous, endowed with precious gems, will adore 
a sharp sword, will walk with the (majestic) gait of an elephant 
(imparting surprise in the onlooker), will destroy his enemies and 
will remove the miseries of his people. If Mars be in Sabhava- 
stba and be in exaltation the native will be skilful in conducting 
wars, will hold the flag of righteousness aloft and be wealthy; if 
Mars be in the said state in the 5th or 9 th, the native will be 
bereft of learning, if in the 12th childlessness and no wife and no 
friends will result, and if Mars be in other houses than these in 
the said Avastha, the native will be a scholar in a king’s court 
(i.e. be a poet laureate), be very wealthy, honourable and chari- 
table. If Mars be in Agamavastha, the native will be devoid of 
virtues and good deeds, will be distressed by diseases, will acquire 
diseases of the root of the ears tK: & C TRTTtT 

etc.), and severe gout pains, be timid and will befriend evil lot. 
If Mars be with strength while in Bhojanavastha, the native will 
eat sweet-food and if be devoid of strength, the native will 
indulge in base acts and be dishonourable. If Mars be Nrityalips- 
avastha, the native will earn wealth through king and will be 
endowed with fullness of gold, diamonds and corals in his house. 
If Mars be in Kautukavastha the native will be curious in disposi- 
tion and be endowed with friends and sons, if Mars be simul- 
taneously exalted, the native will be honoured by the king and 
the virtuous and be himself virtuous. If Mars be in Nidravastha, 
the native will be short-tempered, devoid of intelligence and 
wealth, be wicked, fallen from virtuous path and troubled by 
diseases. 

Notes : If Mars is in Sayanavastha at birth, the native will 
be libidinous, learned, intelligent and irritable. Should this 
Avastha in particular occur in the 5th or in the 7th, the native 
will lose his first wife and first child as well. If Mars in 5th 
being in Sayanavastha is related to Saturn or Rahu, the native’s 



Chapter 45 465 

head will be severed while with other malefics related to Mars 
in the said state ears/hand will be cut off. 

Should Mars be in Upavesanavastha in the ascendant, the 
native will be extremely sinful, will incur several diseases, indi- 
gent and most unpeaceful. If the said Avastha occurs for Mars 
in the 9th house, the native will lose whole of his wealth apart 
from his wife and progeny. Mars in Netrapani Avastha in the 
ascendant will give poverty and will destroy the native's wife and 
progeny; in other houses this confers on the native all kinds of 
wealth and happiness from wife and children. However, the 2nd 
house position or the 7th house position of Mars in Netrapani 
Avastha will cause fear from lions and snakes apart from giving 
earniDgs from lands. Further the native's wife will predecease him. 
Should Mars bein Prakasanavastha in the 5th or in the 7th house, 
the native will lose his wife and all children. Placed in the 5th 
houie in Prakasanavastha if Mars is conjunct Saturn, the native 
will kill co' vs. Should Mars be in Gamanavastha, the native will 
be active in his assignments, will incur diseases of the joints, 
burning pains in eyes, dental afflictions and the like, will have 
fear from dogs and will adore the guise of a female. These 
effects are for the placement of Mars in the ascendant. In other 
houses, Mars in Gamanavastha will bring royal favours, leader- 
ship and luxuries of the life. 

Shifting over to sloka 69 of our text, in the context 
of Mars being in Agamanavastha, the sage uses "rpjqpaT" 
which has been, however, interpreted as ‘elephant killer’ by 
some commentators. It is actually an indeclinable particle and 
conveys the meaning that the native will walk with the majestic 
gait of an elephant (imparting surprise in the onlookers 

Mars in Agamanavastha will cause piles and diseases of 
rectum. 

If Mars is in Bhojanavastha or in Sayanavastha in the 5th 
house, or in the 8th house, there will be untimely death for the 
native. In other houses, Bhojanavsatha of Mars will confer 
wealth. Should Mars , be in Nrityalipsavastha and be in the 
ascendant, 2nd, 7th or 10th, the native will receive all kinds of 
happiness; there will be miseries galore if Mars is in the 8th or 
9th a part from incurring untimely death. In other houses, this 
state of Mars will make the native akin to Kubera. Mars in the 



466 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


7th or in the 9th in Kautukavastha will give several diseases and 
death of first child and wife. In other houses, this state will 
confer scholarship, various kinds of wealth, two wives and more 
female children. In Nidravastha, Mars in the ascendant, 2nd, 
3rd, 9th, 10th or 11th, will give scholarship, foolishness and 
poverty. The 5th house or 7th house placement of Mars in 
this Avastha will give many miseries and many male children. 
Should Rahu join Mars in Nidravastha in any house the pative 
will have many wives, be miserable, and will suffer from some 
diseases on the surface of feet. 


BTeff tTfST: g£ ll\3$ll 

wtaWt g«iTTfoi<jq: \ 

trgcq: iivs\3U 

ga < K vH gtaff 'PJTTT- 

snn wtpt: n^cii 

sim swig*. srg gtrcf^Tctf fwT*r% trgcg: \ 

»qpn \ 

■ * ftrfawi tw ftrf^ g** 3rg;*m* fa?mg neon 

qrfti ittffe «ww ig^tr 

URtfgfe: I 

g n qfi wnm T *r gron tifam *it 

gfawfw lie? II 

srgfti gjf^rct n*r *rcf?r i 

g*g«T?n arrfH^T ’trafa *n*rcrftwT iic^u 

■gr^T 3TfTf?n% trrr 5TffHHl*T'4^Tf?T: tm i 
•ronton n 'snm n 'rongror ue^n 



Chapter 45 


467 


ijraftrarraft *rg?r: j 

fa^g^TSIBN; ^nTT'TfasrT: *Tl<ra STTSHTTTcft llcVM 

^3^ ^nr*in^ ^cTfirarsfwgr 'r^t i 

^3% 5R^em Tfa: 'T'RIW g*Efg*m *T%: llcstn 

fajifa^ ?r ?m ^rftratnfenihT: i 

S{fc«IW*I5WTRWNt <%»R SiSft Hq^ll 

76-86. : EFFECTS OF MERCURY'S A VASTHAS AT 
BIRTH : Should Mercury in Sayanavasfba be in the ascendant, 
the native will be lame and will have reddish eyes (like the 
black bee); if Mercury be in the said Avastha in other houses, 
the native will be addicted to licentious pleasures and be wicked. 
If Mercury be in Upavesanavastha in the ascendant, the native 
will possess (the seven principle) virtues; if aspectcd by or con- 
junct malefics, penury will result and if by benefics financial 
happiness will follow. If Mercury be in Netrapanl Avastha, the 
native will be devoid of learning, wisdom, wellwishers and satis- 
faction but be honourable; if Mercury be in the 5th house in the 
said Avastha, the subject will be bereft of happiness from wife 
and sons, be endowed with (more) female children and will gain 
abundant finance through royal patronage. If Mercury be in 
Prakasavastha, the native will be charitable, merciful, meri- 
torious, will cross the boundaries of ocean in respect of many 
branches of learning, be endowed with great faculty of discri- 
mination and will destroy evil people. If Mercury be in 
Gamanavastha the native will visit the court of kings on many 
occasions and Goddess Laksbmi (denoting wealth) will dwell in 
his abode. If Mercury be in Agamanavastha, the same effects 
due to his being in Gamanavastha will fructify. If Mercury be in 
Sabhavastba. and be in exaltation, the native will be affluent and 
meritorious at all times, be equal to Kubera (the lord of wealth 
in Hindu mythology) or be a king or a minister, be devoted to 
Lord Vishnu and Lord Suva, be virtuous and will attain final 
emancipation. Should Mercury be in Agamavastha, the native 
will serve base men and gain wealth thereby and will have two 
sons and one fame-bringing daughter. If Mercury be in 
Bhojanavastha, the native will face financial losses through litiga- 
tions, will physically lose on account of fear from king (i e. will 



Brihat Parasara llora Sastra 


468 

become thin due to royal wrath), fickle-minded and will be 
bereft of physical and conjugal felicity. If Mercury be in 
Nrity ali psa ynstba, the native will be endowod with honour, cen- 
veyances, corals (i.e. gems etc ), sons, friends, prowess and 
recognition in assembly due to his scholarships if with the said 
state Marcury be in a malefic’s sign the native will be addicted to 
prostitutes and will long for licentious pleasures. If Mercury 
be in Kautukavastha, and be in the ascendant, the native will be 
skilful in music; if be in the 7th/8th with the said Avastha one 
will be addicted to courtezans and if in the 9th, the native will 
be meritorious and attain heavens after death. If Mercury be in 
Nidravastba, the native will not enjoy comfortable sleep, be 
afflicted by neck or neck joint (Hmfk) diseases, be devoid of 
coborn, afflicted by miseries galore, will enter into litigations 
with his own men will lose wealth and honour. 

Notes : If Mercury is in the ascendant in Sayanavastha, 
the native will be a eunuch lacking productivity and will be 
devoid of a limb (whereas Parasara is specificly stating that the 
native will be lame), In other houses, this Avastha of Mercury 
will produce abstract penury. Should Mercury be in his own 
sign in Upavesanavastha, the native will be endowed with all 
kinds of happiness, be meritorious and liberal but will incur 
diseases of the sight. If Mercury is in Prakasavastha, the native 
will be interested in Vedic lore and will continue to be rich 
although he may be very charitable to give away anything. 
Gamanavastha of Mercury, will cause fear from snakes and water. 
Aagamanavastha of Mercury will bring many kinds of miseries 
and a wicked wife. Mercury in the 5th or in the 12th in Sabha- 
vasha will give many female issues; in the 7th it will make the 
native black hi complexion. Mercury in Agamavastha will cause 
urinary disorders. Bhojanavastha of Mercury gives poverty and 
many diseases at the time of one’s end. If Mercury is in Nrityali- 
psavastha, the native will have five sods, 4 daughters and 2 wives. 
Mercury in Kautukavastha will cause piles and skin diseases. 
Mercury in Nidravastha will curtail longevity if the position is in 
ascendant or in the 10th house, whereas in other houses, this 
Avastha of Mercury will give abundant wealth. 



Chapter 45 w 

g Sfgsrqfc ^TT^: \ 

wfanh?Tg:«RS*tf?3: wErcwfWfa^ft iqr. i\*m 
^ q%yf *TcT^% qfi( I 

%n<nf®i strnsif^Pn i 

nteHfqfra: *rg*: H*n 

gnrnmR^ fa*ra«raw>*^ w«g« 

« 5 T ct«C:g^3f qsiqfafq^q «(dwg i 
s<sm ^gq*Rft ^m^5- 

ij^cw Ht^nt tnqfmmcq cT^^rm it ton 

*TT«wt nqfaqFW H4T fqqqn^jfaft 5 ?T I 

qfr^Y firfiraf^Rf^ Sqfcraf? gtf n*r *i* ue * n 

snnn% jHcTr qpsnqT q?q srgsnri ^fr^n^n i 
g^wfa tsgtf qfoKqfTOT nt^u 

HTgwqqqni 5TWgq5ffwr3 , q: 
nqfq q»it fq^qTf^qq*rR: i 

irsTgmrqnS'Tt ^Tot«T»j^ 

srjfa 'fqfqafqsMfasft qiqq: uw 

qnnq i^Mmws^hiW goqrq% 

g cmMrUy ?Tqrqgrwg^ fasar>*i«<UT \ 

w>Aq^ ^MH g n qq^ ^Tstfq 5 m qfa: 
yt aiH^f a: htt %rnfa: e** wvtu 

iq*f?T Iq^rgrt ^ tjWl^g \ 

nq Tqpni trar qiPwrc^v^w *if' , «fl | * IIWU 

q?qfa*«nT^ TMHpft H*ft tomftWW ***T I 
y qf q ? T t ggiffiflff: qfacT: ^rsqfqWFra^ft fjj Hlft ®Ri M€.^n 
*ra$\g% qsnsrct 3Rt ?RT 
ar 'fnwr: yqiqtm^: qsft » 



470 Brihai Parasara flora Sastta 

g?ft QTrTu^5¥R*Tqfir5rr: n^n 

5^ faring ^ nfaiifi T i 

TfTScTTTfT^T*?! *1^ H£qjj 

87-98. EFFECTS OF JUPITER'S A VAST!/ AS AT 
BIRTH : If Jupiter is in Sayanavastha, the native will be strong 
but will speak in whispers, be very tawny in complexion, will have 
prominent cheeks, and will have fear from enemies. If Jupiter 
be tn Upaveaanavaslha, the native will be garrulous, very proud 
be troubled by king and enemies and will have ulcers on feet* 
shanks, face and hands. If Jupiter be in Netrapani Avastha* 
the native will be afflicted by diseases, devoid of wealth, be fond 
of music and dances, libidinous, tawny in complexion and be 
attached to other castemen. If Jupiter be in Prakasavastha, the 
native will enjoy virtues, be happy, splendorous and will visit 
places holy to Lord Krishna; if Jupiter in the said Avastha is 
exalted, the native will attain greatness among men, be equal to 
Kubera— the lord of wealth. If Jupiter is in Gamanavasiha the 
native will be adventurous, be happy on account of friends 
scholar y and endowed with various kinds of wealth and with 
Vedic learning, If Jupiter be in Agamanavastha, serving force 
excellent women and the goddess of wealth will never leave the 
native’s abode. If Jupiter be in Sabhav.istha, the native will 
attain comparability with Jupiter (the God of speech) in the 
matter of speech, be endowed with superior corals, rubies and 
wealth, be rich with elephants, horses and chariots and will be 
supremely learned. If Jupiter be in Agamavastha, the native 
will be endowed with various conveyances, honours, retinue 
children, wife, friends and learning, be equal to a king, extremely 
noble, fond of literature and will take to virtuous path. If 
Jupiter be in Bbojanavastha the native will always beget excellent 
food and horses, elephants and chariots while Lakshmi, the 
goddess of Lucre, will never leave his house. If Jupiter be in 
Nrityalipsavastha, the native will receive royal honours be 
wealthy, endowed with knowledge of moral law (stf) and Tantra 
(a branch of learning dealing with magical or mystical formularies 
to attain superhuman powers), be supreme among the learned 
and be a great grammarian. If Jupiter be in Kautukavastha, the 



471 


Chapter 46 

native will be curious ip disposition, very rich, will shine like the 
Sun in his circles, be exceedingly kind, be happy, honoured by 
the kings, endowed with sons, wealth and just disposition be very 
strong and be a scholar in the king’s court. If Jupiter be in 
Nidravastha, the native will be foolish in all his undertakings, 
will suffer irredeemable penury and will be devoid of righteous 
acts. 

Notes : If Jupiter is in Sayanavastha, the native will be fair 
in complexion but will suffer from colic pains. This Avastha of 
Jupiter placed in the ascendant, 7th or 10th will, however, give 
wealth and scholarship. Being in Upavesanavastha, if Jupiter 
occupies the 2nd, 3rd, 11th or 12th, the native will be virtuous 
and learned. In Netrapani Avastha, Jupiter will give head 
diseases and destroy the undertaking of the native. The native 
will be ever of doubtful disposition. If Jupiter is in Prakasana- 
vastha in a house other than the ascendant and the 10th, the 
native will incur diseases of privities and rectum. Jupiter in a 
house other than the 2nd, 5th, 7th and 10th, in Agamanavastha 
will bring fear from snakes. Sabhavasthh of Jupiter will make 
the native rich through others’ wealth. Should Sabhavastha 
occur to Jupiter in the 8th or in the 12th, the native will lose 
everything in his life. If Jupiter is in the asscendant in Bhojana- 
vastha, the native will be fond of flesh, be eloquent, libidinous 
and be happy in every manner. In other houses than the 
ascendant, 5th and 1 be 9th, this state of Jupiter will produce 
many diseases. In Nrityalipsavastha, Jupiter placed in the 
ascendant, 5th, 9th or 10th will give abundant wealth while in 
other houses this cannot be expected of him. In Kautukavastha 
he will give wealth if in the ascendant, ICth or 7th only. Jupiter 
in Nidravastha will make one miserable, suffer eye diseases and 
wander all over. If he is in the 12th with this Avastha, there 
will be riches while this Avastha of Jupiter in the 5th, 7th or 
10th will destory the native’s wife and children. 

TOIcT I 

srcidf tittu 

U\oo\\ 



4 72 


Brihat Parasara flora Sastra 

qqt qtqilr [qiqq q^q fTW grqq l 
WIFfPR qRTq ^"RTqTTvTT ferotTHT q*te H?o$U 
wraft qqq fqq»J qnr% qnqTqrrq>fn:»jsnr<ft qq: i 
*J5&*§cq qq JWnf *iq VT^rfqoTiTf^T^g^ *f)qfqq \\% 0 ^h 
n*T% 5R^ qq tTFI *TTrU *t sftqfa \ 

^Tfutftift fqtftqTO 3RmTHf^r?(W: II 
arm* qqqfq famqft qgq: I 
mf qqqqrat ^TtfcaTtnt qii ; o*n 

sRTqr^TW qqfa inffr qgqi 

qqewkw: qqfa ynfqar: *rq) i 

qqTqmnntf f^fqqf^m uqqq: 
wq?q qf qRTC qq§Tq*FcTr «Rqr: ll^o xil 
m*T** irnt% qmq> qf«TqTqqTmTraTtftq tq%: | 
gq7TcT> fqqrq> qqMTqfoqrRiqtfci: fjrqmtq^Tfqq^i u^n 
W«n§^ «!TTf^fqqtfs?T: Wq%4T«mfqqqTfi?eTCq | 
qqtq?T ^5nr*t gq?qr q^qV qfasqqfbaqsq u^o^u 
T^qfqfnqqfn * qfq: qq*r qfqfqcqiq^ qiqq \ 

qqq>n»jqqirq*fHtqrqqT?Rg«q*>am foitaft: ||{oc|| 

V^pqqq qqqfq qqi qqsqfq qqfq q^qq I 
£in fatrr qfqfa q gq: qqqj fqqqfq qqqrcr: n$o£ll 
•R^qTTWt fq?q fqSTgqqq qsft I 
qrfq*qiqrt qhft qrorat iaq£ qjftq H;tou 

99-110. EFFECTS OF AVASTHAS OF VENUS AT 
BIRTH : If Venus be in Sayanavastha, the native although 
strong will incur dental diseases, be very short-tempered, bereft 
of wealth, will seek union with courtezans and be licentious. If 
Venus be in Upaveaanavastha, the native will be endowed with 
multitude of nine gems (^qqfwr and golden ornaments, be 
ever happy, will destroy enemies be honoured by the king and 
will have highly increased honours. If Venus be in Netrapanl 



473 


Chapter 45 

Avastha in the ascendant, the 7th or 10th, there will be loss of 
wealth on account of sight afflictions (i.e. heavy medical 
expenses due to severe eye diseases) and if the said Avastha 
occurs when Venus is in other houses, there will be large houses 
owned by the native. Should Venus be in Prakasavastba in 
own sign, exaltation sign of friendly sign, the native will sport 
like a lofty elephant, be equal to a king and be skilful in poetry 
and music. If Venus be in Gamanavastha, the native will not 
have a long living mother, will lament over separation from his 
own people and will have fear from enemies. If Venus be in 
Agamanavastha, the native will command abundant wealth, 
will undertake to visit superior shrines, be ever enthusiastic and 
will contract diseases of the hand and foot. IfVenusbein 
Sabhavastha the native will cam eminence in the king’s court, be 
very virtuous, will destroy enemies, be equal to Kubera in 
wealth, charitable, will ride on horses and will be excellent 
among men. If Venus is in Agamavastha, there will be no 
advent of wealth but troubles from enemies, separation from 
children and relatives, diseases and lack of pleasures from the 
wife. Should Venus be in Bhojanarastha, the native will be 
distressed due to hunger, diseases and many kinds of fear front 
enemies and if the said planet is in Virgo in Bhojanavastha, the 
native will be very rich and will be honoured by scholars. If 
Vepus be in Nrityalipsavastha, the native will be skilful in 
literature, intelligent, will play musical instruments like lute, 
taber etc., be meritorious and very affluent. If Venus be in 
K ntukavastha, the native will be equal to Lord Indra, will attain 
greatness in the assembly, be learned and will have Lakshmi 
always swelling in his abode. If Venus be in Nidravastiia, the 
native will be interested in serving others, will blame others, be 
heroic, garrulous and wandering all over the earth. 

Notes : Venus in Sayanavastha in the ascendant will confer 
riches; if in the 7th or in the 1 Ith in the said Avastha, the native 
will be endowed with all kinds of happiness, will never face 
shortage of money and will have 7 sons and 5 daughters. In 
other houses than the ascendant, 7th and 11th, Venus in Sayana- 
vaslha will destroy the progeny of the native. If Venus is in 
Upavesanavastha, the native will have a defect or injury on the 
right side of the body. He will suffer from pains of joints as 



474 


Srihat Parasara Hora Sastra 

well. Should Upavesanavastha occur to Venus in exaltation 
or in own sign, the native will be endowed with all kinds of 
happiness. There will be sure loss of eye sight if Venus is in 
Netrapani Avastha. The 10th house placement of Venus in 
Netrapani Avastha is not praiseworthy for riches while in other 
houses than the ascendant, 7th and 10th this will bring abundant 
wealth apart from giving two wives. Prakasana Avastha of 
Venus placed in the 2nd, 7th, 9th or the ascendant will give 
wealth and sterling disposition. And if he be in the 10th or in 
exaltation or in friendly sign, the native will occupy a high 
position with the king. In other houses than these, Prakasa- 
vastha of Venus will give many diseases and miseries. If Venus 
is in Sabhavastha the native will receive royal favours and be 
akin to Kubera in wealth. Should Venus be in Sabhavastha in 
an enemy s sign or in aspect to an enemy, it will destroy 
everything. Nrityalipsavaslha of Venus will confer a high degree 
of learning while Nidravastha will cause litigations, diseases, 
disputes and poverty. Kautukavastha of Venus will give 
abundant riches, wife and numerous children. 

faster: fltpT l 

eTcft l|g l til'- 

HA 1 

U $ ^|t 

srtpmfar*m qwnr tw \ 

iittvu 

I 

an*TR^ rr5*T*regq?T: farmer: i 

31^ far*? spiffa SR^JT I 

fHdw yff it* t^u 



Chapter 45 475 

q ?7 cTTT I 

* “O 

qqq aTT^qf^TfaTf^cn *lf?T: TOT III {ell 
tfqf* siffa *ng?P5q ■vjt^ *RrfcT *frsN th; i 
*Tq?T HmiWcTT clcTT *ft^rTI*T^cfv,rl rf^rTT *T%: $£ 1 ) 

q?qfaeqPT?* 0 *rf?*TT fq^far: I 

?rd aKt qfrfftf u^«n 

*T?f?T q^gqrmw^'nn^ Tfqtf^ ^UTqtfqftrT: I 
sifaFrcft H^^nqqfTrT: rt: h^*ii 

faffing srraTqrqg# art* ?rt t 

q CTqaft ^f«nRT$^TT ^qRq>Fcn^RTcTfq 5 T: 11^3^11 

n 1-1 22. EFFECTS OF SATURN’S AVAST HAS AT 
BIRTH : If Saturn is in Sayuimvastha, the native will be troubled 
by hunger and thirst, will incur diseases in boyhood and later on 
will become wealthy. If Saturn be in Upavesanavastha the 
native will be troubled greatly by enemies, will contract 
dangers, will have ulcers allovcr the body, be self-respected and 
be punished by the king. If Saturn be in Netrapani Avastha, the 
native will be endowed with a charming female, wealth, royal 
favour and friends, will have knowledge of many arts and be an 
eloquent speaker. If Saturn be in Prakasavastha, the native 
will be very virtuous, very wealthy, intelligent, sportive, 
splendorous, merciful and devoted to Lord Siva. If Saturn 
be in Gamanavastba, the native will be very rich, endowed 
with sons; will grab cnemie’s lands and be a scholar at royal 
court. If Saturn be in Agamanavastha, the native will be akin 
to a donkey (i.e. foolish), bereft of happiness from wife and 
children, will always roam pitiably without anybody's patronage. 
If Saturn be in Sabhavastha, the native will have surprising 
(i.e. great) possessions of abundant precious stones and gold, 
be endowed with great judicial (or political) knowledge and be 
extremely brilliant. If Saturn be in Agamavastha, the native 
will incur diseases, and will not be skilful in earning royal 
patronage. If Saturn be in Bhojanavastha, the native will enjoy 
tastes of food, be weak-sighted and be fickle-minded due to 
mental delusion. If Saturn be in Nrityalipsavastha, the native 



476 


Brihat Parasara flora Sastra 


wil! be righteous, extremely opulent, honoured by the king, 
brave and be heroic in warfield. If Saturn be Kautukavastha 
the native will be endowed with lands and wealth, be happy, 
endowed with pleasures through charming females and learned 
in poetry, arts etc. If Saturn be in Nidravastha. the native will 
be rich, endowed with charming virtues, valorous, will destroy 
even fierce enemies and be skilful in seeking pleasures through 
harlots. 

Notes : If Saturn is in Sayanavastha in the 5th house, the 
native will be endowed with progeny and be happy in all 
manners; if in the ascendant, 6th or 8th, the native will live in 
alien places, be very poor and peaccless. This Avastha to Saturn 
will also cause diseases of the rectum (i r respective of the planet’s 
placement). Saturn in Upavesanavastha will ever cause diffi- 
culties from the government and destruction of wealth. Saturn 
placed in the 10th or in the ascendant with Netrapani Avastha 
when unchecked will cause miseries in livelihood; in the 5th/7th 
there will be destruction of wealth, wife and progeny and in a 
house other than 1st, 5th and 7th, this Avastha of Saturn will 
give wealth and happiness from all sources. If Prakasanavastha 
occurs to Saturn while being in the 7th or the 9th, the native 
and his entire Tacc will be “destroyed’*. Should Sabhavastha 
occur to Saturn in an enemy’s sign or with an aspect from an 
enemy, there will be absolute destruction of the native’s 
possession, Bhojanavastha of Saturn will cause digestive diffi- 
culties, piles and eye defects; if Saturn is in simultaneously 
exaltation or in own sign, the native will enjoy all kinds of 
happiness and be ever devoid of diseases. Kautukavastha of 
Saturn in the 5th/7th/9th will destroy everything and will leave 
the native with diseases alone. Should this Avastha occur to 
Saturn in another house than 5th/7th/9th, the native will be 
favoured by the king, will be very rich, meritorious, skilful, 
happy, learned and adorable. If Saturn is in Nidravastha, the 
native will be opulent, learned, will have two wives and many 
male issues and be very honourable for his sterlingness Should 
Nidravastha occur to Saturn in the 1 0th house, there will be 
penury, diseases, living in alien places and obstruction to 
undertakings at every step If he is in an angle or in a trine 
or in exaltation, these evil effects will not come to pass. 



477 


Chapter 45 

q*T*T*rt q?q TT?ft ^^TTfij^caf SSTd I 

q$sq qt^sfa ^ sRUTOTm: 

€. <S 

s qfry refi qy qarqfa ^ qftcFrr: i 

*7*raqm?ft fqrrqtqq s*r Tf^r; ?qi?u?^i 

gcgsq H i r T^KFit qq q?q «nrcw nwn 
Jmw STATOR frqfo: frfo: ?t«t q®rt I 
A^rf^nterfa: qqr fqqrqmfq^ \ 

tJTTFa'nfsrqTlfCrn q?lVcTT tfcTT 
THql'H^Tar Ifrf =1^9 left l>HV' 

TTTT# ^ qqr TT^ qf^iM^FSTT:: » 
crfiscft er«tr *Tm TT^qsrft ?rd qtq u?^u 
qt^nrqq *rqT qhiddfiid: i 

prq: qnql q7^ ^qfa qqqiH^cii 

qmqdt qqT Tif : qf^: fq^it qr: \ 

faxT ste*KHTfaRf: 1 1 H €.1 1 

wyqiqrqq q?q jtt^ ct^t sqi^rq tf4KTfawt?qT tqqq t 
q^44^uqi4t 3RT5TT fqqicft *15?* M o I) 

jft aFta ref fq’PHt q%qj 

R^qqf^: fqsqrqta: : 

^ trfTEmfafqq;?^ i 
%V>qt frqHffegqaq^ fn* \\\\v\ 

^ q*T TT?1 SR> ^ 1 

qrsRT?^ fa?q qr^rfm^iTVi u?^^m 

fq5Tq?qf TT^\ 5"TOWfa> ^ i 

qnqn H»di qq cq qf^rt qgfadqH n?^vu 

123-134. EFFECTS OFRAHU’S AVASTHAS AT BIRTH : 
If Rahu be in Sayanavastha, the native will experience miseries 



478 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sastra 


galore; but if Rahu in the slid Avastha be in Taurus, Gemini, 
Virgo or Aries the native will be endowed with wealth and 
grains. If Rahu be in Upavesanavastha the native will be 
distressed due to ulcers, be endowed with royl association, highly 
honourable and ever deviod of financial happiness. If Rahu 
be in Netrapani Avastha, the native will be troubled by eye 
diseases, will have fear from wicked people, snakes and thieves 
and will incur financial decline. If Rahu be in Prakasavastha, 
the native will acquire a high position, will perform auspieious 
acts, will obtain elevation of financial state, be highly virtuous, 
be a chief in the king’s court, be charming like freshly formed 
clouds (that Will cause soon rain) and be very prosperous in 
foreign places. If Rahu is in Gamanavasfha the native will be 
endowed with numreous children, be scholarly, wealthy, chari- 
table and honoured by the king. If Rahu is in Agamanavastha 
the native will be very irritable, bereft of intelligence and wealth 
crooked miserly and libidinous. If Rahu is in Sabhavastha the 
native will be scholarly, miserly, and endowed with many virtues, 
wealth and happiness. If Rahu be in Agamavastha, the native 
wfil be always mentally distressed, will have fear from enemies 
and litigations with enemies, be bereft of his own men, will face 
financial destruction, and be crafty and emaciated. If Rahu be 
in Bbojanavastha, the native will be distressed without food 
dull-witted, be not bold in his acts and be bereft of conjugal and 
progemc happiness. If Rahu be in Nrityalipsarastha, the native 
will contract a great and unsubduing disease, will have afflicted 
eyes and fear frorp enemies and will decline financially and 
righteously. If Rahu be in Kautukavastha, the native will be 
devoid of a position (or a place), be interested in others’ famales 
and will steal others' wealth. If Rahu be in Nidravastha the 
native will be a repository of virtues, be endowed with wife’and 
children, bold, proud and very affluent. 

Notes : If Rahu in Sayanavastha is in Leo, Virgo or 
Taurus, there will be all round happiness whereas in other signs 
he is adverse with this Avastha. Rahu’s Upavesanavastha will 
destroy ones wealth and will cause difficulties in day-to-day 
affairs. His Netrapani Avastha in the ascendant or in the 7th 
will bring many evils and miseries while in other houses it will 
bring danger from animals. Rahu in Prakasan avastha in Leo 



Chapter 45 


479 


or in Cancer will cause amputation of head; in other signs it 
gives wealth and royal service. Rahu’s Sabhavastha in the 5th/ 
lOth/lst will destroy the native’s progeny and spouse and will 
make hint fickle-minded. This Avastha in other houses will give 
virtues, scholarship and wealth. With Rahu in the 10th or in 
the 7th Bhojanavastha the native will ‘kill’ his wife or he may 
abandon her or may not be happy in married life, and be 
irreligious. Nrityalipsavastha of Rahu in the ascendant will 
deprive the native of his progcnic ability while in other houses 
this Avastha will give two wives and all kinds of happiness. 
Should Rahu be in Kautukavastha in a house other than 5th/ 
7th/ 10th, the native will incur many kinds of miseries and be 
bereft of spouse and progeny. Nidravastha of Rahu will inflict 
utter poverty and make the native wander all over the earth 
aimlessly. 

trr ^ mi 

EPTfnrfe: ww-titR 

3Tft®neFWqi?TsrtTWT flRhHd: 1 1 \ ^ 1 1 

5T^T?Td HTOFT STrfa«fi: Ml 
Bereft n^cll 

*t?tt ii'^eu 

anmR w mi fcgqfarcltrt mm: \ 

faTR: ll^tfoU 

qRmt qgqfar: 1 

srrTfonfcwrc*: n$v?u 
*wi«l% HW5%§: gqTrqTMqnfrrW I 



480 


Brlhat Pcrasara Hora Sastra 


5 ant 0=r?*r wram ’Tfr'ftferT: \ 

Sf73> T>THrT^T: %rft ^fcT 11**311 

sjcsrfa'ar^ %ff> sulfur fspFvft si^r \ 

ITTOtff £J<TfS5T«f*T> *T: II? WH 
sftfsKV ^g% %rft ?T£siT*TRfrTfsro: I 
^^FT^os^t ?fra> 'sre^ TT^n?^nn 

fa?T3PIT ^ %rft ?FTUI-iiyW XT^cT I 
^PpifaHt^T <FTvI> Slfa^m U**V> 

135-146. EFFECTS OF KETU’S A V AS WAS AT BIRTH : 
If Ketu is in Sayanavastha in Aries, Taurus, Gemini or Virgo, 
there will be plenty of wealth while in other signs increased 
diseases will follow. If Ketu be in Upavesanavastha the native will 
suffer from ulcers and will have fear from enemies, windy diseases 
snakes and thieves. Should Ketu be in Nelrapani Avaslha, the 
native will contract eye diseases, and will have fear from wicked 
people, snakes, enemies and people of royal family. If Ketu be 
in Prakasanavastha, the native will be wealthy, righteous will 
live in foreign places, be enthusiastic and genuine and will serve 
the king. If Ketu be in Gamanavastha, the native will be 
endowed with many sons, abundant wealth, be scholarly, 
virtuous, charitable and be excellent among men. If Ketu be 
in Agamanavastha, the native will incur many diseases, will face 
loss of wealth, will hurt (others) with his teeth (^^Tfavr), be a 
talebearer and will blame others. If Ketu be in Sahhavastha, 
the native will be garrulous, very proud, miserly, licentious and 
skilful in evil branches of learning. If Ketu be in Agamavastha, 
the native will be a notorious sinner, will enter into litigations 
with his relatives be wicked and troubled by diseases and 
enemies. If Ketu be in Bhojanavastha, the native will always 
be distressed with hunger, penury and diseases and will roam 
allover the earth. If Ketu be in Nrityalipsavastha, the native 
will be distressed due to diseases, will have a floral mark on the 
eye (i.e. white of the pupil), be impertinent, wicked and 
will plan evils. If Ketu be in Kautukavastha, the native will 
seek union with dancing females (i.e. prostitutes), will suffer 
positional displacement, will take to evil paths and will roam 



Chapter 45 


481 

all over. If Ketu be in Nidravastha the native will be endowed 
with wealth and corns, be virtuous and will spend his time 
sportively. 

f?nS5f?rT ?TTtf^T: I 

factf ?!TO WRO* ftfawp ^ sa:u?vv»|t 

147. GENERAL EFFECTS (up to sbka ljj; ; O Brahmin, 
if a benefic planet is in Sayanavastba, there will be benefic effects 
at all times according to the learned. 

?WT qqfajTmsfa ^rr*¥? faRTTtin U^Ve;H 

148. If a malefic is in Bhojanavastha, everything {related 
to the house concerned) will be destroyed and there is no need 
of a second thought. 

fasrot q zreT «tit> qrinpn# i 

of? ^ sn* * vffTqqnmn 

149. Should a malefic in the 7th be in Nidravastha auspi- 
cious effects will follow, provided there is no aspect from another 
malefic. 

fpid: TBTt faawl rortsfa HT I 

?RT TTH ^rTP7 ITO* VTHf f^Umi 

150. Declare without a second thought auspicious effects 
following the location of a malefic in the 5th but with Nidra- 
vastha or Sayanavastba. 

fasnrf *r i 

?ri apnsqijw: wwwn: TCremnitxtii 

15 1. Untimely death due to royal wrath will come to 
pass if there is a malefic in the 8th in Nidravastha or Sayana- 
vaetha. 

ym qttaf nfk jtfm: \ 

g aw * fintqir: 



482 


Brihat Parasara Hora Sasfta 


152. If in the above case there be a benefic aspect or 
conjunction, the said (untimely) death will be in the river 
Ganges, i e. Gangetic belt, shrines etc. 

*rt qw. tRhr^sPi «rr < 
cm tpirftwwt: II m < » 

153. If there be a malefic in the 10th house in Sayana or 
Bhojanavastha, the native will face many miseries on account 
of his own deeds. 

Pin MW: n SWT4Tn 1 

TrsnfrT: frsthiH utwi 

154. O excellent of the Brahmins, doubtlessly a Rajayoga 
Will come to pass if the Moon is in the 10th in Kautukavastha 
or Prakasanavastha. 

q* t&h 

155. Thus the good and bad effects be guessed assessing 
the strength and weakness of the planets concerning all the 
Bhavas. 


I To be concluded] 




«ar Reader, 

e are glad you are reading this Unique Book, 
one other remaining ch apters, which contain ver 
raportant material, are given in Its Ilnd Part, 
lease write for your cony of the same. ' 

RANJAN PUBLICATIONS 
l6,Ansarl Road, Darya Ganj, 

New Delhi-11 0002 (INDIA) 


483 


fiBRAfA 


Page 

Line 

For 

18 

26 

AD 72 

57 

23 

257 59gh 47 5Vigh 

60 

20 

4h 2m 

79 

22 

11 2 3 

121 

23 

tilour 

197. 

1 

physicallp matiny 

218 

14 

downfall 

221 

7 

blies 

222 

’19 

co-bron 

236 

14 

progery 

239 

20 

vives 

249 

18 

spleoorous 

313 



358 

19 

Geda 

376 

25 

Jakata 

382 

19 

these 

400 

30 

If Arnatya 

431 

23 

another 

432 last but one 180 

450 

10 

Vikala 

454 

7 

stars 

456 

15 

T and *r 

462 

I 

13 

if 


Read 

AD 78 

257d 59gh 47.5 Vigh 
4h 26m 
11 2 5 
valour 

physically mating 

downfall 

bliss 

coborn 

progeny 

vices 

splendorous 

Rahu in Gemini 

(in the charts 

Gada 

Jataka 

the 

If Atma 
another in 
108 

Dukkhita, Vikala 
star, 

Tand ?r 
it 



A Glimpse of 

KERALA ASTROLOGY . o. P. Verma 

The present work A G//mpse of Kerala Astrology is 
condensation of three recognised Kerala classics Kerala 
Jvotisha, Kerala sutra and Gopala Ratnahara which are unique 
in their own way & speak out the essential, principles of Kera la 
Astrology. We suppose our readers will be enlightened by these 
illuminating pearls of KERALA ASTRO LOGY. Rs. 

■w I 



