
Full text of "Mantreswaras Phaladeepika"
See other formats






II ^ ^ ^ ¬´ 


MANTRESWARA‚ÄôS 

PHALADEEPIKA. 

(ADHYAYAS I‚Äî XXVIlf) 

WITH AN 

ENGLISH TRANSLATION 

BY 

PANDlTABHUSHAhJA V SUBRAHMANYA SABTRI, B A‚Äû 

Asst Secretary to the Govt of Mysore (Reid ) 


AND 

Translator of ‚Äú BRIHAT J AT AKA". JATAKAPARUATA", 
‚ÄúSRIPATIPADDHATI‚Äù . etc. 


Copy Right Registered 


PRINTED AT 

ARUNA PRESS, BANGALOSIE 



Copies of this book can be had of :~ 

Panditabhushana V. Subrahmanya Sastri, B.A,, 
65, 3rd Cross Road, Basavangudi P.O., 
BANGALORE 4. 




PREFACE TO THE FIRST EDITION 


Astrology is no longer looked upon with derision. 
Int&rest in the study of ancient sciences has so far 
revived that only recently an institution has been 
founded for the study of alchemy. My translations of 
Jat^aparijata, Sripatipaddhati and Brihatjataka have 
been appreciatingly received by the public. People 
who started scoffing have stayed on to exhibit a living 
interest and to learn what the science of astrology has 
to teach mankind. An appreciable number of pre- 
dictions by Cheiro, whose recent demise we all 
deplore, based upon his study of this ancient, sacred, 
and useful system has come true. For the service of 
humanity, the value of astrological publications cannot 
be gainsaid and no apology is needed by the author 
for a rendering of "Phaladeepika" and placing it before 
the public in an English garb for the first time with 
suitable explanations. , . 

^'Phaladeepika," a fascinating study in the tech- 
nique of Astrology, was so fa available only in Granttha 
characters and very lately in the Devanagari script. 
Existing publications of Phaladeepika are incomplete 
and wanting in some chapters with some slokas in the 
text also mismatched. Attempts have now been made 
to present the public with a complete text. A great 
deal of difficulty was experienced in tracing the XXVIII 
Adhyaya which was so far unavailable and in locating 
a few slokas in their proper places in the texst. 

Mantreswara, the author of this important work, 
whose family deity was Sukuntalamba, came from the 
Tinnevelly District, the Southern end of the Indian 
Peninsula, and he appears to have flourished about the 
^VI century of the Chrisfian Era, to judge .from the 



V 


PHALADEEPISA 


intrinsic evidence available from certain slokas qupted 
fromsthe Jatakaparijata. His treatment of Astrology is 
remarkable in many ways and differs from that of 
several others. Mantreswara gives a very reasonable 
exposition of the effects of Transits and of cause and 
effect flowing from such Transits. We are also indebted 
to him for the useful inform^ation and guidance which he 
furnishes concerning the ef feet of Bhavas. His chapter 
on Yogas is, an interesting study of truth. The Sarvato- 
bhadrachakra which was referred to only by name in 
other publications has been very fully explained here. 

The sixteenth sloka in Adhyaya III which has been 
till now appearing with two different metres for the 
former and latter halves finds corrected here. The last 
sloka in the XXV Adhyaya which was marked for in- 
completeness is now printed in its entirety. An index 
in both English and Sanskrit is also added for easy 
reference. 

I should take this opportunity of expressing 
my gratitude to Mr. A. S. Sowmyanarayaniengar of 
Srirangam (Trichinopoly) for his ready and willing 
assistance in tracing and supplying some of the missing 
slokas and also the XXVIIL chapter. I am thankful to 
Mr. V. B. Sreekantiah, Proprietor of Messrs. V. B. Soob- 
biah & SonS; for expediting the publication and for his 
personal attention to the details of printing without 
which it would have been impossible to undertake or 
complete this arduous task satisfactorily. 


50, 3rd Cross 
Basavangudi, ‚Äò 
Bangalore City. 
6th January 1937. 


V. SUBRAHMANYA SASTRI. 






IS 








?F^fit¬´niT; * 

RM 

a 

q-^5r5yf^?s:¬ªTorn 



M- 

^wf^fN: . ‚Ä¢‚Ä¢‚Ä¢‚Ä¢ 

.... 


jf^TTVn^: 

.... a^ 

'S. 

iifrT:T3r?itTr: 

'‚Ä¢ .... VS^iL 

c. 

5r?rTf^5TT^^T5r f;?7H 





.... <?.c 


¬´F5y5r¬´n5r: 

?.oy 

u. 

^3TT?T^: 

.... S¬ª^o 



‚Ä¢‚Ä¢‚Ä¢‚Ä¢ 11% 

\\. 

sir^srN: 

.... 

^y- 

^¬ªTW!r:or^#¬•Tnf^ir3r5iTi^5cTT 

.... m 


3rrrr5P'f:^5rR^i5rvn^%fcTr ‚Ä¢ 

.... \<^R 

^^.‚Ä¢ 

55?irf^ STTJiTm^RT ^gTT^T'K^j?: 

.... \%% 


f^?T^wvnw5 ‚Ä¢ 

.... 

\<i 

f|[!r?^Tnrr5yq; 

.... ‚Ä¢*l<ia 



.... 

^O. 

^i[rRff50Tr5rq: 

.... Ro\ 


5^5!J?clTn!cT?C:5r^0TH 

.... RR\ 



.... 5ia^ 


ari^^jf: 

.... R'^'3 

Ra. 

i^?:T^rcNrffSf¬ª5r#<K^q: ‚Ä¢‚Ä¢‚ñÝ‚Ä¢ 

.... 


T7!r?:i¬´TW: 

.... 


irft*srR:'Ti5yf^'ft?n‚ÄôJ?n¬´T: 

.... RC%, 

R'S. 

ag^RTtir: 

.... 

RC- 


.... 


^¬´RI35PJTf^^T 

.... ‚Äô^RS 



.... m 



CONTENTS 


\DHYAyA page 

I Definitions ‚Ä¢‚Ä¢‚Ä¢‚Ä¢ 1 

II Planets and their vairieties ‚Ä¢‚Ä¢‚Ä¢‚Ä¢ 9 

III Divisions of the Zodiac 24 

IV Determination of the Shadbalas of Planets ‚Ä¢‚Ä¢‚Ä¢‚Ä¢ 33 

V Profession and Livelihood ‚Ä¢‚Ä¢‚Ä¢‚Ä¢ 43 

VI Yogas ‚Ä¢‚Ä¢‚Ä¢‚Ä¢ 4G 

Vll Maharajayogas 72 

VIII The effects of the Hun and other planets in the 

12th hhavas from the Lagna onwards ‚Ä¢ H2 

IX Effect of Mesha and other signs liappening to 

be the Lagna ‚Ä¢‚Ä¢‚Ä¢‚Ä¢ 98 

X Kalatrabhava or the 7th house ‚Ä¢‚Ä¢‚Ä¢' 10^ 

XI Horoscopes of women ‚Ä¢‚Ä¢‚Ä¢‚Ä¢ 

XII Issues or Children 

XJir Length of Life ... 130 

XIV Diseases; Death; Past and Future Births ... 141 

XV Method of studying the effects of the Bhavas ... 152 

XVI General effects of the 12 Bhavas ... 1G3 

XVII Exit from the World ... 175 

XVIII Conjuctions of two planets ... 184 

‚Ä¢ XIX Dasas and their effects ... 192 

XX Dasas of the several Bhava-Lords and their 

Bhuktis . 201 

XXI Sub-divisions of Dasas, viz., Bhuktis, Antaras, 

Antarantaras, etc. ... 221 

XXII Kalachakra Dasa, etc. ... 243 

XXIII Ashtakavarga ... 257 

XXIV The Ashtakavarga effects as stated in ‚ÄòIlorasara'... 266 

XXV Upagrahas .... 277 

XXVI Transits of Planets ... 236 

XXVII AsceJjic Yogas ... 319 

XXVIII Upasamhara ... 323 

Slokanukramanika ... 325 

Sanskrit Index (Index to Sanskrit words) ... 341 

English Index 




DESCRIPTIVE CONTENTS 
. ADHYAYA 1. 


Slokas. 

1. Invocatory Verse. 

* 2. The author's purposing to write the work. 

3. Preliminaries. A general description of the 

work to be done 

4. The several parts of the body of Kalapurusha. 

Bha Sandhis or Riksha Sandhis. 

5. The regions indicated by the signs. 

6. The lords of the signs. Uchcha (^80*) and 

Paramochcha Neecha and 

Paramaneecha 

7. Which signs and what portions are Moola- 

trikonas and of which planets ? 

8. Prishtodaya Ubhayodaya 

and Sirshodaya signs. Which signs 

dominate b^ night and which, by day ? 
Urdhva Adhaha Sama (hJ?) 

and Vakra (q‚Äô^r) signs. 

9. Signs ‚Äî moveable, immoveable, and dual; 

Dwara (g-K), Bahis (0%;) and Garbha (^rr^J); 

Dhatu Mula and Jeeva ; 

Krura and Saumya \ odd and 

even ; Male and female ; Eastern, Western, 
etc. 

10 ‚Äî 16. The 12 bhavas and their names. Leenastthanas 

17. Dusstthana (;^:^T¬ªr) and Subhastthana (^iT- 

^r) explained. Kendra Kantaka 

and Chatushtaya (=5rgiS?l). 

18. The terms Panaphara (‚ÄôTOT'KT:), Apokliiha 

(3TT¬ªft%¬ªT), Chaturasra Upachaya 

and Trikona (r^ot) explained. 
ADHYAYA 2. 

‚Äò 1‚Äî 7. Information that can be ascertained through 
the Sun and other planets. 

8 ‚Äî 14. The nature and characteristics of the several 
‚Ä¢ pjanets. 



t 


PHALADEEPIKA 


I , . 

16‚Äú X6. The portions of human abode or human haunt 
signified by the planets. The points of the 
compass of which the planets are lords. 

17‚Äî20. Additional informations (other than what are' 
contained in slokas 1 ‚Äî 7 supra), ‚Äî occupation, 
beast and bird appropriate to each‚Äî that can 
. be gleaned through the several planets. 

21‚Äî22. The natural friends and enemies of the several 
planets enumerated. 

23. Temporal mutual relation among the planets. 

24. The periods signified by the planets. 

The castes of the planets. Their division 
into i^fcT (Satva), (Rajas), and 

(Tamas). The seasons they represent. 

25. Two pairs 'of planets playing the role of parents 

during day and night respectively. 

The nearest relations signified by Mars, 
Jupiter and Mercury. 

26. Body and soul of a person signified by the 

Moon and Sun respectively. The five senses 

an dthe planets representing by them. 

27. Planets‚Äî benefic and malefic‚Äî male, female, 

and hermaphrodite. The deities presiding 
over them. The elements which they control. 

28. The grains appropriate to the planets. The 

countries signified by them. 

29. The precious stones ascribed to them. 

30. Substances pertaining to the planets. Their 

articles of apparel. 

31. The flavours signified by the planets. 

33 . Parts of the body where the characterstic 
‚Ä¢ marks or moles of the planets are to be found. 
The stages of life typified by the planets. 

33 -34. The effect of Rahu and Ketu upon the charac- 
ter and appearance of the person born under 
their infuence. 

35. Their appropriate metals and apparel. Their 
friends and enemies. 



CON'l‚ÄôENTS 


xi 


36. When are planets said to be badly placed and 

when well-placed ? 

37. The character of trees generated by planets. 

ADHYAYA 3, 

1. The Dasavargas. Vargottamamsa 

2. The Saptavargas. The Shadvargas. The effect 

of a Navamsa is equal to that of the Rasi. 

3. The extent of the effect of planets in the Rasi 

and the other Vargas. The five states or 
conditions of a planet, measured by its pro- 
gress in a Rasi. 

4. The Horas and their lords. The Decanates and 

their lords. The Dwadasamsas and their 

lords The Trimsamsas and their lords. 
The Navamsas. 

5. The Shashtyamsas. 

6. The Saptamsas. The Dasamamsas. Th^^Shoda- 

samsas and their lords. 7, 10 and 13 bene- 
fic Vargas. 

7. Vaiseshikamsas. 

8‚Äî9. Their effects. 

10. Effects of planets being weak or strong in all 

or any of the 10 Vargas. Effect of a planet 
being in the five states mentioned in sloka 
3 above. 

11. Effect of planets strong in Shadvargas. 

12. Effect of planets occupying the 2 Horas. 

13. Ayudha (srrj^^T), Pasa Nigala (fir¬ªT5r) 

and Pakshi (qf^) decanates explained. 

14. Chatushpada or quadruped deca^ 

nates. Their effects. Which of tl?e three 
decanates of a Rasi will be good, bad, or 
ordinary and in what Rasis ? 

15. Effect of planets owning the Lagna decanate, 

Lagna Hora, Lagna Dwadasamsa and Lagna 
Trimsamsas occupying his own, exaltation 
or friendly house. 

16. A clue to find the Lagna from the position of 

Mandi at a birth qr from the Moon hin/self 
if the Moon be strong. 



xii 


PHALADEEPlKA‚Äô 


17. Effect of Moon in good vargas. Effect of pla- 
nets posited in their own Trimsamsas. Effect 
of a siiigle planet in exaltation or own 
house, a‚Äôspected by or associated with a 
friendly planet. 

18 ‚Äî 19. The several states or conditions of planets. 

20. The extent of the effects of planets in the 

aforesaid several conditions (or Avasthas). 

ADHYAYA 4. 

I. The six kinds of strength enumerated- Dinaratri 

tribhagabala Pakshabala 

(g^5r^),Varshapaba!a (gggsr?!') , Masapabala 
Dinapabala Horapa- 

bala (5>m5rc5)- 

2. Cheshtabala Yuddhabala 

Uchchabala Digbala 

3. Vargajabala Kendradibala 

g-sr;, Dreshkanabala Nisargabala 

4-‚Äî 5. When is a planet said to be strong and when 

weak ? 

6. Bhavaphala - ‚Ä¢ 

7. Extent of strength accrued to planets through 

their 'position in exaltation, Moolatrikona, 
Swakshetra, friendly and other houses. 

8. Strength gained by planets in the four Kendras. 

9* Importance of the 7th house aspect. 

10. Of the Nisarga (R‚Äò^lr)and Tatkalika 

friendships, the former is more preferable. 

II. . In warding off evil and promoting prosperity 

Jupiter, Mercury and Venus compared. Moon' 
is the basis for the strength of all planents. 

12 ‚Äî 20. Chandrakriya Chandra vasttha (^*=51 

and Chandravela and their 

effects. 

21, Pakshabala special to the Moon and 

Stthanabala important to the other ' 

planets. 

22 ‚Äî 23. The standards of of Shadbalas of planets. 

24, Bhavabala how computed ? 



CONTENTS 


xiii 


ADHYAYA 5. 

1‚Äî8 The sources of a person's wealth and the 
profession to be followed lor the sake of a 
livelihood. 

9. Acquisition of wealth without exertion. The 

country of acquisition. o 

ADHYAYA 6. 

1. The five Mahapurusha yogas stated. 

2. Effect of birth in Ruchaka and Bhadra 

(wJT) yogas. 

3. Effect of birth in Hamsa and Malavya 

yogas. 

4. Effect of birth in a Sasa (^5r) yoga. Effect of 

a birth in which ore, t vo, three four or all 
the five yogas are present. 

5. Sunapha Anapha (sTSTW) and Duru- 

dhara yogas Femadruma (%Tr5JT) 

yoga. 

6. Effect of birth in the Sunaph.i and 

Anapha (ar^cRT) yogas. 

7. Effect of birth in a Durudhara and 

Kemadruma yogas. 

8.. Subhaveshi Subhavasi (wVTWife), 

Subhobhayachari and‚Äô the cor- 

responding Papaveshi (qiq%^) and other 
yogas explained. Subhakarthari 
and Papakarthari and Susubha 

yogas explained. 

9. Effect of birth in Suvesi Suvasi 

and Subhayachari yogas. 

10. Effect of birth in Asubhavesi {3TCT¬´i%fe), Asu- 

bhavasi and Asubhobhayachari 

yogas. 

1] . Effect of birth in Subhakarthari and 

PApakartari yogas. 

12. Effect of birth in the Amala (STIT^[) yoga. 

13. Effects of birth in Susubha Subha* 

kartari and other yog^as are only 

similar to that of Sunapha (g?nTr) and other 
yogas caused by btoefics, etc. 



xiv 


PHALADEJPIKA 


14. ' Mahabhagya (JT^IVTF^)) Kesari Sakata 

Adhama Sama (?rJT), and 

yogas explained. 

15. Effect of birth in a Mahabhagya (jt^W^T) yoga. 

16. Effect of birth in a Kesari (%^^) yoga. 

17. Effect of birth in a Sakata (^^ 3 :) yoga. 

18 Effect of birth in Adhama (arviff), Sama (^JT) 
and Varishta yoga. 

19‚Äî20. Vasumat Amala and Pushkala 

yogas and their effects. 

21‚Äî25. Subhamala(3r¬•rJTT^r), Asubhamala (tiTfrvTlTTcyi) 
Lakshmi and Gouri (¬´ft‚Ç¨t) yogas and 

their effects. 

26‚Äî27. Saras wati yoga and its effects. 

28 ‚Äî 31. Srikanta Srinatha and 

Virinchi (flfRBart and their effects. 

32, Parivartana (qf^lfST) yogas 66 in all. Of these, 

30 are Dainya yogas ; 8 are Khala 

yogas, and the remaining 28, Maha 
yogas. 

33 ‚Äî 34. Their effects. ^ 

35‚Äî36. Kahala and Parvata yogas and 

their effects. . ‚ñÝ 

37 ‚Äî 38. ‚ÄòRaja (Tljsr) and Sankha yogas and their 

effects. 

39‚Äî41. The seven Sankhya yogas and their 

off @c ts 

42‚Äî43. The Adlii yoga (8Tf^?fl¬ªT) and its effects. 

44‚Äî56, Chamara Dhenu (^), Saurya 

Jaladhi (3T5jRl), Chhattra (^sr), Astra (sT^), 
Kama (wtiJt), Asura (sTr‚Äôg?:), Bhagya (^Tirgr), 
Khyati Suparijata (gTifbnrT) and 

j Musala yogas and their effects. 

57‚Äî69. Ava(3i^), Nisswa (R:^g), Mriti Kuhoo 

(fTf ), Pamara (trTR^)> Harsha (f^), Dushkriti 
Sarala Nirbhagya 

Dur Daridra and Vimala (firR5r) 

yogas and their effects. 

70, Another kind of Duryoga 

ADHYAYA 7. 

1‚Äî5. Certain self-evident Rajayogas. 



.contents XV 

6. A Rajayoga caused by the lord of the ‚Ä¢ Lagna 

or the Sun. 

7. A Rajayoga caused by .the Moon. 

8. A Rajayoga caused by Venus and the lord .of 

the Lagna. 

9. A Rajayoga caused by Mars. 

10. A Rajayoga in* which the Sun causes the 

birth of a powerful king. 

11. A Rajayoga in which the Moon ushers a 
. fani,ous king. 

12. A strong Moon aspected by a strong planet 

in the Lagna ushers an emperor into the 
World. 

13‚Äî25. Some more Rajayogas. 

26 ‚Äî 30. Neechabhanga Rajayogas 

ADHYAYA 8 

1~ 4. The effect of the Sun being posited in tie 
several bhavas from the Lagna onwards. 

5 ‚Äî 7. The effect of the Moon being porited in the 
12 bhavas from the Lagna onwards. 

8‚Äî10. The effect of Mars being .posited in the 12 
bhavas from the Lagna onwards. 

11 ‚Äî 13. The effect Mercury being posited in the 12 
bhavas from the Lagna onwards. 

16. The effect* of Jupiter being posited in the 12 
bhavas from the Lagna onwords. 

17 ‚Äî 19. The effect of Venus occupying the 12 bhavas 
from the Lagna onwards. 

20 ‚Äî 24. The effect of Saturn being posited in the 12 
bhavas from the Lagna onwards. 

25‚Äî27. The effect of Rahu being posited in* the 12 
bhavas from the Lagna onwords. 

28 ‚Äî 33. The effect of Ketu being posited in the 12 
bhavas from the Lagna onwards. 

. 34 * When does a planet produce the full effect of 
the bhava it occupies ? In giving effects, 

Rahu is similar to Saturn and Ketu is hke 
Mars. 



xvi 

55. 


PHALADEBPIKA 


r-12. 

13. 


14‚Äî19. 


20 . 


1 . 

2 - 3. 
4. 


6 . 


i: 

a. 

9. 

10 .' 


Planets posited exactly in the centre of a 
bhava produces full effects. 

. ADHYAYA 9. 

Effect of the several Basis from Mesha onwards 
happening to be the Lagna. 

Similar effects should¬ªbe predicted when the 
several Basis from Meslxa onwards happen 

to contain the Moon in them. 

Effect of a planet occupying his Uchcha (^^), 
Swakshetra a Mitrakshetia‚Äô 

a Satrukshetra Neecha 

or becoming Astangata 
Effect when a planet is retrograde in motion 
or occupies a Vargottama Navamsa. 
ADHYAYA 10. 

Yoga leading to the aquisition or loss of a wife 
Yogas leading to the loss of a wife. A yoga 
for getting a chaste and fortunate wife. 

Yogas leading to separation from one's wife. 

Yogas leading to a liaison with other people's 
' wives. * . 

Yogas leading to wiJelessiiess or childlessness. 
Yogas leading to two wives. How to predict 
the number of wives a person'can have ? 

A clue to find the number of women that a 
person may associate with. How many of 
these will die early and many will survive, 
etc. 

, Yogas leading to loss wife or husband. Yogas 
leading to a happy and lucky couple. 

A yoga leading to a woman being, remarried. 
Toga leading to the demise of both the woman 
and her husband. 

Yogas leading the native to be blessed with 
wife and children.. 

Yogas leading to a person's wife being happy 
and endowed with children. 



CONTENTS 


‚ñÝxvii 


11 . 

12 . 

13-14. 

15. 

1 . 

2 . 

3. 

‚Ä¢ 

4. 

5. . 

6t-8: 

9. 

10 . 

] 1 . 

1 . 

2. 

3. 

4. 


A clue to find the Janmarasi of the 

wife- 

A clue to find the direction of the country of 
the wife, and time of marriage. 

Time of acquisition of a wife. 

A yoga for the lo,ss of wife. 

ADHYAYA 11. 

The various effects that have to be deduced 
from the several bhavas in a female's horos- 
cope. 

A clue to find out the character, nature, luck, 
etc., of a female. 

Bodily appearance character, status, etc-, of 
the husband. The mutual relationship 
(friendliness or otherwise) between the 
couple. 

Alpasutarkshas Yoga for a female 

to have diseased organs. Yogas to become 
unchaste. 

Yoga for a female to be fortunate and chaste. 
Yoga leading to barrenness. 

The effects of the birth of a female* in the 
several Trimsamsas of each of the 12 Basis. 

Effect of a, female's birth in the asterisms 
Jyeshta, Aslesha, Visakha, Chittra, Ardra, 
Satabishak, Moola, Krittika and Pushya. 

A Saubhagya yoga. 

Menses. The yoga which makes it possible 
for a woman to mix sexually with man. The 
time to be recommended lor impregnation. 
ADHYAYA 12. 

Yoga$ under which the acquisition of children 
is assured. 

Yogas under which a person can have no 
issues whatever. 

Exception to the above (si. 2). Childless Ras^s. 

Yogas for a person to Have a child late in life 
after a great effort. 



xviii PHALADEEPIKA 

5. Yogas leading a person to have children 
through a second wife. Yogas under which 
a person becomes the father of many 
daughters, 

6‚Äî 7. Yogas leading to family extinction. 

8. Yogas leading a person to have a son by 

adoption. 

9, Yogas leading to loss of children. 

10. Yogas for having many children. 

11. When will all the children be males ? 

12. Time when conception may take place. 

13. How to determine the number of issues ? 

14. Method to ascertain the strength of fecundity. 

15. To determine whether progeny is assured 

or not. 

16‚Äî18. Methods advocated to ward off barrenness. 

19 ‚Äî 22. Cause of childlessness. 

23 ‚Äî 24. Remedies recommended to ward off the sins 
leading to childlessness. 

25 ‚Äî 32. Time when the acquisition of a son may be 
expected. 

33. To determine the time of delivery. 

34. Bases for predition of effects. 

ADHYAYA 13. 

1, The longevity of the person should b¬Æ the 

first thing to be ascertained. 

2. Various opinions about the correct time that 

has to be taken for the Lagna at a birth. 

3‚Äî4. The life of children under 12 years cannot be 
calculated for the reasons stated. 

5. Remedies to ward off the evil effects due to 

Balarishta. 

6. Balarishta (srrsrrfcs), Yogarishfca (ijtiTrR:¬Æ), 

Alpayus Madhyamayus 

and Purnayus <i¬Æhned. 

7. Maximum period of human life and its divi" 
sions into three kinds. 

Death of the cTiild if born ; Dinamrityu*(f^- 


8 . 



CONTI^NTS _xix 

Dinaruk and Vishaghatika 

portions, and fateful influence on 

the parents, child and the maternal uncle 
if born in specified portions of certain 
asterisms. 

9. Yogas leading to death very soon after birth, 
10 ‚Äî 11. Which portions of the signs with the Moon in 
them become fateful ? 

12. Another yoga leading to the death of the child 

very soon after birth. 

13. Yogas leading to the early demise of a child 

and the probable periods of exit. 

14 ‚Äî 15. Yogas leading to Dirgha Madhya (ttw) 

and Alpa (sT^q*) Ayus. 

16. A yoga for a person to be long-lived. 

17. Another set of yogas for Dirgha Madhya 

and Alpa (sr^q*) Ayus. 

18‚Äî19. The times of exit in the above three cases. 

20. To determine the best lucky time for a person. 

21 ‚Äî 24. Yogas which counteract Arishta and 

secure long life. 

25. Ayus should be predicted only after a 

correct examination of the Dasas described 
by Sripati (^^q*!^), of the Ashtakavargas, the 
Kalachakra Dasas, etc. 

ADHYAYA 14. 

1. The planets through whom the diseases have 
to be determined in a nativity. 

2‚Äî9. The diseases caused by the several planets. 
10‚Äî11. Certain yogas leading to some specific 
diseases, (eye disease, ear disease, belly- 
ache, bleeding from rectum, disease in the 
private parts). 

12‚Äî20. The manner in which a person meets with his 
death and the cause of the same. 

21. Yoga leading to a happy death or otherwise. 

22 ‚Äî 23. The region to which a. person goes after his 

death. The refuge of the departed. 



XX 


PHALADEEPIKA 


24 - 29 * 

1 . 

t 

2 . 

3 - 6 . 

1 - 8 . 

9-10. 


11 . 


12 . 

13. 


14. 

15-16. 


17. - * 

18. 


19. 

20 . 
21 . 


22^*24. 


25 


All inlormation about one's past and future 
births. 

ADHYAYA 15. 

When will the bhavas produce good effects ? 

When is a bhava said to be strong, when 
mixed and when weak ? 

Conditions determining the destruction of a 

bhava. 

Time when such destruction comes to pass. 

The lord of the Lagna, whether benefic or 
malefic, promotes the prosperity of the 
Bhava it occupies. "An example where the 
lord of the Lagna is malefic. 

In the case of a planet owning'^two houses, the 
the conditions and the time during which 
the effects of these two houses will happen. 

Same as slokas 7 ‚Äî 8. 

A situation when the effects predicted above 
as going to happen may not at all come to 
pass 

The effect measured. 

What can be determined from the several 
planets ‚Äòas Karakas ? 

The Karakas of the 12 bhavas. ‚Ä¢ . 

The planetary effects will be full or otherwise 
according to the nature‚Äî friendly or inimical 
‚Äî of the sign occupied by the planet Male- 
fics in the 6th, 8th and 12th and benefics in 
the other houses generally promote advance- 
ment of the native, 

Malefics in the Dustthanas do good to the 
native while benefics, evil. 

The method of determining the effects of any 
Bhava. 

The method of ascertaining information about 
one's father, mother and other iselations of a 
person. 

All information about one' father to be ascer- 
tained by treating the Sun's position in the 
nativity as the Lagna and proceeding in the 
usual way. 

Similar details about one'¬ß mother, brother, etc. 



CONTFOTS 


xxi 

should be ascertained by treating the res- 
pective Karaka's position in the nativity as 
the Lagna, etc. Good effects of any Bhava 
are assured when the lord as well as its 
Karaka are both strong. 

26. Bhava Karakas in their respective BhavaS will 

cause distress. 

27. The lord of the Lagna produces the effects of 

(1) the Bhava owned by the planet if any 
associated with him and (2) the Bhava occu- 
pied by him. 

28. The lord of the Lagna produces happy or ad- 

verse effects (of the Bhavas above referred‚Äô to) 
according as the number of benefic dots in 
his Ashtakavarga is more or less than the 
normal (4). 

29. If a planet owning two houses one of which is a 
Dusstthana, be posited in his other house, he 

will give the effects of only that house and 
not the effects due to the Dusstthana. An 
example. 

30. The five kinds of connection or relationship 

recognised between two planets. 

ADHYAYA 16. 

1. The colour and appearance of the native and 
the proportions of his body and limbs. 

2 ‚Äî ^30. Some effects of the Lagna and the other 
Bhavas. 

31 ‚Äî 32. Time when the effects of any Bhava will 
happen. 

33. Evil effect caused by the conjunction of the 

lord of the 1st and 6th Bhavas. 

34. A clue to find whether there will arise any 

rivalry, envy or friendship between the 

native and another and the time when the 
^ame will be caused. 

35. Time when the good or bad effects of any 
* Bhava may be expected. 

ADHYAYA 17. 

1. A clue to find out the time when a Bhava 

suffers annihilation. 

2. A clue to ascertain the time of one's demise by 

means of the ttaiisit of Saturn. 

b 



xxii PHALADEEPIKA 

3 ‚Äî -4. ,A clue to find the time of one's demise by 
means of the transit of Jupiter, 

5, A clue to find the time of one's death through 
Moon's transit. 

A clue to find out the times of demise of one- 
self and his brother. 

7. A clue to ascertain the times of demise of 

one's father and mother. 

8. A clue to find out when a son's demise may 

happen. 

9. Another clue similar to these given in 3‚Äî4. 

10. Another clue similar to the one given in SI. 2. 

11 ‚Äî 12. A clue to find the month and the Lagna of 

one's demise. 

13‚Äî28. A clue to find the time when a person's death ^ 
may be looked for ‚Äî the particular Dasa 
period, the year, the month and the day when 
the event may happen. 

ADHYAYA 18. 

1. Effect of the Sun being in conjunction with 

each of the other 6 planets. 

2. Effect of the Moon being in conjunction with 
' each of the 5 planets other than the Sun. 

3. Effect of Mars being in conjunction with each 

of the 4 planets other than the Sun and Moon. 

4. Effect of Mercury being in conjunction with 

Jupiter, Venus or Saturn. Effects of Jupiter 
being in conjunction with Venus or Saturn. 

5. Effect of Venus being together with Saturn. 

Effect of conjunctions of more than two 
planets. 

6 ^11. The effect of planetary aspects on the Moon in 
the 12 Rasis. " 

12‚Äî15. The effect of planetary aspects on^the Moon 
in the several Navamasas. 

16. What has been stated in slokas 6‚Äî11 should 

also be understood to apply in the case of 
Dwadasamasas also. 

17. The conditions for the fullness or otherwise of 

the good and bad effects described above. 



CONTENl*S xxiii 

ADHYAYA 19. 

1. The author's justification in his setting forth 

the Mahadasas. 

2. The nine Mahadasas and* their respective 

periods. 

3. To find the unexpired portion in years, etc., 

of a Dasa at thfe time of a birth. 

4. A Solar year defined. 

5‚Äî 6. General effects of the Sun's Mahadasa. 

7. Effect of the Moon's Dasa. 

8. An examination of the Moon's strength is 

necessary before any declaration is made. 

9 ‚Äî 17. General effects of the Dasas of Mars, Mercurv, 
Jupiter, Venus, Saturn, Rahu and Ketu. 
.18‚Äî26. Some moie effects of the several Dasas stated. 
ADHYAYA 20. 

1. A brief description of what is indicated in this 
Adhyaya. 

2 ‚Äî 14. Effects of the Dasas of the planets owning the 
Lagna and the other Bhavas when the Bhavas 
are strong and their lords are well-placed. 

IS ‚Äî 20. Effects of the Dasas of the planets owning the 
Lagna and the other Bhavas when they are 
occupying inimical or depression Rasis, or 
have been eclipsed or happen to be badly- 
placed. 

21. References to certain things in some of the 

previous adhyayas as relevant and applicable 
to a Dasa under examination. 

22. The Dasa of a planet in a Vargottamamsa Will give 

favourable results while the Dasa and Bhukti 
of planets badly placed will be unfavourable 

23. Certain Bhuktis in the Dasa of a malefic 

produce untoward effects. 

24. What Dasas prqve fatal ? 

25 ‚Äî 26. Mars and Venus in certain positions produce 
‚Ä¢ most beneficial results during their Dasas. 



5cxiv 


PHALADEEPIKA ‚Ä¢ 


27. Nature of the effects of the Dasas of planets ‚Äî 

benefic or malefic‚Äî when in depression? 
inimical or bad houses. 

28. . The evil effects resulting when the Bhukti 

period of aplanet inimical to the loid of the 
Dasa or of a planet occupying the 6th house 
or of a planet inimical to the lord of the 
Lagna is in progress. 

29. A clue to ascertain the nature of the effects of 

a particular Bhukti through the Bhuktinatha. 

30. The good influence of a planet in its several 

positions. 

31 ‚Äî 32. Certain clues to find out the planet whose 
Dasa will prove fatal. 

33. A yoga in which the middle portion of the life 

of the native is good. The fruit of a planet's 
Dasa matures differently according to its 
position in a Prishtodaya, Ubayodaya and 
Sirshodaya Rasi. 

34. Planets prove prosperous during their Dasa 

periods if they transit at the time their. 
Swakshetra; Uchcha or Mitra houses. 

35* The destruction of a Bhava during the Dasa of 
the planetypccupying it, if the planet be Weak 
or is in depression or inimical house* 

3b. In what position the Moon influences a Dasa 
beneficially and in what otherwise ? 

37* When will the effects of the Bhukti of a planet 
be good and when evil ? 

38* The particular time at which the good or bad 
effects of a planet's Bhukti period is 
manifested. 

39. Nature of the effects of Rahu's Dasa will be 
similar to that of the planet he associates 
with. The Pasa of a planet thouh Benefic if 
associated with Rahu will prove malefic a^ 
the end. 

40* The Maraka places defined* Conditions when 
, the Dasas of their lords may prove fatal. 
Nature of the Dasas of planets owing (l) 
Kendra or Tiikona houses (2) 3rd,* 6th and 



CONTENTS ^ XXV 

8th houses* Sun or Moon will only give 
good effects during his Dasa when he hap- 
pens to own the 8th house. 

42. When the lord of a Kendra is* in Trikona or 
vice versa, their Bhuktis in each other's 
Dasa will be very auspicious. 

43‚Äî44. When will planets* reveal the effects of their 
Dasas or Bhuktis ? 

45. Lords of a Kendra and a Kona even if by 
themselves causing evil become powerful 
to make the native prosperous. 

46‚Äî49. Planets becoming Yogakarakas. 

50. Conditions under which Jupiter and Venus 

cause evil and prove fatal during their 
Dasas. 

51. Malefics when they own Kendras become 

more auspicious in their effects. 

52. Nature of Rah u and Ketu in their effects when 

posited in a Kendra or Trikona. 

53. Nature of Rahu and Ketu in their effects when 

they occupy houses owned by benefics and 
are associated with any planet. 

54. Effect when a Rajayoga is in progress and the 

Karaka Bhuktis intervene. 

55. The several planets which are untoward ia 

the native. 

56‚Äî57. Some varieties of a Dasa explained. 

58. A clue for ascertaining the time of death of 

a person. 

59. When will a Dasa prove auspicious ? 

60‚Äî61. The ^ood or evil to be experienced in a Dasa 

dependent on the position of its lord during 
its course and also with "reference to the 
Moon. 

62. Details of the same. 

63. Author's instructions to the reader before* 

attempting at predictions. 



xxvi 


1 . 

. 2 . 

3-11. 

12 - 20 . 

21-29. 

30-38. 

39‚Äî47. 

48-56. 

57‚Äî65. 

66-74. 

75‚Äî83. 

84. 


1 - 2 . 


3. 

4. 


5-9. 

10 . 

11 . 

12 . 

13. 


14. 


15. 

16. 


17 . 


PHALADEEPJKA 

ADHYAYA 21. 

Sub-division of a Dasa into Bhuktis. Time of 
fruition of planetary effects. 

Method* of determining the Bhukti period of 
a Dasa. 

The Sun's Dasa and effects. 

The Moon's Dasa an‚Äòd effects. 

Kuja's Dasa and effects. 

Rahu's Dasa and effects. 

Jupiter's Dasa and effects. 

Saturn's Dasa and effects. 

Mercury's Dasa and effects. 

Ketu's Dasa and effects, 

Sukra's Dasa and effects. 

How the effects have to be predicted. 
ADHYAYA 22. 

Stars grouped by triads. The order in which 
they are cast. Apasavya and Savya 

The years. assigned to the planets. 

How the formula for each of the several Nak- 
shatrapadas is composed and its connection 
to the total life-period and the several sub- 
Dasas composing them. , 

The formulas for the several Nakshatrapadas. 

The initial Dasa and how it is calculated. 

How the Rasi Mahadasas of a life are deter- 
mined. 

Manduka Gati‚Äî Aswa Gati and Simhavalokana. 

How to calculate the period of a Bhukti or 
Apahara in a Mahadasa. 

The number of years of Parama Ayus for the 
several formulas. . 

Effects already stated before the several Maha- 
dasas will apply also in the cause of Utpanna 
and Adhana Mahadasas. 

Utpanna, Adhana and Kshema Dasas ex- 
plained. 

Naisargikadasa periods of the several pl&nets. 



CONTENTS 


xxvii 


18. 

19. 

20 .. 

21 . 


22 . 


23. 

24. 

25. 

26. 

27. 

28. 

29. ‚Ä¢ 

30. 

31. 

32. 

1 ‚Äî 2 . 


3-9. 


10 . 


Amsayurdaya. 

Vyayadiharana or Chakrapatar- 

dhahani (^5R<TTcrT4^?;i^)¬ª Satrukshetraharana 

(5Tj%3rf?:ar). 

The dictum Satyacharya on the several 
reductions. 

Pindayurdaya 

The computation of Lagnayus in the Pinda- 
yurdaya system. 

Reduction in the Ayurdaya of a planet on 
account of its being in a depressed position 
or in an intermediate position. 

Views of other Astrologers on the Pindayur- 
daya method. 

The Ayurdaya of Jeevasarman. 

The maximum length of life in the case of men' 

The order of the Dasas. 

When are the three systems ‚Äî ^Amsa (3T5T). 
Pinda | ftruig-) and Naisargika Ayur- 

dayas‚Äî to be adopted? 

What should be done when the Sun, Moon 
and the Lagna are of equal strenth ? 

Kalachakra Dasa system when 

to be resorted to ? 

Maximum period of life in the case of men and 
some of the other living creatures. 

The perons to whom the Ayurdaya 
rules apply. 

ADHYAYA 23. 

Purpose of the Ashtakavargas and the mode 
of setting the dots. 

The Ashtakavargas of the Sun and other 
planets. 

The malefic places in the several Ashta- 
kavargas The good effects revealed by the 
Asfatakavarga are advanced by the planet, 
concerned being welbplaced, that is in an 
Upachaya, in a friend's house, in his own 



xxviii f>HALADEEPIKA 

house or in his exaltation. The same fail of 
effect when the planet is posited in an 
Apachaya place, in his inimical house or in 
his, depression Rasi. 

11. Effects to be deduced through benefic dots 

ranging from 0 to 8^n any Rasi. 

12. How benefic dots are computed. 

13. A planet in its transit through the exact degree 

in the Bhava it had originally occupied at 
the time of birth reveals the full effects due 
to that Bhava ‚Äî ^good or bad as the case 
may be. 

14. Time when a Bhava is advanced or suffers 

decay. 

15. Cases where the interests of a Bhava are pro- 

moted in an intense manner. 

16. How to ascertain the exact time of fruition 

of a particular benefic dot in a Rasi. 

17. Prastara Ashtakavarga explained. 

18 ‚Äî 19. The lords of the 8 divisions into which a 
Rasi is divided and the time of fruition of a 
particular benefic dot in the same. 

20‚Äî21. The Sarvashtakavarga. Effect of benefic dots 
in any Rasi being above, equal to of falling 
short of 28. 

22. The bases for computing Ashtakavarga are the 

positions of the several planets and the 
Lagna at the time of birth. 

23. A malefic when he is in his Swakshetral will 

only promote the Bhava he occupies, while 
in depression or inimical house he will only 
cause the Bhava's ruin. 

24. Effect of a benefic in exaltation if he owns‚Äô a 

Dussthana. Effect of a malefic in exaltation 
when he is not in Dussthana, but happens 
to own good houses. 

ADHYAYA 24. ‚Äò 

1‚Äî6. Clues to ascertain the time of demise of one's 
father. 

7 ‚Äî ^3. Time of demise of one's mother. 

9. To ascertain the number of brothers, relations 
and maternal uncles. 



CONTENTS 


xxix 


10‚Äî li; 

12 . 


13‚Äî15. 


16-17. 

18‚Äî22. 

23-26. 

27‚Äî33. 


34‚Äî35. 


36. 


37‚Äî43. 

44. 

1 . 

2 . 

3. 

4. 

5. 


6‚Äî 7. 


8-14. 


15‚Äî18. 


19- 


20 ‚Äî 21 . 

E 


To ascertain the number of issue^. 

Effects to be guessed through the figures in 
Sukra's Ashtakavarga. 

To ascertain one's own demise by the figures 
in Saturn's Ashtakavarga. 

Trikona reduction. 

Ekadhipatya reduction. 

Rasi and Graha Gunakara (multipliers.) 

Process for finding the Ayurdaya through the 
Ashtakavarga system. 

A speedy way of computing the figures of the 
Sarva Ashtakavarga in the several houses. 

To ascertain the effects in the case of a horos- 
cope, the Ashtakavarga system is the best. 

Certain inferences that can be deduced from 
the figures in the Sarvashtakavarga. 

Conclusion. 

ADHYAYA 25. 

The nine Upagrahas enumerated. 

Mandi or Gulika and its position in the several 
week-days. 

Similar positions of Yamakantaka and Ardha- 
prahara. 

The position of Kala. 

The position of Dhuma, Paridhi, Indra Chapa 
and Ketu. 

Scope of the effects of the Upagrahas treated 
in this chapter* 

Effect of Gulika in the 1 2 Bhavas. A clue to 
find out the Lagna in a nativity through the 
position of the Gulika therein. 

Effect of Gulika being associated with the 
several planets. 

Gulika and Yamakantaka very powerful in 
causing evil and good respectively. Other 
Upagrahas have only half the power of Mandi 
in causing evil* 

Nature of the effects of the Upagrahas com- 
pared with those of some of the planets. 



XXX PliALADEEPIKA 

22 ‚Äî 26. ' Eff^jct of Dhuma and other Upagrahas when. 

associated with planets in the Lagna and 
other houses. 

27. Effect caused by Dhuma and the four other 

Upagrclhas when they are visible. 

28‚Äî29. Form and appearance of Dhuma, Vyatipata, 
^ Parivesha. 

30 . Effect of the lord of the sign occupied by 
Gulika being in a Kendra, a Trikona, his own, 
exaltation or a friendly house. 

ADHYAYA 26. 

1. Importance of the Janma Rasi (Rasi occupied 

by the Moon). Gocharapala to be predicted 
with reference this alone. 

2. Particular houses through which when the 

several planets transit, they give auspicious 
effects. 

3‚Äî 8. The auspicious houses of transit and the 
corresponding Vedha places for the Sun and 
other planets. 

9‚Äî11* Effects of the transit of the Sun through the 
12 houses. 

12* Effects of the Moon's transit through the 12 
‚Ä¢ houses 

13‚Äî16. Effects of Mar's transit over the 12 houses. 

17. Effects of Mercury's transit over the 12 houses. 
18‚Äî20. Effect of Jupiter's transit over the 12 houses. 
21. Effects of the trasit of Venus over the 12 houses 
22"-'23 Effects of Saturn's transit over the 12 houses. 

24. Effects of Rahu's transit over the 12 houses. 

25. Planets grouped according as they produce 

effect in the initial, middle or final portion 
/ of a sign. 

26‚Äî27. Sapthasalaka, and effects to be deduced there- 
from. 

28. Certain fateful stars and the effect of the tran- 

sit over them by the planets. 

29. Effects of transits by planets over certaiji 

specified positions in the zodiac and times 
of certain astronomical occurence. 



CONTENTS 


XXXI 


30. The nullification of effects produced by 

planets ovy^ing to certain aspect^. 

31. Planets badly placed will not do harm if posi- 

ted in theit exaltation or Swakshetra Rasis, 
while planets in such positions, if they be 
well placed, give beneficial results during:^ 
their transit over such Rasis. 

32. Effects of planets while in transit through 

favourable and unfavourable places when 
they occupy depression or inimical houses or 
^ are eclipsed. 

33. Effects of the transits of Saturn, the Sun, Mars 

and Jupiter over the 12th, the 8 th and the 
1 st houses reckoned from the Moon's place. 

34. The Maranastthana in the case of 

the several planets. 

35. The distribution of the 27 stars over the 

several limbs of the native during the Sun's 
transit and the effects thereof. 

30 ‚Äî 40. The same with reference to the transits of the 
Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, 
Saturn, Rahu and Ketu. ' 

‚Ä¢ 41. Effect of transits by planets over houses 
containing more benefic dots in the 
Ashtakayarga. 

42‚Äî44. Puro Lattas forward Lattas and 

Prishta Lattas or rear Lattas. 

45‚Äî46. Effect of the Lattas. 

47. Conjunction of two or more Lattas and its 

effects. 

48. Effects of transit in Subha (gvr) and Asubha 

Vedhas in the Sarvatobhadrachakra 

49. Expiation by Santhis of evil effects arising 
from bad Dasas, Apaharas, low figure of 
benefic dots, transit through bad places, etc. 

Planets are always productive of good to 


50 . 



xxxii PHM.ADEEPIKA 

p^sons who do not harm others, do virtuous 
acts, etc. 

ADHYAYA 27. 

1. The planetary conditions leading to asceti- 

cism. 

2. Tha particular class ol ascetics to which the 

native concerned Would belong. 

3‚Äî4. Some more ascetic Yogas! 

5. The various kinds of ascetics mentioned. 

. 6. Yoga for becoming a miserable devo.ut. 

7. Effect of a Rajayoga co-existing with the Yoga 

mentioned in the previous sloka. 

8. Yogas leading one to become a successful 

ascetic and respected by all. 

ADHYAYA 28. 

1‚Äî4. The contents of the 27 Adhyayas. 

5. The author's birth place. 

6. His family deity. 



II 5ms ii 


PHALADEEPIKA 

SRRtS^^PT: 

5^5?^5f firgr g^ f^rrjst^s^nrf 

^f^s q-c f^5rg 5r?r5rf^cif fkq‚Äô ^s ii^ii 
ADHYAYA I. 

Sloka 1 . ‚Äî May we be blessed with beatitude 
without end by that Supreme Reality ‚Äî the one heavenly 
light without a second (the Sun)^ .which when once 
above the horizon, remains on end in full view of the 
moon-dwelling manes, pole-dwelling celestials and the 
earth-dwelling mortals, for (i. e,, which has for these 
beings a diurnal arc measuring) half a synodic lunar 
month, half a solar year and the entire day time of a 
solar nycthemeron respectively, and which sometimes 
(to wit, with northern declination under north polar 
heaven) is dextral (/. e., moves on almucantars from 
left to right), and sometimes (to wit, with southern 
declination under south polar heaven), sinistral (i. e., 
moves on almucantars from right to left). 

‚Ä¢ 

WR ¬´FFy3r?T5rRfi5i: 
sRSTfis!: 5ninT% i 








Adh. I 




Shka the astrologer Mantreswara, first make 

my reverent obeisance* to Saraswati-^the Muse of 
Learning, to my family-deity, to my parents and 
teachers, to the nine planets beginning with the Snxi, 
which bestow omniscience (viz,, knowledge of past, 
present and future) to Ganesa, the lord of Siva's 
cohorts of divinities, and, above all, to Siva, the 
Supreme, and then proceed to give out here for the 
delectation of astrologers a very limpid conspectus of 
the teaching of Atri, Parasara and the rest, under the 
title "Phaladeepika" ( = "Light on Apotelesmatics"). 


firf^r^T ?r3n^ ii^ii 


Sloka 3 , ‚Äî The exact time of the birth of a person 
with the actual number of Vighatikas elapsed as reveal- 
ed by foot-measurement or by the gnomonic shaglbw 
and other apparatus should first be specially ascertain- 
ed, Then the positions of the planets coincident with 
observation should be set down with the help of 
mathematical (expedients) instruments. Then the 
Bhavas and the strength of planets should be investi- 
gated and through them the effects should be judged. 


5T% 



Sloka 4 . ‚Äî The parts of the body of the person 
(Kala) beginning with the Lagna are respectively (1) 
the h^ad (2) the face (3) the breast (4) the heart (5) the 



3 


SI. )b- 6 iWjftrwTwr: 

i ‚Ä¢ 

belly (6) the hip (7) the groins (8) the private part (9) 
the two thighs (10) the two knees (11) th# two calves 
and (12) the two feet. The concluding portion of the 
signs, Vrischika, Meena and Kataka is called 
(Bhasandhi) or (Rikshasandhi). Others apply 

tHis term to the last portions of all the signs. 

fw^rf ¬´n% i 
vriflr Br^- 

rf:55T^ iiHii 


Sloka 5. ‚ÄîThe abodes of the 12 signs from Mesha 
onwards are respectively (1) the forest (2) a field under 
water (meadow) (3) a bed room (4) a chasm with water 
in it (5) a mountain (6) a land with water and corn 
(7) the house of a Vaisya (8) a hole or cavity (9) King's 
residence (10) water-abounding forest (11) the spot 
frequented by potters and (12) water. 


4tJT: g^l?:5ftgn%3rT: 


Sloia 6.‚Äî Mars, Venus, Mercury, the Moon, the Sun, 
Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Saturn and 
Jupiter are respectively declared the lords of the signs 
from Mesha onwards. Mesha, Vrishabha, Makara, 
Kanya, Karkataka, Meena and Tula are the exaltation 
signs of the*seven planets respectively from the Sun 
onwards, their signs of 'fall' being the 7th from their 
exaltation ones. The highest exaltation and fall of the 
planets counting from the Sun are the 10th, the 3rd, 



4 




Aah. I 


‚Äî T ‚Äî = ‚Äî ^ ‚Äî 

the 28t'h, th^lSth, the 5th, the 27th and the 20th de- 
grees of the several signs. 

r^iciqfTj 5t*n5jg¬´n^?ET: ii^ii 

Sloka 7.‚Äô~‚ÄúSimha, Vrishbha, Mesha, Kanya‚Äô, Dhanus, 
Tula and Kumbha are the Moolatrikona (first triangu- 
lar) signs of the planets from the Sun onwards. The 
first 20 degrees of Simhav the last 27 degrees of 
Vrishabha (27 degrees after the highest exaltation 
degree), the first 12 degrees of Mesha, the 5 degrees 
following the highest exaltation degree of Mercury in 
Kanya (/. e., IS"" to 20""), the first 10 degrees in Dhanus, 
the first five degrees in Tula and the first 20 degrees 
of Kumbha form respectively the Moolatrikona por- 
tions of the 7 planets from the Sun onwards. The first 
half of Ejhanus, Kanya, Mithuna, Kumbha and Tula are 
bipeds or human signs. Vrischika is a (Keeta ‚Äî 
reptile) or centiped sign; Karkataka, latter half of Maka 
ra and Meena are watery signs. The rest, viz., Mesha- 
Vrishabha, Simha, Dhanus (latter half) and Makara (first 
half) are quadruped signs. 

g Wg u\\ 

Sloka 8 . ‚Äî The signs Vrishabha, Karkataka, Dhanus,- 
Hesha and Makara rise with their back ‚Äî Prish- 

todaya). Mithuna and Meena come under Ubhayodaya 



SI. 9!iO 




5 


The rest appear with their faaes arid are 
termed Sirshodaya signs. The rrishtodaya 

signs and Mithuna belong to the Moon and are termed 
nocturnal Rasis. The other six belong to the Sun and 
are termed diurnal signs. The four signs counted from 
the Rasi last passed (left) by the Sun are in their order 
termed (1) (Urdhva) or tending upwards (2) snj? 

(Adhah)-beneath or under (3) (Sama)-even or level 

and (4) (Vakra)-bent or crooked. The same order, 
holds good in the case of the other 8 signs. 

5ITT^ 

Sloka 9. ‚Äî The sigi^s from Mesha taken in order are 

(1) ‚ÄúSR! (Chara)-moveable or cardinal, (Sthira)- 

fixed and (Ubhaya)-dual, mutable or common ; 

(2) 5TT (Dwara)-entrance, (Bahls)-outside and 

.(Garbha)-inside ; (3) (Dheitu) or mineral, (Mula, 
or vegetable and (Jeeva) or animal ; (4) ^5 (Krura) 
or fierce and (Saumya) or auspicious ; ^5) odd and 

even and (6) male and female. Mesha, Vrishabha) 
Mithuna and Karkataka with their Trikona or triangular 
signs represent the four quarters commencing from 
the East. The six houses from the 7th represent the 
left-side limbs of Kalapurusha, while the other six 
houses (i. e., reckoned from the Lagna) represent the 
right-side ones. 

^ ^ =gr 5T5 =it i 

^ranr ‚Äù 

Sloka 10. ‚Äî Lagna, Hora, Kalya {*E^)¬ª Deha (%^) 
Udaya Rupa (^). Seersha Vartamana 



6 



- liWng) and Janma (ST*^) are the names of the- 
Ascendant or the first house. Vitta (f^W- wealth), Vidya 
* learning)' Swa ‚Ä¢(^)> Annapana (^IwqfR-riches) 
food and drink)'* Bhukti ‚ñÝ (eating), the right eye 

‚ñÝ Dakshakshi), face (^CTOT * Asya), letter or docu* 
ment Patrika), speech (WT^-Vak) and Kutumba 

( 55 ^) ^re appellations for denoting the second house. 


^ ^JTT ¬•iirrt ^ 1 

^ Jngw ^ =5r nun 

^rsrri- 


S/ofas ii-22.-Duschikya (^fk^XUras (^^T^r-breast),, 
the right ear, army, courage, valour, prowess and 
brother are the designations of the third house. House, 
land, maternal uncle, a sister's son, a relation, a friend, 
vehicle, mother, kingdom, cow, buffalo, perfume, 
clothes, ornaments, the nadir, Hibuka Sukha 

happiness), water, bridge and river are the terhis 
to denote the 4th house. . 

Rajanka (TRTT^-Sovereign's mark\ a minister, Kara 
(v^-tax, hand or toll)' Athman (*nrfl!!(), intelligence 
(^-Dhi), knowledge of the future, Asu (3Tf - life 
son (?tT-Suta), belly - Jatara), Sruti(^% ‚Ä¢ Vedic 
knowledge) and Smriti ' traditional law) are the 

names of the 5th house. 

sTffjr^rf^RftcSTiT^reifrwR: ii 

¬´ 

Slok:z 13.‚Äî Rina (5K0I- debt), Astra (^T^^-arms), Chora 
thief), Kshata (^?T - wounds), Roga (^*T-disease)' ‚Ä¢ 
Satru (?r^ - 6nemy), Jnati (5nf?r- paternal relation), Aji 



51. 14-15 


sTsamtsvTrnr: 


7 


'(3n% - battle), Dushkritya wicked ict), Agha 

(31^ - sin), Bhee'ti - fear) ‚Ä¢ and Avajna (arilTT- 

humiliation) are the names of the 6th -house. Jamitra 
(iTT^). Chittottha (f^rrflf^I-desire), Mada (JRT'passion)- 
Asta (3T^-set), Kama (^JT-desire), Dyuna (^sr)‚Äô 
Adhvan (3I¬´^-a way or road)# Loka 5?)^ ‚ñÝ people), Pati 
(‚Äôrf^ ‚Ä¢ husband), Marga (WI*i'-way) and Bharya (VTwf- 
wife) are the designations of the 7th house. 




Shka i^.‚ÄîMangalya (WT^^) ¬ª Randhra (tPSr), Malina 
X^TI^'T)# Adhi (3TTf^ - mental pain), Parabhava > 

defeat or insult), Ayus (^TTJ^) Klesa (|f5T ' sorrow), 
Apavada (3T<T¬´rT^ - blame or scandal), Marana (JT?!'ir - 
death), Asuchi (3T5r^- impurity), Vighna (f^5T-obstacle 
or impediment) and Dasa ' servant) are the terms 
to denote the 8th house. Acharya (sTI^T^ ‚ñÝ preceptor), 
Daivata (^^?T-deity)) Pitru (RrJ - father). Subha (spT " 
anything auspicious), Purva bhagya ‚ñÝ previous 

luck), Puja ("jsn - worship), Tapas ‚ñÝ penance) ‚Äô 

Sukruta ' virtue or religious merit, a good or 

virtuous act), Pautra - grand son), Japa (ST T-prayer) 
and Aryavamsa (^TWW^r-noble family) are the names for 
the 9th house. 





.^fokn IS.‚Äî The terms to indicate the 10th house are 



8 




Adh. f 


Vyapara ‚Ä¢ cojamerce), Aspada (3tTW^ ‚Ä¢ rank or 

position), Mana (*TR ‚Ä¢ hqnour). Karma (^^-occupation)r 
Jaya (SHT - success), Sat (H?^-good), Kirti ‚ñÝ fame), 
Kratu (SKg ‚ñÝ sacrifice), Jeevana - livelihood or 

profession), V yoma (¬´d)*T-sky or zenith), Achara STT^TC - 
good conduct), Guna (JX‚ÄôJT ‚ñÝ quality), Pravritti (sT^fw- 
jnclination), Gamana (*TffW-gait), Ajna(3n^T- command) 
and Meshurana (^^<ur) Labha - gain), Aya (arPT - 

income), Agamana (9Tr*T*r¬´r -acquisition), Apthi (sTiFh ‚ñÝ 
getting, gain), Siddhi ' accomplishment, fulfil- 
ment), Vibhava - wealth or riches), Prapthi (srriH* 

profit), Bhava (*r^)j Slaghyata (^TI^^TrlT-veneration, 
commendation), eldest brother or sister, left ear, Sarasa 

(*5IT^-any thing juicy or succulent), and (hearing of 
some) pleasing or delightful news are the expressions 
for the 11th house. 

Sloka 16.‚Äî The ' designations used for the 12th 
house are Duhkha ' misery), Anghri - leg), 

Varna Nayana (^JT*r?r¬ªr - left eye), Kshaya (^^T'loss, 
decline), Suchaka ‚ñÝ a tale-bearer, spy), Anthya 

(sir^i-last), Daridrya (Sflt^-poverty), Papa '(VT'T'sin), 
Sayana. (^^-bed), Vyaya (stf?!), Ripha (ftjqrj), and 
Bandha (^'^'imprisonment)* Thus have been declared 
in their order the names of the 12 houses. The 3rd, the 
the 6th, the 12th and the 8th houses are termed Leena 
Stthanas (^t¬ªnE^IT¬ªf'concealed or hidden houses)* 

5:5E¬´iifriT‚Ç¨*ifts5*RnTT^T5: i 

srrfri5r?r3r5T?iH=g'g4¬´nf^ ii 



SI. 18-H) . 9 


Sloka 77.‚Äî The 8 th, the 6 th and the ‚Ä¢12th houses 
are known as Dussthanas or houses of eviL 

The rest are termed good houses and-will be propitious 
to the native. The 1st, the 10th, the 7th and the 4th 
h 6 uses are known by the terms Kendra Kantaka 

and Chatushtaya 

3T5!i Hgq‚Äò=^qTf^ 

II qpr^^fq^Tq-T qqq: II 

Sloka Id. ‚ÄîThe houses next to the Kendras, /. e., the 
2 nd, the 5th, the 8 th and the 11 th are known as Pana- 
phara The 3rd, the 6 th, the 9th and the 12th 

are Apoklima houses. The 4th and the 8 th 

are designated Chaturasra houses. The 10 th, 

the, 3rd, the 6 th and the 11th houses are called Upa- 
.chaya 5 the 9th and the 5th are known as Tri- 

kona (Br^^) or triangular) houses and these are 
auspicious. 

Thus ends the first Adhyaya on "Definitions" in 
the work Phaladeepika composed by Mantreswara. 


II II 

^ ^ ^arfir%f^3r¬´T ‚Äôcnr^f ir^T^rq:; i 
^ gr5ri^rft¬ªn^ 

^srwR 11? 11 


2 



Adb. II 


ADHYAYA II. 

Sloka I. ‚Äî It is through the Sun that a wise man 
ought to ascertain about a person's copper, gold, father, 
anything, auspicious, one's own self, happiness, 
prowess, courage, power, victory in war, service under 
the sovereign, glory, any work relating to the God 
Siva, trip to forest or mountainous regions, taking an 
active part in Homas or Yajnas, temple, acuteness and 
enthusiasm. ‚Ä¢ ' 

TTig: 

s5‚Äô5f ir 1 

iRii 

Sloka 2.‚Äî It is from the Moon that one ought to 
determine the welfare of the mother, mental tranquilli- 
ty, sea-bath, white chowire, umbrella, good fan, fruits, 
tenderness, flowers, corn, agriculture, fame, acquisi- 
tion of pearls, bell-metal, silver, sweet substances, 
milk, etc., cloth, water, cows, women, good meals, 
bodily health and beauty. 

II^5TTS:%- 

Sloka 3. ‚Äî It is through Mars that a person should 
ascertain his strength, products derived from the 
Earth, the qualities of his brothers, cfuelty, battle, 
daring act, odium, kitchen, fire, gold, kindred, 
weapon, thieves, enemies, energy, attachment to 
females not his own, uttering falsehood, prowess, 
iftental dignity (loftiness of thought), sin, commanding 
an army, and wounds. 



SI. 4.6 




11 


^^^5 ^5nf^5>JTrTf jifSTr^f^ Wig^T 
^r^^rg?f 5 ¬ªTH 5 i^Tf^ 5 ?rr film?? 51%: jt%j? i 
51% 

l¬´riri: iiyii 

Sloka 4, ‚Äî It is Mercufy that influences one's learn- 
ing, eloquence, skill in the fine arts, eulogy from the 
learned, maternal uncle, dexterity in speech, clever- 
ness in religious meditation and the like, aptness for 
acquiring knowledge, intelligence, sacrifice, any 
religious rite relating to Vishnu, truth - speaking, 
oyster-shell, place of recreation, skill in mechanical 
arts, relatons, the rank of an heir-apparent, friends and 
one's sister's son or daughter, etc. 

^[JT ^^¬ªirjnrii5T =5r 

Shka 5 . ‚Äî It is through Jupiter that one ought to 
seek information about one's knowledge, good quali- 
ties, sons, minister,- behaviour, teaching, magnanimity, 
knowledge of Vedas, Sastras and Smritis, prosperity 
in everythiryg, beatitude, reverence to Gods and 
Brahmins, sacrifice, penance, religious faith, treasure- 
house, wisdom (learning), conquering of the senses, 
happiness of the husband, honour and compassion. 

¬´PrnT# ?F^crTw?sr f^5n?=T ¬ªrt 

Sloka 6.‚Äî Information regarding one's wealth, : vehi- 
cles, cloths, , ornaments, hoarded goods, triple sym- 



, Adh. II 


phony (uniop of song, dance and instrumental music), 
wife, happiness, scents, . flowers, sexual intercourse, 
couch, house, prosperity, pleasure in poetry, addiction 
to many women, sport, lasciviousness, ministership, 
charming speech, marriage and festivity should be 
sought for through Venus. 

g‚Äô wfH cJ^sf^Jjar ‚ñÝ 

ii^ii 

Sloka 7.‚Äî As regards one's longevity, death, fear, 
degradation, misery, humiliation, sickness, poverty, 
labourer, reproach, sin, impurity, censure, mis- 
fortune, constancy, resorting to low people, buffalo, 
drowsiness, debts, iron, servitude, agricultural imple- 
ments, jail and captivity, one ought to guess through 
Saturn. 

Sloka 8.~The Sun is of a bilious temperament and 
is strong in bones in the body. He has a limited 
quantity of hair, and possesses a dark-re^lform. He has 
eyes of a reddish brown colour. He is clad in red and 
has a square-built body. He is valiant and wrathful, 
and has massive arms. 

^ ^i%^oTsrrl^cr^^JTij53r: i 

^irT^rrJTB^ H*. ii 

Sloka 9.~The Moon has a huge body, and is young 
as well as old ; he is lean and white ; has fine lovely 
e^'es, black and thin Jiair. He governs blood. He is 

soft in speech, wears a white garment and. is beautiful 



‚ñÝSI. 10-12 




1:5 


in complexion. He has wind and phlegm in his 
composition and is mild in temperament. 


II? oil 


Sloka JO.‚Äî Mars has a slender waist, curled and 
shining hair. He has fierce eyes ; he is bilious and 
cruel in nature. He wears a red garment, and is of a 
reddish hue. He is wrathful but exceedingly generous. 
He has a youthful appearance and governs marrow 
in the body. 


5JoJ:a Ji.‚Äî Mercury is green as the blade of Durva 
or panic grass. He is a mixture of the three humours 

(Vata - wind), (Pittha - bile) and (Kapha - 

phlegm). His body is full of veins. He is pleasant in 
his speech. He has red and long eyes and clad in 
green. He governs the skin, is fond of fun and possesses 
even limbs. 

T%5IS3r5rT^¬´l II 

Sloka 22. ‚Äî Jupiter has a body of yellowish hue. His 
eyes and hair are brown. He has got a fat and elevated 
chest and possesses a big body. He is phlegmatic in 
temperament and is exceedingly intelligent. His voice 
is similar to that of a lion or the sound of the conch. 
He is always after wealth. 

If be the reading, the translation will be, 

^'He governs fat." 



14 




Adh. If 


f5^f^:i¬´T-. wiiT^ ^5*. n'^\) 

Sloka 13. ‚Äî ^Venus is clad in a garment of variegated 
colour. He‚Äô has black curled hair. His limbs and body 
are huge. He has much wind and phlegm in his compo- 
sition. His body has the colour of the Durva sprout. He 
is very lovely and has broad eyes. He has treasured 
his virile power. 

?srr¬´^rrii^ f^rfor: i 
3r?:i‚ÄôTftor?r: ^‚ÄôGorT^srd iiiyii 

Sloka Saturn is dark in form, lame, and has 
wind in his composition. He has got deep eyes, and a 
lean and tall body full of arteries and veins. He is idle, 
and is exceedingly calumniating. He governs the 
muscle in the body. He is cruel, and has no pity. He 
is dull-headed. He has got large nails, teeth, stiff hair 
and limbs. He is dirty and is of sinful disposition. He 
is fierce and is a personification of anger. He is ripe 
with old age and wears a black garment. 

Ir# vim 

:5*rhvrt^fsr#^Ri¬ªT^^¬´n5f Brvftgrff i 

Sloka 15. ‚Äî The following are the places frequented 
by the Sun : A temple belonging to Siva, an open area, 
an open place where there is light, a region destitute of 
water and the Eastern quarter. The Moon's abodes are- 



SI- 16-17 




16 


the place where Goddess Parvati is kept, the spot oc- 
cupied by a female, a place where there is water, a herb 
or plant, a spot where honey or liquor is kept and the 
North-west quarter. The places resorted to by thieves, 
or occupied by low people, one where there is fire, a 
battle-field and the Southern quarter are' declared to 
belong to Mars. Mercury governs the places frequent- 
ed by learned men, the spot where God Vishnu is kept, 
an assembly, a recreation ground, a mathematical hall 
and the Northern quarter. 

Sloka 16, ‚Äî The places belonging to Jupiter are ; 
Treasury, the Aswattha (Pfpul) tree, the dwellings of 
Gods and Brahmins, and the North-east quarter. The 
places of Venus are : courtesan's quarters, the harem, 
the dancing hall, the bed room, and the Scfuth-east 
quarter. Saturn's abodes are the lines where low 
people (out-casts) .live, dirty places. Western quarter 
and the temple of the deity (Sasta-generally 

known as Gc^/roSd in Tamil and analogous to 

in Kannada). The places of Rahu and Ketu 
are : an ant-hill, the dark holes occupied by serpents 
-and the South-western direction. 

II W\ 

Sloka 17. ‚Äî A worshipper of Siva, a physiciaiv a 
Icing, a performer of a sacrifice, a minister, tiger, deer. 



16 




Adh. IK 


and the ru^dy goose, are signified by the Sun. One 

who worships (Sasta) deity, a female, a washer- 

man, a cultivator, an aquatic animal, a hare, an ante- 
lope, crane and the Greek partridge ar^ denoted by 
the Moon. 

Sloka 18 . ‚Äî Matters relating to the cook (in the kit- 
chen), an arms-bearer, a goldsmith, a ram, a cock, a 
jackal, a monkey a vulture and a thief belong to Mars. 
A cowherd, a learned man, an artisan, a clever account- 
ant, a Vishnu bhakta (worshipper of Vishnu)^ Garuda, 
a Chataka bird, a parrot and a cat are represented by 
Mercury. 


qiTTSRT: ‚Ä¢ 

nnft JT?cT?gm?T- 


Sloka i9.‚Äî An astrologer, a minister, a preceptor, a 
Brahmirf, a Sanyasi-chief, an important personage, a 
pigeon, a horse and a swan relate to Jupiter. About a 
musician, a wealthy man a sensualist, a merchant, a 
dancer, a weaver, a courtezan, a peacock, a buffalo, a 
parrot and a cow, one ought to ascertain through 
Venus. 



?[r%5 i 




SI. 21-22 




17 


Sloka 20.~^n oil monger, a servant, a vile person 
a hunter, a blacksmith, an elephant, a crow, and the 
cuckoo‚Äî these have to be assigned to Saturn. A Bud- 
dhist, a snake-catcher, an ass, a ram, a wolf, a camel, a 
serpent, a place enveloped in darkness and the like, a 
mosquito, a bug, an insect and an owl ‚Äî all these should 
be declared to belong to Rahu and Ketu. 

HJTi: ^5: 1 
rarTI^ IRlII 

Sloka 21. ‚Äî Mercury is the Sun's neutral; Saturn and 
Venus are his enemies. The Moon's friends are the 
Sun and Mercury; the rest are all neutrals to him. 
Mars' neutrals are Venus and Saturn, and Mercury is 
his enemy. The Moon is Mercury's enemy ; Venus and 
the Sun are his friends. 

3T5tR^^i^ * 3 : iR^ii 

Sloka 22. ‚Äî Venus and Mercury are the enemies of 
Jupiter; Saturn is neutral to him. Jupiter and Mars are 
neutral towards Venus. Saturn and Mercury are his 
friends. Jupiter is neutral towards Saturn. Venus and 
Mercury are his friends. In cases where certain planets 
have been omitted, they must be considered to fulfil 
the relationship that has not been mentioned. 








18 


‚ñÝ I V n f iN. ‚ñÝ .rr rT 


Adh. 11 


^ g- SPTTfj; IR^II 

Sloka 23,‚Äî Planets are mutually friendly for the 
time being when they occupy the 3rd, the 4th, the 2nd, 
the 10th, the 12th and the 11th from one another. 
Ascertain what planets are naturally friendly, what are 
naturally neutral and what are inimical and then de- 
duce from these two kinds of friendship those that are 
very friendly and those that are very inimical. 

Saturn casts a full glance at the 3rd and 10th 
houses ; Jupiter at the 5th and 9th; and Mars at the 4th 
and 8th. All planets cast a quarter glance at the 
3rd and 10th houses, half a glance at the 5th and 9th ; 
three-quarters of a glance at the 4th and 8th ; and a full 
¬´ye at the 7th. 

srrf ; 

S7o^a 24 . ‚Äî The planets from the Sun onwards sway 
over periods of half a year, a Muhurta (2 ghatikas), a 
day, two months, one month, 15 days and a year 
respectively. 

Venus and Jupiter are Brahmins; the Sun and 
Mars are Kshatriyas. The Moon is a Vaisya ; 
Mercury is the lord of the Sudra community. Saturn is 
the leader of the outcastes. The Moon, Jupiter and the 
Sun are planets typifying (Satva). Venus and Mer- 
cury are essentially the planets of Rajas or 

passion. Mars and Saturn own Tamas or dark- 

ness as their distinguishing characteristic. 

The lords of the six seasons reckoning from 
Oreeshma are (1) The Sum and Mars, (2) The Moon, (4) 
Mercury, (4) Jupiter, (5) Saturn and (6) Venus. 



SI. 25.27 




11^ 


Brf^ snwri^?^^ 

rTST?^ cTf^UTTri: I 

3fH\f ?[rf5rf ?ft ^rTTrjnr: ir-^ii 


Sloka 25. ‚Äî The Sun and Venus are termed father 
and mother respectively of the child born in the day ; 
Saturn and the Moon, during the night. Failing to play 
the role of parents, each of these pairs of planets gets‚Äô 
the designation of paternal uncle and maternal aunt. 

The Moon represents the left eye, while the Sun, 
the right one. Mars represents the youngest brother 
andjupiter, the eldest one. Mercury denotes the 
adopted son. 



I 

^ ‚ÄôT^ srf^i: \R\\\ 



Sibka 26 .‚Äî The Moon represents the body, and th& 
Sun, the soul. Mars and the other planets denote the 
five senses. The enemies of the Sun, viz., Rahu, Gulika 
and Ketu will cause trouble to the body and the soul. 

Mercury governs smell, (nose); Venus and the- 
Moon, taste ; (the Sun and Mars, govern sight ; Jupiter, 
sound. The rest, viz., Saturn, Rahu and Ketu govern 
touch. 


t; qT‚ÄôTT: ^'ntrsr 





Sloka 27.‚Äî The waning Moon, the Sun, Mars, Rahu,^ 
Ketu and Saturn are known as malefic planets. Mer- 



20 


Adh. 11 


cury too in conjunction with any of them is malignant 
also. 

Ketu, Mercury, and Saturn are eunuchs. Venus, 
Rahu, and the Moon are females. The rest, viz., the Sun- 
Mars and Jupiter are males. Rudra (Siva), Amba (Par- 
vati), Guha (Kumara), Vishnu, Brahman, Lakshmi, Kala 
(Yama), the serpent Adisesha and Brahman are the 
presiding deities of the planets from the Sun in their 
order. 

Fire, water, fire, earth, ether, water and air are 
ihe constituents respectively of the Sun and other 
planets taken in their order. 

Sloka 28 . ‚Äî The Sun's grain is wheat ; the Moon's, 
rice ; the grain belonging to Saturn is sesamum ; that 
of Jupiter, Bengal gram ; that of Ketu, horsegarm. The 
grain signified by Mars is Dhal. Mercury represents 
green gram ; Dolichos lablab or cowgram (Q/i5/rioD:)<5F) 
is denoted by Venus, and black gram by Rahu. 

The countries signified by the nine planets, Rahu, 
the Sun, Saturn, Mars, Jupiter, Mercury, the Moon, Ketu 
and Venus are respectively : (1) Ambara, (2) Kalinga 

(3) Saurashtra, (4) Avanti, (3) Sindhu, (6) Magadha, 
(7) Yavana, (8) Parvata and (9) Keekata. 

iiTCriT?rg i 

^ IRMI 

Sloka 29 . ‚Äî The ruby is the Sun's precious stone; 
the pure spotless pearl which is fit to be beautifully 





21 


SI. 30-32 


worn belongs to the Moon. Coral belongs to Mars. 
Mercury's precious stone is the emerald shaped like 
the bird Garuda. Topaz belongs to Jupiter. Venus 
owns diamond. Saturn's gem is the stainless sapphire. 
Agate and the Lapislazuli or Turkois are said to belong 
to the remaining planets Rahu and Ketu respectively. 

?nw ^TgrTTST ^3 ^ I 

jt? h^oii 

Sloka 30. ‚Äî The substances ascribed to the planets 
from the Sun onwards are copper, bell-metal, copper 
ore, lead, gold, silver and iron. 

The articles of apparel for the several planets will be 
such cloths as bear theirrespective colours. But the one 
belonging to Saturn is a rag while the one appropriate 
to Mars will be a clothsinged by fire, 

^ ii 

Slokn 31 ‚Äî Pungent bitter, saltish, mixed, sweet, 
sour (acid) and astringent are the flavours respectively 
of the Sun, Mars, the Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus 
and Saturn. 

%g7nnf^?n:5r raiflrRETorr?^:!5ir i 

%% 3r¬ª?r jt¬ªt 5T?TR:j|iT 

Sloka .32.‚Äî The Sun, Jupiter, Mercury and Mars have 
their characteristic mark or token on the right side. 
The rest have their marks on the other side. The 
planets from the Sun onwards have marks on the hip, 
on the head, on the back, on the arm-pit, on the 
shoulder, on the face, and on the leg. 



22 




Adh. IE 


The Sun. is a person of 50 years. The Moon is one- 
of 70 year s; Mars is 16 years old. Mercury is a lad of 20 
years. Jupiter is a person 30 years old. Venus ista child 
of 7years. Saturn and Rahu are each 100 years old. 

Sloka 33. ‚Äî Rahu is black in colour, tall in stature, 
.and of a low caste ; he has got skin-disease ; he is a 
heretic ; he has got hic-cough ; he speaks falsehood ; 
he is cunning ; he suffers from leprosy ; he reviles 
others and is devoid of intelligence. 





f ^arrff rn^ ii^^¬´ii 


Sloka 34 . ‚Äî Ketu has a red and fierce look, a veno- 
mous tongue, and an elevated body ; he is armed ; he 
is an outcast, of a smoky colour, and is inhaling smoke 
always ; he has bruised limbs ; he is lean and is 
malicious. 


¬´ar cTtT^Rg %cft- 

srf^iT I 


Sloka 35. ‚Äî Lead and an old garment belong to Rahu, 
while a mud vessel and a mixed cloth of variegated 
colour have been allotted to Ketu. 

Mercury, Saturn and Venus are the friends of Rahu 
as well as Ketu. Marsis neutral to them. The rest are- 
enemies. 

5:5eer: wwfd I 



SI- 36-37 


23 


11^^31 



Sloka 36.‚Äî Planets are said to be badly-placed when 
they are eclipsed, debilitated (occupy a depression 
sign or Amsa), when they are posited in the house of 
an enemy, or when they occupy the 8th, the 6th or the 
12th house. In other positions, they are said to be 
well-placed. 

If the Moon be in the 12th, 11th, 1st, 6th, 5th, 
or the 7th house at the time of a query aboutwater in 
a big irrigation project, increase of water can safely 
be predicted. 

55TT: I 


rf ^TTflr 


Sloka 37‚Äî The Sun represents trees that are inward- 
ly strong and at the same time tall. The Moon and 
Venus indicate creeping plants. Ketu and Rahu 
signfy a clump of trees or a bush. Mars and Saturn 
indicate thorny trees. Jupiter and Mercury signiy 
respectively fruit-bearing and fruitless trees. Venus 
and the Moon represent those that are sappy and 
blossoming. The Moon represents herbs ; all sapless 
and weak trees are signified by Saturn. Rahu indicates 
trees. 

Thus ends the 2nd Adhyaya on "Planets and 
their varieties" in the work Phaladeepika 
composed by Mantreswara. 



24 




Adh. lit 


II II 

%^BTWTr?T5r^r¬ªT?n5rT?n‚Äò^?:n%!n‚ÄòT?n'^5r^^fs3r^: i 

^ ?n 5i¬ªfr^JT> l^3Tf^% ir^fsr: h 

ADHYAYA III. 

Sloka 1 . ‚Äî (Kshetra or an arc of 30^), .^sRIor Drek- 
kana, Decanate or an arc of 10^), (Navamsa or an 

arc of (Dasamsa or an arc of 3 '^ or id portion 

of a sign), (Hora or i of a sign, i.e., an arc of 15¬∞), 
nrsrtsr (Trimsamsa or ^<7 portion of a sign, i.e., an arc 
of 1 ¬∞), (Saptamsa or -Jth portion of a sign, i.e , an 

arc of 4|¬∞), <sri^5r (Shashtyamsa or ^V.th portion of a 
sign, i.e., an arc of tj¬∞) and (Kalamsa or iV por- 

tion of a sign, i.e., an arc of 12 ¬∞)‚Äî these along with the 
g[I^?[rT5r (Dwadasamsa or portion of a sign, i.e., an 
arc of 2 |¬∞) are termed Dasa Vargas or ten-fold divisions 
of the Zodiac. (Vargottama) is the name given 

to that particular Navamsa in a Rasi which bears the 
same name as that of the Rasi itself. 

Br^TfrmsTT: 1 

¬´r|Tr?TSirTic3r5cr ip.ii 

Sloka 2 . -‚ÄúFrom the aforesaid ten Vargas if we omit 
the Dasamsa, Shashtyamsa and Kalamsa, the remaining 
7 kinds of divisions are known as Saptavargas. 

If from this we exclude the Saptamsa (^RT^F?) the 
remaining, 6 kinds of division are known as 
Shadvargas. Some are of opinion that the effect ema- 
nating from a Navamsa is similar (or equal) to that of 
the Rasi and Bhava. 



SI. 3.4 




9.r^ 





iTJiTOrWt sr^ ^r^nr: 



Sloka 3 , ‚Äî The effect is full in the Rasis. In the 
other Vargas, it is half; and in the Shodasar 4 sa, Dasamsa 
and Shashtyamsa Vargai^, it is ^th. In an odd Rasi, 
planets are said to be in infancy, in boyhood, in adoles- 
cence, in advanced age and in extremis according to 
the first, second, third, fourth and the last six-degree 
portions respectively advanced by them in the sign. 
But in an even sign, these several divisions have to be 
made regularly in the reverse order. 

5?T^?f r^5TT^?n‚Äôsii: JT^rt^n: iiyii 


Sloka 4. ‚Äî Hora means half of a Rasi ; in an odd 
sign, the halves belong respectively to the Sun and the 
Moon, and in an even one, to the Moon and the Sun. 
The brekkana or the third portions of a sign, are own- 
ed by the lords of the sign itself, of the son's or the 5th 
house and of the ‚ÄòQth or the house of Subha. The 
owners of the Dwadasamsas or i\th portions of a sign 
are to be reckoned from that sign. In an odd sign, the 
Trimsamsas or degrees, i.e‚Äû ^^th portions allotted to 
Mars, Saturn, Jupiter, Mercury and Venus are re- 
spectively 5, 5, 8, 7 and 5. In an even sign, it is re- 
versed. That is, Venus, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn and 
Mars have 5, 7, 8, 5 and S degrees respectively. The 
first Navamsas in the several signs from Mesha on- 
wards commence respectively with Mesha, Makara, 
Tula and Karkataka. 

sr# ^ ^ %ft:5rT 

flrnf ^ H snsrari?: i 



26 Adh. Ill 


^vT 5 i:tt vijt 

^Tr^?n: >?TJT‚Äô^ ^tTRg s^T?nfr*n: ii'^ii 

SJoka 5 . In the case of an odd sign, the Krura 
Shashtyamsas or unpropitious wnth portions are 1st, 
2nd, 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th, 12th, 15th, 16th, 30th, 31st, 
32nd, 33rd, 34th, 35th, 39th, 40th, 42nd, 43rd, 44th, 
48th, 51st, 52nd and 59th. The rest are Saumya or 
propitious ones. In the case of even signs, it is reverse, 
that is‚Äî the Shashtyamsa portions stated as Krura in 
the odd signs are the propitious or Saumya ones in the 
^even signs and vies versa, 

#JT?: ^ 'sr^rt^^rfinTr grTrf: srfe^r: 

Sloka 6. The Sapthamsas or the portions are in 

the case of an odd sign to be counted regularly 
the sign itself, while in the case of an even sign t ey 
are to be reckoned from the 7th onwards. In the case 
of an odd sign, the Dasamamsas or jnth portions are to 
be counted from the sign itself ; in the case of an even 
sign, from its 9th onwards. The lords of the Shoc^- 
samsas or the i jth sub-divisons in the case of an o 
sign are those of the 12 signs reckoned from that sign 
onward and Brahma, Vishnu, Kara and Ravi. In the 
case of an even sign, this is reversed. The renowned 
or auspicious parts of great excellence arise from the 
several Vargas (Rasi, Hora, Drekkana, etc ,) by the 
combination (of the special characteristics) of Trikona, 
Moolatrikonabhavana, Swakshetra, Swochcha,, Kendra 
.and Vargottama and number 7 in the case of tho 
Saptha Vargas and 10 in the Dasa Vargas. Others 
leckon them as 13. 



SI- 7-B 2T 

5r4\^5r sprt^- . 

%%r: ¬´T^ ‚Äôsrgjfsrrf^srw'T^^^T^ i 

m^KTr^uTift^ncT^^^ 

Sloka 7 .‚Äú Consider with reference to the 13 Vargas 
a planet's position, whether it is in a friendly house, its 
own house or its exaltation house. You will have the 
following kinds of Vaiseshikamsas resulting. The com-* 
bination of 2 Vargas is called Parijata (gifir^irT) ; the 
union of 3 Vargas is termed Uttama *? that of 4 , 

Gopura (^ 5 ?:). When 5 Vargas combine, it is called 
Simhasana The union of 6 Vargas is called 

Paravata The combination of 7 Vargas is 

called Devaloka j that of 8 Vargas, Suraloka 

Airavata the name given for the 

union of 9 Vargas. 

Suppose Jupiter's position is 8 ‚Äî *1¬∞- -25'‚Äú~-r' or the 
2nd deg^*^¬© df Dhanus. He occupies his (1) Moolatrilcona 
(2) Drekkana (3) Saptamsa (4) Dasamsa (5) Dwadasamsa 
and (6) Kalamsa. Thus Jupiter must be declared to have 
attained a Paravatamsa. 

qiRsTtrrm^: 

'gr ^r^rrirTtr R>Trr: i 

¬ªft5?:vTr¬ªnT; 

gr: rer^Jnft iicir 

Sloko S . ‚Äî A planet in a Parijatamsa will make the 
native respectable, endowed with many good 
qualities, wealth, happiness, power and dignity. A 
planet situated in an Uttamamsa will make him modest, 
clever and of good behaviour. A planet that has 
attained a Gppuramsa secures to the person concerned 



28 


Adh. Ill 


good intellect, wealth, lands, cows and house. A planet 
placed in a Simhasanamsa will enable the native to be- 
come the friend of a king or one on a par with him. 

3Fr5ri^^ 

Sloka 9, --The planet that has attained a Paravatamsa 
will make the native endowed with very good horses, 
elephants, vehicles and other princely appendages. 
The person in whose nativity a planet has reached a 
Devalokamsa will be a king widely renowned for his 
good qualities. The planet that has gained an Airava- 
tamsa in a person's nativity will make him a second 
God Indra fit to be saluted by kings. The planet 
in a Suralokamsa secures to the native good luck, 
wealth, corn, children and kingship. 

*'‚Ä¢3^ 5¬ªT W¬ªT 

srmOT ^<T ill oil 

Sloka 10 . ‚Äî If at a birth a planet be weak in all the 
10 Vargas, it will cause the death of the native. If 9, 8, 
7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, or 1 out of the 10 Vargas be weak, the 
following are the effects in their order as a result there- 
of : (1) destruction (2) grief (3) calamity (4) unhappi- 
ness (5) love of relations (6) foremost among relations 
(7) friend of a king (8) a wealthy man and (9) a king. 
If a planet should be strong in all the Vargas, the native 
will be the best among kings. The effect of a planet's 
being in the (^75?) Bala and other Avasthas will be that 




SI. 11-12 29 


the native will be (1) progressing (2) happy (3) a king 
(4) suffering from disease and (5) dead respectively. 

sftJrrfsrt 

^5r: wnm: II? Ill 

Sloka II. ~ li there be a preponderance in strength - 
of benefic planets in the Shadvargas, the native 
will be very wealthy and live for a long period. 
If the Lagna should happen to occupy Krura Amsas in 
the several Shadvargas, the native will be poor, short- 
lived and of a wicked disposition. But if the lords of 
those Amsas be strong, the person concerned will be- 
come a king. If the lord (1) of the rising Navamsa# 
^2) of the rising decanate or (3) of the (rising) Lagna 
Rasi be strong, the native will respectively be a person 
(1) endowed with happiness and comfort, (2) equal to 
a king, or (3) a ruler of the Earth possessing good 
fortune. 

^ ^ lll=ill 

Sloka 12. ‚Äî The person at whose birth malefics occu- 
py the Sun's Hora in odd Rasis will be stroAg and 
sturdy, cruel in his behaviour and wealthy, while the 
one born with benefics posited in the lunar Hora of 
even signs will be brilliant in appearance, will speak 
mildly, will be pleasant and graceful. If it be otherwise, 
the effect also will be otherwise. If it be mixed, the 
effect will be mixed. In the case of a nativity where 
the Lagna and the Moon are very strong and the lords 



<30 Adh. Ill 

of the signs occupied by them be also similarly strong^ 
the person concerned will be endowed with long life 
without any sorrow and will be widely renowned. 

fTxrrffrfsrai Fc??;?!: ^t^nTT^rJ? ii^. 3ii 

:)ioka I?. -The last decanates of Simlia, Mesha; 
Dhanus, Tula and Mithuna, the first ones of Dhanus 
and Mesha, the middle ones of Kanya and Mithuna are 
termed (Ayudha Drekkanas) or 'armed'' 

decanates. The middle decanate of Vrischika is called 
"Pasa" (^1^51 or noose). The first Drekkana of Makara is 
called "Nigala" (f^TTr^- fetters) decanate. The first de- 
canates of Simha and Kumbha and the middle one of 
Tula are vulture faced. The last decanate of Vrishabha 
is a bird -Pakshi) and the first decanate of Karka- 

taka has a face like that of a pig. 

^^5CJrJT%srmmjT^qT%iri 

=^rrSf:itnT 

Sloka i4.- The first decanate of Scorpio, the last 
one of Cancer and the last one of Pisces are termed 
Serpent decanates. The second of Mesha and Vrisha- 
bha, the first of Leo and the last of Scorpio are called 
quadruped decanates. Persons born in these (/.e., when 
these decanates are rising) will be without wealth, 
cruel in disposition, vile in character and indigent. In 



SI. 1^-lb 3 1 


a dual sign, the 3 decanates in their order will be 
(Adhama or bad), T[^^Tn (Madhyama or moderate) and 
‚Äú (Uttama or good), while, in the case of a moveable 
sign, this order will be reversed. In a fixed sign, the 
order will be bad, good and mixed. Thus will the 
effects also be, when theae decanates are rising. So say 
the wise. 

\ 

?T^fr5nn‚ÄòT5Tflr^ m i 

rT¬ªTT f^rf^TSTCgCSr^OTt 

#lijrr=^TtinTtJr: 

Sloka 75.~‚ÄúIf the lord of the (rising) decanate be in 
his own Varga, or associated with a benefic planet or 
be in his own exaltation or friendly house ; if the lord 
of the (rising) Trimsamsa, Dwadasamsa or Hora (Lagna?) 
possessing strength be in a similar position, the per- 
son concerned will be endowed with all good quali- 
ties, will always be pure, clever, long-lived, merciful 
and wealthy, will possess children, will be widely re- 
nowned and enjoy all comforts in a royal style. 

Sloka 76. ‚ÄîNote the Rasi occupied by Mandi at a 
birth and note also where the lord of that Rasi is posit- 
ed. The Lagna at birth will be a position triangular to 
that of the aforesaid lord or one triangular to the 
Navamsa occupied by the owner of the sign represent- 
ing the Navamsa occupied by Mandi. It may be 
triangular to the Navamsa Rasi occupied by Gulil^a. 
When the Moon is strong, the Lagna should be de- 



32 Adh. Ill 

duced similarly through the Moon alone instead of 
through Mandi. 

^iT^nfsrirsn^riT^vrTSinnrTis!: 5¬ªirT^ i 
^?rr?or¬ªT?<‚ÄòT 

Sloka Z/. The Moon if posited in her own or a 
friend's decanate will make the native beautiful in 
appearance and possessed of good qualities. If she has 
attained an (Uttamavarga), she will also make 

him very lucky ; if she be posited anywhere else, she 
will endow the native with such qualities as belong to 
the planet owning the house occupied by her. 
Planets that are in their own Trimsamsas will do all 
that have been ascribed to them as Karakas. If there 
be at least one planet in his own or exaltation house 
and at the same time aspected by or associated with a 
friendly planet, the native will become a king endow- 
ed with riches. 

ar^HJ 5 %cT: I 

Herts# ii^-iii 

Slokc is. ~ A planet is blazing when he is in his 
exaltation ; he is happy in his Moolatrikona ; he is 
confident in his own house; he is delighted in a friend's 
house; calm when he has reached the Varga of a bene- 
fic pla*net. He is capable when he shines bright with 
unclouded splendour. 

sr^rfir^rr: ^ arntTf g¬ªf?n?r: i 

. Shka 19 . ‚Äî He is tortured when overcome by another 
planet. He is base by union with the Varga of a malefic 



SI. 20 


3 a 


‚Ä¢ ‚Ä¢ 

planet. He is exceedingly distressed when he occupies 
an enemy's house. He is greatly afraid when he is in 
his depression. He is failing when he has set or dis- 
appeared, 

WWRWTift 

WfJT 

Sloka 20, ‚Äî In the case of a planet in a 
(Pradeeptavastha), the good^effect will be full, while it 
will be nil for a planet in a (Vikala) state. In the 

case of the intervening conditions (Avasthas), the 
auspicious effects will be decreasing proportionately 
while the unpropitiousness of the effects will corres- 
pondingly increase. The nature of the effects of the 
several Avasthas will be quite in accordance with 
the appellations they bear. 

Thus ends the 3rd Adhyaya on ".Divisions of the 
Zodiac" in the work Phaladeepika 
composed by Mantreswara. 

II II 

wf^WJTT?' 

f ^ ^FTWIri; < 

ADHYAYA IV. 

Sloka 1 , ‚Äî The strength of a planet is said to be six 
fpld and they are in the following order: ‚Äî (1) Kalaja- 
or temporal, (2) Cheshta (^IJT) or motional, (3) 
Ucchaia or that derived from its exaltation posi- 



34 




Adh. IV 


tion, (*4) Dik (f^^) or directional, (5) Ayana or 

that derived from its declination (north or south) and 
t6) Sthana (;|cv]nqr) or positional. In the night-time, Mars, 
the Moon and Venus are strong. Mercury is strong at 
all times. The rest are strong during the day. In the 
bright-half of a month the benefics, and in the dark -half, 
the malefics, are strong. Planets when they happen to 
be the lords of the year, month, day and hour get b I, 

I and 1 Rupa respectively. 

g 

q-fTqrrR ii^ii 

Sloka 2. ‚Äî The Moon gets Cheshtabala when 

she is full. The Sun gets it when he is in his northern 
course ; the other planets, when in their retrograde 
motion. In planetary war, those that are posited in the 
north and who have got brilliant rays should be con' 
sidered as victorious. Planets have their full 
Uchcha bala when in their highest exaltation. As re- 
gards directional strength, the Sun and Mars are strong 
in the 10th Venus and the Moon in the 4th; Mercury 
and Jupiter in the 1st and Saturn in the 7th. Mercury, 
Saturn and the Moon have their Ayana bala 

in their southerly course. The rest have the same in 
iheir northern. 

srtTP 'srgi‚ÄôTgisnrgyri^‚ÄôTi^T-. i 

ii^ii 

Sloka 3.‚Äî The strength accruing to a planet in the 



sr> 


SI. 4-5 

six Vargas {viz. Rasi, Hora, Drekkana, Navamsa, Dwa- 
dasamsa and Trimsamsa) on a consid'eration of its be- 
ing posited in its exaltation, its own and its friendly- 
signs, etc., is termed its positional strength. That aris- 
ing from its being in Kendra and other Bhavas (i.e., 
Phanapara and Apoklima) will be 1, i and 1 Rupa 
respectively. The hermaphrodite planets are strong in 
the middle, the male ones at the initial and the female 
ones at the concluding portions of a Rasi. Saturn, 
Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, the Moon and the Sun 
are in their order increasing in their natural strength. 

f 11^11 

I 

Sloka 4 , ‚Äî A planet is said to possess strength when 
he is retrograde or when his rays are full and brilliant, 
though posited in a depression or inimical Rasi Oj 
Amsa. Like the Moon, a planet though occupying an 
exaltation, friendly or his own Rasi or Amsa becomes 
weak, should his rays be overpowered or eclipsed. 

rorr i 

Sloka 5. ‚Äî All planets are strong when they are in 
exaltation. The Moon is strong and auspicious when 
she has her full Paksha bala and the Sun when he has 
his full Dig-bala {i.e., when he is in the 10th house or 
the Meridian). The other five non-luminous planets are 
strong when they are retrograde. Rahu in Karkataka, 



36 


Adh. IV 



Vrishabha, -Mesha, Kumbha and Vrischika and Ketu in 
Meena, Kanya, Viishabha and the later half of Dhanus, 
in Parivesha (q‚Äòft%qr) and Indra-chapa are 

strong if there be a conjunction of the Moon and the 
Sun and the time be night. 

Sloka 6.‚Äî If the first Bhava be a biped sign, one 
Rupa has to be allotted to it; if it be Vrischika, the 
bala is I ; if it be any other sign, the strength is The 
strength of the Lagna is equal to that of its lord and is 
very powerful when the lord occupies an Upachaya 
(3rd, 6th, 10th or 11th) house. The same is also th¬Æ 
case when it is occupied or aspected by its lord, Jupiter 
or Mercury, when it is associated with Venus and is at 
the same time without the conjunction or aspect*of any 
other planet. The day-signs possess strength in day- 
births, while night-signs are declared powerful in 
night-births. 

Brcrr?^ <TfT^qr i 

#t5r ^r^r^rionq^ii^u 

Shka 7 . ‚Äî A planet gets one full Rupa as positional 
strength when he is in his exaltation Rasi. The strength 
is i when he is posited in his Moolatrikona Rasi. It is J 
when the planet occupies his own Rasi. When the 
planet is in a friendly house, his bala is only 1. In an 
inimical house, he gats only very little. The strength 
is nil when he is in his depression sign or eclipsed by 
the Sun's rays. 



SI. 8.11 


37 




%% ?r?i¬´jrTgf^cT i 

5r5nf^l% fteT^rf^cr ii^ii 

Sloka 8.‚Äî The strength of the planets occupying 
he 4 Kendras (1st, 4th, 7th and 10th) has been distin- 
guished by the astrologefs in the following manner; It 
is ^th in the 4th house; 4 the 10th, J in the 7th 
and full in the 1st or Lagna, thus increasing it by 4 in 
each stage^ 

Sloka 9 . ‚Äî The aspect from the 7th house is the only 
one that should be declared as most effective in all 
cases ; not so, the rest. But there are others who opine 
that the special aspect (of Saturn, Jupiter and Mars) is 
in no way less efficacious in producing full effect in all 
Yogas and the like. 

vr^riTJTTnf 

Sloka 10. ‚Äî Natural enmity or friendship between 
two planets is more fully effective than and preferable 
to their corresponding temporal ones as the latter is 
only a variable quantity and not a permanent one. 

?:3t ^ 

^ g HUH 

S/oka JI . ‚Äî ^In completely warding off evil and in 
promoting prosperty, Jupiter is the most powerful of ail 
the planets.‚Äô Mercury and Venus have a 1 and 4 



38 


Adh. rv 




respectively of that power. The Moon's strength 
serves as a basis as it were for the strength of all the 
planets. 

II 3T¬ªj II 

^rrTiri^iiJRii 

¬ª 

Sloka 12 . ‚Äî Find v/hat portion of the asterism occu- 
pied by the Moon has elapsed at birth. Reduce the 
same to Vighatikas. Divide this result by (1) 60 (2) 300 
and (3) 100. The three resulting quotients are termed 
(1) (Chandrakriya) (2) (Chandra- 

avasttha) and (3) (Chandra vela) respectively, 

Their effects are described below : 

II 3T?cr II 

wr?r5p7::;Tro{V ^^let 

Jcr^TT iii^ii 

^gr^^rrsri^tft f^?r^sF; i 

^ gufwaR: ^vn?r? *nr- 

w: ^TjJTjftBrmfrBrvr^'t iilvii 

?fts:r?t ‚Äôjcr^5=5^ i 

?5T¬´=nre¬´ft ft3%Br?T^ ^ wisrfBwcrt 

‚Ä¢ ^ 'T^r: ii vmi 


Sloka 13. ‚Äî (1) One that has fallen from his position 



SL 14-15 


30 




(2) one practising austerities (3) one intent on 
others' wives (4) a gambler (5) one who Is mounted 
On a mighty elephant (6) one seated on the throne (7) 
a ruler of men (8) one that destroys enemies (9) a 
commander of an army (10) a virtuous person (11) one 
that is dead or quite exhausted (12) one that is 
decapitated (13) one whose hands and legs are injured 
(14) a prisoner (15) one that is lost or spoilt (16)akin^ 
17) one that studies the Vedas (18) one that sleeps (19) 
one of a good character (20) one who practises virtue 

Sloka 14. ‚Äî (21) one that is born of a good family 
(22) one who has come by a treasure (23) one belong- 
ing to a renowned family (24) one clever in exposition 
(25) a destroyer o^ enemies (26) one who is sickly (27) 
one that is vanquished by his enemy (28) one that has 
left off his native country (29) a servant (30) one who 
who has lost his wealth (31) one that is always seen in 
royal assemblies (32) a good counsellor (33) one that 
is in charge of others' lands (34) one that lives with 
his wife (35) one who is afraid of elephants (36) one? 
.^'ho is timid in conflicts (37) one that is generally very 
timid (38) one that lives concealed or incognito ( 39 ) 
one that feeds others (40) one who falls into the fire. 


Sloka 15, ‚Äî (41) one that suffers from hunger (42) 
one that eats cooked rice (43) one that is wandering 
(44) one that eats flesh (45) one that has been injured 
by a missile or weapon (46) one who is married 
(47) one with a ball in his hand (48) one who amuses 
himself with dice (49) a king (50) one that is distres- 
sed (51) one that is in his bed (52) one that is served, 
by his enemies (53) one that is surrounded by his 
friends (54) a saint or devotee (55) one that is with hjs 
wife (56) one that eats sumptuous food (57) one that 



40 Adh. IV 

‚Ä¢ ‚Ä¢ 

drinks milk (58) one that does good or virtuous acts 
(59) one ihki is confident or self-possessed and {QO) 
one who continues to be happy. 

U II 

9ncii^¬´iT?ncsr^T^ jr%cT5¬ªTrfcft arrorfif^- 

. ^s:Tf^?rc5r 5i:T‚ÄôT?r?:?n3^i% 

^ fipTir?T^r^%ft:F^^?iT ii^^i 

^loka i6.‚Äî The following are declared by the wise 
as the effects of the 12 (3T^^9:rT0 Avasthas of the Moon: 
(1) Absence from one's head-quarters (2) becoming a 
favourite of an esteemed king (3) danger of losing one's 
life on account of service to another (4) possessing 
qualifications of being a ruler of the world (5) delight- 
ing to have qualifications and merits befitting one's 
family (6) sickly (7) holding a royal Darbar (8) fear (9 
torment by the pangs of hunger (10) marriage with 
a young lady (11) desire to have handsome bed a nd 
(12) eating sumptuous food. 

II 3T¬´r ii 

JfRfOTT SRIor- 

^ iiuu 



SI. 17-20 


41 


‚Ä¢ f__ 

si¬ß^5r arilr># srf^^ ii 

Sloka 17 , ‚Äî The effects of the Moon's 36 Velas 
have been thus described by the wise;-* (l) headache 
(2) pleasure (3) 'performing a sacrifice (4) living hap- 
pily (5) eye disease (6) being happy (7) amusement 
with young damsels (8) violent fever (9) adornment 
with golden ornaments (10) shedding tears (11) de- 
vouring poison (12) coition (13) stomach-ache 

Sloko 28. ‚Äî (14) amusing oneself in water, merriment 
and painting (15) anger (16) dancing (17) eating food 
along with ghee (18) sleeping (19) gift (of presents) 
(20) tooth-ache (21) quarrel (22) starting (on a journey) 
(23) intoxication or insanity (24) swimming in water 
(25) enmity 

Sloka 19. ‚Äî (26) the act of bathing according to 
one's own inclination (27) hunger (28) fear (29) 
acquisition of a sacred lore (30) * wantonness (31) 
meeting (32) fighting (33) doing a virtuous act (34) 
practising evil (35) perpetrating cruel actions and (36> 
exultation. 


^ sr$r i 

Sloka 20 . ‚Äî The Chandra kriya ^nd others 

described above will be found to be usefid and 
productive of effect in the case of a birth, a Muhurta 
(celebration of an auspicious event) and a query. .One 
ought therefore to particularly examine them and then 
only set about predicting. 

: 



42 


Adh. IV 


‚Ä¢ ‚ñÝ ‚Äî - 

?Tc5iar3T?:^?T^BifJTT^^ serr- 

?r^5ni^ scff^r ^ 553 : ii^^ii 

Sloka 21 , ‚Äî Pakshabala (fortnightly strength) 
is of special importance to the Moon, while the Bala 
arising from Sthana position) is important for 

the other planets. This when added to the other kinds 
of strength of the several planets will become very 
great. Other kinds of strength, there are many, similar 
to this. 

II ir ' 

I 

?n:gcrw fe<ft IPAII 

rr 

Sloka 22.-‚Äî The Sun is declared strong when his 
strength is 61 Rupas. In the case of the Moon, it is 6 
Rupas. Five Rupas are assigned to Mars and 7 to Mer- 
cury. Jupiter's Purnabala is similar to that of 

the Sun, that is, 6.j Rupas. Venus is strong when he 
gets 5^ Rupas. 

JT^?g ‚ÄôT^^r fg "Tii^rrJrf n:sri¬ªT^¬´n'^¬´iT : i 

?rcrorr ii^^ii 

Sloka 23.‚Äî Saturn should have 5 flupas. These 
are the figures representing the total Shadbala 

for the several planets. If the respective figures be 
otherwise, /.p., less than the above, the planets should 
be considered as weak. It is only after a minute 
examination of the several kinds of strength (the Shad‚Äô 
balas) of the several planets, one ought to declare their 
effects. 

5r?n%'i:RrJTRT7^7 rr^^wwig-jTTf ? i 

q-frr iiRyil^ 



.43 


SI. 1 


JTfW ^¬ªil5V5qrw: 

i 

Sloka 24.- -In the case of the Lagna and other Bha- 
vas, add one Rupa to the. strength of the lord of the 
Bhava concerned. Supplement this by the Directional 
strength (fe^^^-Digbala) due to that Bhava and also by 
the strength of aspect (^T5r^)-Drigbala) of that Bhava. 
The aggregate sum - total is the Bhavabala 
required. 

For more details about the several kinds of strength 
of planets, please see Adhyayas II and III of my edition 
of Sripatipaddhati. 

Thus ends the 4th Adhyaya on ''Determination 
of the Shadbalas of Planets" in the work Phaladeepika 
composed by Mantreswara. 

4iHji vah¬ª-¬ª 

II II 

3T?T?fH srrqr^Tfr: 

f^?nTT¬´i^jr5r%;rf 

frff5r^?r5rhn:T%qr^5TT¬ß^T% iilii 

ADHYAYA V. 

SJoka 1 . ‚Äî One ought to declare the acquisitipn of 
wealth by any person with reference to the predomin- 
ance of the Lagna or the Moon as the case may be in 
his horoscope. The source of such an acquisition will 
be the father, mother, a foe, a friend, a brother, a wife 
ora servant, according as the Sun or any of the other 
planets taken in order occupies the 10th place from the 
Lagna or the Moon whichever is stronger. His profes-^ 
sion will be that prescribed for the lord of the Navamsa 



Aih. V 


44 


occupied - by the planet owning the 10th place 
from the Lagna, from the Moon and from the Sun (seve- 
rally) whichever is strongest. 

viigfeqTs:! ¬ªTf3igf5WT^ ii^ii 

Sloka 2 . ‚Äî If the lord of the 10th house be posited in 
the Sun's Navamsa, the person born will earn his liveli- 
hood through fruit-trees, by the repetitions of 
Mantras, by fraud, by gambling, by uttering falsehood, 
through wool, medicine and the like, by working on 
metals or through service under a king or some re- 
spectable person. 

ii^ii 

Sloka 3 , ‚Äî If the Navamsa occupied by the lord of 
the 10th house be that of the Moon, the income of the 
person concerned will be through trade in water-pro- 
ducts (pearls, corals, etc.,) through agriculture and 
cattle - farming, pilgrimage to holy shrines, service 
under a damsel or trading in clothes. 

‚ÄôTaTcrTTT^'iTCTi?:^^? iiyii 

Sloka 4, ‚Äî If the Navamsa in question be that of 
Mars, the sources of income may be through metals, 
fighting in battles, cooking, lands, gold, inflicting 
trouble to others, weapons, acts of adventure, associa- 
tion with wicked men, spying or through theft, 

Sloka 5 . ‚ÄîIn the case of a person born with the 
lord of the 10th posited in a Navamsa owned by 
Mercury, the earning will be through composing 



'SI. 6-8 




45 


poems, the study of sacred scriptures, ,by being a 
scribe or through some clerical work, or some trick, 
through a knowledge of astrology, through the study of 
the Vedas on other's behalf, by repetition of Mantras, 
or by playing the role of a priest or by some pretext. 

Sloka 6 . ‚Äî If the planet concerned be in a Navamsa 
of Jupiter, the person born maintains himself through 
the help of Brahmins, Gods or through royal favor, by 
reciting Puranas, by the study of Sastras, by the preach- 
ing of morality, by religious instructions or by lending 
money (profession of usury). 

SJoka 7. ‚Äî The earnings of a person with the lord of 
the loth house posited in a Navamsa owned by Venus 
will be through a woman, cows, buffaloes, elephants, 
horses, through triple symphony (/. e., dancing in 
accompaniment to vocal and instrumental music), 
through silver, scents, milk, ornaments and silken 
fineries, by virtue of being a companion (Aid-de-camp.) 
to a king, or by his poetic talents. 

Sloka 8 . ‚Äî The person in whose nativity the lord of 
the 10th house is sheltered in Saturn's Navamsa lives 
* by dealing in roots and fruits, by physical exertion, 
(sweating labour), through servants, rogues and 
through the earnings of ihep of low morality, through 
bad grains,* by carrying burden, by resorting to base 



4a 


Adh. VI 

avocations, through sculpture, wooden materials and 
by functioning as an executioner or a butcher. 

^57 irlTf^qr^ ^rr: i 

37!IT5?Ttwf^5T ^ ^ 

qrT%^3r rrrf^qwT^ ii'^.ii 

f % Ji?Vs5r?:f^?:ra<TrirT qr^r^Rr^ET^TT q:ir?3ftqt 
?rm ii 

Sloka 9,- 'When the planet owning the Navamsa is 
strong, there will be acquisition of wealth without any 
exertion. If it should be weak, very little wealth ac- 
crues. The country of acquisition will be that signified 
by the sign representing the 10th house or the Navamsa 
occupied by the lord of the 10th house. But if this sign 
be occupied or aspected by its lord, he will earn in his 
own country. The same will be the result if the 
Navamsa occupied by the lord of the 10th house be an 
immoveable Rasi. And if the said sign be occupied or 
aspected by planets other than its lord, the native will 
earn in a place other than his own native country. 

Thus ends the 5th Adhyaya on '"Profession and 

Livelihood" in the work Phaladeepika 
composed by Mantreswara. 

II II 

?nq; ii 

ADHYAYA VI. 

* Sloka 7-‚Äî (Ruchaka), ttIT (Bhadra), (Hamsa), 

(Malava) and (Sasa) are the five Yogas which- 



SI. 2-3 


47 




are formed by the planets Mars, Mercury, ^Jupiter, 
Venus and Saturn respectively when each* of them oc- 
cupies a Kendra identical with its (Swakshetra) 

or (Swochcha). 

irffr^r^nr^iq: i 

3TT3‚Äô:iTIJi: ^^5Ti5rf 

^T?:^^n-3!^s^Rr¬•r^^i^R^?!T5:^: irii 

SJoka 2. -The person born in the (Ruchaka) Yoga 

will have a long face, will acquire wealth by doing 
many daring deeds, will be brave, will overcome his 
enemies, will be powerful and will be arrogant. He 
will become renowned for his merits, will be a leader 
of an army and will emerge victorious in all his 
attempts, The man born in the (Bhadra) Yoga will be 
gifted v/ith long life and keen intellect, will be clean, 
praised by the learned, will lead men, will be very rich 
and clever in addressing an assembly. 

fel: I 

JTr5rs% ii^ii 

Sloka 3 . ‚Äî The person born in the (Hamsa) yoga 
will be a king extolled by the good. He will have in 
his legs and hands marks of (Sankha), (Padma) 

(Matsya) and 3Tfr^ (Ankusa) Rekhas. He will pos- 
sess a beautiful body, will eat sumptuous food and will 
be of a righteous disposition. The man born in the 
(Malavya) Yoga will have strong limbs, will b| resolute, 
wealthy, endowed with wife, children and good fortune' 



48 




Adh. V 


will be prosperous, will eat good meals, enjoy 
pleasures, command good vehicles, and will become 
famous and learned. He will possess unperturbed 
senses. 

?nr?cT: 5Frt3r^: ^rr 

^[r5r‚ÄôTt*T^s?q-^f^?TtRrTrrf^5r?T5 i 

^rViTtTjjsFfiTT ^r5r[75T^%Er^ 

vTFq-^nij: ii^ii 

Sloka ^,-*-The person born in the (Sasa 

Yoga) will be extolled by all, will have good servants, 
will be strong, will be the headman of a village or a 
King, will be wicked in disposition, will have intrigues 
with women not his own, will usurp others' wealth and 
be happy. Just as these five Yogas arise when reckon- 
ed from the Lagna, similarly they are possible when 
counted even from the Moon's place. They bestow on 
the native an empire and perfection. The person who 
happens to have one, two, three, four or all the iive 
Yogas will respectively be a (1) fortunate man (2) one 
equal to a King (3j a King, (4) an Emperor, and (5) one 
superior to No 4. 

%ir^jrr 

^ ii'^n 

Sloka 5.- -When planets other than the Sun occupy 
the 2nd, the 12th or both houses reckoned from the 
Moon, the resulting 3 Yogas are respectively styled 
wqTRT (Sunapha), (Anapha) and (Duru 

dhara). In the absence of the 3 Yogas defined above, 
there is the (Kemadruma) Yoga. There are some 

who decKire that there is no (Kemadruma) where 



SI- 6-8 .49^ 


a Kendra or the Moon is associated with a planet, or 
where planets occupy a Kendra house reckoned from 
the Moon. 

^^TirfviTrrTf^: ¬´TTmqreTf?my ^rr 

% ^fr^ri^r ^srsrwflrJTTsj i 

wcr^fi- 

fiT^T^¬ªsT^%'Tt 11^.11 

S}okc 2 6. ‚Äî The person who has had his birth in the 
5?T5T^r (Sunapha) Yoga will be a king or his equal, with 
self-acquired property, and renowned for his wisdom 
and wealth. The man born under the ^TJTTFTr (Anapha) 
Yoga will be powerful, healthy, with amiable manners, 
known to fame, blessed with material comforts, well- 
dressed, contented and happy. 

¬ª?rOTsr 45T5n?Tr: ii^ii 

Sloka 7.‚Äî Taking freely to the joys of life as they 
crop up and blessed with abundance of wealth and 
vehicles, the person born under the (Durudhura) 

Yoga is bountiful and waited upon by faithful at- 
tendants. But those born under the (Kema- 

druma) Yoga, though they may be of a princely Irace, 
become obscure, miserable, given to base ways, 
penurious, drudging as menials and wickedly-inclined, 

gw: qw^frr: i 

n<ill 



‚Ä¢^O- Adh. VI 

Shka S.‚ÄîIf benefic planets other than the Moon oc- 
cupy the 2nd, 12th and both the Bhavasfrom the Sun, 
the resulting Yogas are respectively termed 
{Subhavesi\ (Subhavasi), and 

(Subhobhayachari). But if^ the planets in qestion be 
malefic, the concerned Yogas are called (Papa- 

vesi), etc., When the 12th and the 2nd Bhavas from the 
Lagna are occupied by benefics, the Yoga is 

fSubhakartari). It is called (Papakartari), when 

the above two houses are occupied by malefics. If bene- 
fics unaspected by malefics, occupy the 2nd house 
from the Lagna, the Yoga is termed 5R3TCT (Susubha). 

‚ñÝsi* 

^ritTT i 

Sloka 9. ‚Äî The person born in a (Suvesi) Yoga 

will be very handsome, happy, a store of merit, brave, a 
King and virtuous. He who is born in a (Suvasi) 

Yoga will become famous, will be liked by all, will be 
exceedingly prosperous, liberal and the favourite of the 
sovereign. The man who has his birth in the 
(Subhayachari) Yoga will have beautiful limbs, will be 
affable in address, will delight the world, will be 
eloquent in his speech, renowned and wealthy. 

urm^fir ‚Ä¢ 

Sloka JO ‚Äî The person born in the aiTWSr%f^ (Asubha- 



SI. 11-13 




61 


vesi) Yoga will unjustly vilify others; lose his 
splendour (beauty), will associate with the low and 
will be wicked. One who is born in an 
(Asubhavasi) Yoga will be deceitful, will abuse others, 
and will befriend the wicked. He will be of unrighteous 
conduct, but will quote Sastras and Scriptures. 

The man with an (Asubhobhayachari) 

Yoga will be mentally much afficted owing to public 
dishonour. He will be bereft of learning, wealth and 
luck. 

??Tr- 

II I'll 

Sloka 11.‚Äî The person who has his birth in a 
(Subhakartari) Yoga will be long-lived, fear- 
less, free from disease, without enemies, happy and 
rich. He who is born in a (P.apakartari) Yoga 

will be poor, impure, unhappy, bereft of wife and 
children, deprived of some limb and short-lived." 

3TI=5n?:^Tq: ST^'sT: Tlfi^FTIrr^q-: I 

f^ii?r¬•TT‚ÄôFir¬´r if . <11 

Sloka 12. ‚Äî ^The person born in the (Amala) 

Yoga will be virtuous, pious, kindly disposed, fortu. 
nate, amiable, highly revered by his sovereign, gentle, 
affable in his speech and wealthy. 

iF^ii 

Sloka 23 .‚Äî In the case of (Susubha), 

(Subhakartari), (Subhavesi) and other Yoga^ 



52 




Adh. VI 


the elfects given for (Sunapha) and other Yogas 

caused by b^nefics should be adopted. In the case of 
(Asubha), (Papakartari), (Papa- 

vesi) and other Yogas caused by malefics, the effects 
‚ñÝwill be just the contrary. 


?5flnrf ?TST^^ I 

5 jn.f^cr 5r?n- 

irfe^T! iil¬´ii 


5,0^0 14. If, at a day - birth in the case of a male, 
tUe bun, the Moon and the Lagna are in odd signs, the 
(Mahabhagya) Yoga is formed. The same Yoga 
in the case of females will arise when the birth is at 
night and the Sun, the Moon and the Lagna are posited 
in even signs. The Moon in a Kendra position to 
Jupiter brings on %^6r (Kesari) Yoga. The Moon in the 
12th/ 8th or 6th house from Jupiter causes 
(Sakata). Bui if the Moon be in a Kendra house from 
the Lagna, there is no (Sakata). The 

{Adhama), (Sama) and (Varishtha) Yogas are 

formed when the Moon occupies respectively a 
Kendra, a Panaphara and an Apoklima house counted 
from the Sun. 

fkt jl": ?rvTgq*Trm m \\W\ 

Sloka 25,‚Äî The person who has his birth in a 
(Mahabhagya) Yoga will cause immense pleasure to 
all people, by his mere appearance, will be very liberal 
in his gifts and famous. He will be.arul^r of the 



;!S 1 . 16-18 


53 




earth, living for 80 years and of a spotless character. 
If a female be born under this Yoga, she will be 
endowed with wealth, a long-lived husband, sons, and 
grandsons. She will be exceedingly lucky and 
well-behaved. 

'CTT 1%: 1 

Sloka 16 , ‚Äî The person born in the (Kesari) 

Yoga will destroy, like a lion, all his enemies. He will 
speak loftily or nobly in an assembly. He will be 
passionate and emotional in his behaviour. He will be 
long-lived, highly renowned and exceedingly intel- 
ligent. He will conquer everything by his own valour. 

5;^: I 

^^ssT%:i^STR:fi4jfT??r:?[r5'-r \\\'^\\ 

Sloka 17 , ‚Äî -The person born in the (Sakata) 

Yoga will often become unfortunate (lose his luck), and 
may again regain what he once lost He will be a very 
ordinary and insignificant man in the world. ^He will 
attain much mental grief that is inevitable and will be 
exceedingly unhappy. 

Sloka IS . ‚Äî According as the Yoga at birth is Kashta 

or sr^ff-Adhama), Madhyama (iT>t3[rJT or ^^'Sama), 
or Vara or ^f^^-Varishtha), the wealth, vehicles, 

fame, happiness, knowledge, intellectual precision, 
modesty, ability, learning, liberality and enjoyment of 
the person born will be at the lowest, middling or 
liighest respectively. 



54 




Adh. vr 


551T qr^q‚ÄôW WjfsTf^ sr^y^If^ftsrft 5T%?5^^^: 111*^11 

Sloka 19. ‚Äî If all the benefics occupy (Upa- 

chaya) houses whether reckoned from the Lagna or the 
Moon, the resulting Yoga is termed (Vasumat). 

When benefics occupy the 10th house counted from the 
Lagna or the Moon, the Yoga is called 3Tir^T (Amala). 
If the lord of the Rasi occupied by the Moon is in 
conjunction with the lord of the Lagna and be posited 
in a Kendra or in the house of a very friendly plane 
and if at the same time a benefic planet possess 
ing strength aspect the Lagna, the resulting Yoga 
is called (Pushkala). 

VIJft W?lw:??T'Tlrrt I 

IRoii 

Sloka 20.‚Äî The person born in the (Vasumat) 

Yoga will always keep to his house, and will command 
plenty of money. Ke who has his birth in the 3 TJTOT 
(Amala) Yoga will rule over the eaxth, will be wealthy, 
will have sons, will be famous, prosperous and prudent. 
He who is born in the 5 ^^;^ (Pushkala) Yoga will be 
wealthy, will be honoured by Kings, and become 
famous. He will be decorated with beautiful ornaments 
and clothes. He will be sweet-tongued, supremely 
good and a lord. 

fenrr 



51 . 1 




SJoka 2L If all the benefic planets in regular order 
occupy the 5th, 6th and 7th houses, the Yoga is called 
(Subhamala). But if they should be posited in 
the 8th, 6th and 12th houses, it is called 
(Asubhamala). If the lord of the 9th and Venus be 
posited in their own or exaltation houses identical with 
a Trikona or a Kendra, the resulting Yoga is 
^Lakshmi). If the Moon in the above position be 
aspected by Jupiter, the Yoga is (Gauri). 

Sloka 22 . ‚Äî The person born in a (Sumala) 

Yoga will be a governor (or director), will be extolled 
by Kings and will be devoted to enjoyment. He will 
be liberal in gifts, helpful to others in getting their 
work done, and will love his relations. He will be 
blessed with a good wife and sons and will be 
courageous. 

^rrriR?)i 

Sloka 23 . ‚Äî He who is born in an ST^VT^ITT^^T 
Asubhamalika) Yoga will resort to bad ways, will be 
unhappy, will tease or kill others, will be ungrateful, 
will b¬Æ timid, will have no reverence for Brahmins, will 
be cursed by the public and will be fond of (promoting) 
quarrels. 

rT?T!% 

^ n^yii 

Sloka 24. ‚Äî The person born in a ^^4)' (Lakshmi) 
Yoga will ‚Äôever be sporting with a damsel of a very 



56 




Adh. Vli! 


amiable disposition. He will be free from disease, 
wealthy and brilliant. He will protect all his people. He 
will be the recipient of blessings from the Goddess 
of wealth. He will go in beautiful palanquins or travel 
on horseback or seated on an elephant. He will be the 
best of Kings pleasing all his* subjects and liberal in 
his gifts. 

i 

Tf Ilk'll! 

Sloka 25. ‚Äî The person born in the jflfT (Gouxi) Yoga 
will have a beautiful body, will come of an illustrious 
family, and will be a friend of the sovereign. His sons 
will be of a very good character. He will have a lotus. 
like face, and his success (over his opponents) will be 
praised by one and all. 

Sloka 2G. ‚Äî ^If Venus, Jupiter and Mercury occupy a 
Kendra, a Trikona or the second house, and Jupiter be 
also in his exaltation, his own or a friendly house and 
possess strength, the resulting Yoga is termed 
(Saras wati). 

f^orra: ?Kfi^rrrJrsr5¬´T^¬ªn?rn^t¬´Jifit¬ªrcT : i 

^^5i?T¬´rtTr3fy vrii^r^iTsj: iikvsii 

Sloka 27. ‚Äî The person who has his birth in the 
(Saraswati) Yoga is highly intelligent, clever, 
in dramaturgy, in prose coiAposition, versifying, 
accounts and poetics. He is^-skilled in poetry, in 
narrative composition and in the exposition of sacred 



SI. 28-29 


57 




texts. His fame has spread over the three worlds. 
He is exceedingly wealthy, and is endowed with wife 
and children. He is fortunate, and commands respect 
from the best of kings. 

Shka28, ‚Äî If the lord of the Lagna, the Sun and 
the Moon, being in Kendra or Trikona occupy their 
exaltation, own or friendly houses, the resulting Yoga 
is termed (Srikantha). If Venus, the lord of the 

9th and Mercury be similarly placed, the Yoga is called 
5jft;Rrpqr (Srinatha). If Jupiter, the lord of the 5th and 
Saturn occupy similar positions, the Yoga formed is 
called fcrftf^ (Virinchi). 

3TrrJTT = lord of the 5th house, C‚Äò. 

(1-12 ‚Äîsupra.) 

TT^TrJTT 

srgf^cr: ip.^.ii 

Sloka 29 .‚Äî The person born in the (Srikantha) 

Yoga will be decked with Rudraksha rosaries, with his 
body made white by the besmearing of the sacred 
ashes. He will be magnanimous, and will be always 
meditating at heart on God Siva. He will rigidly observe 
prescribed rites and will consecrate himself to the wor- 
ship of God Siva. He will help the virtuous. He willjbe 
free from malice towards the creed or religious beliefs 
8 



Adh. VI 


r,s ‚ñÝ 




of others. He will become powerful and his heart will 
become delighted by the worship of God Siva. 

55!:^rfi:.5rr53C 5rn:T=EroTiii% rr: 

^iTr q-^jrfir?Ttst^^vr¬ªT; sflJTT¬´r?itift5-5T: ii^¬Æ i 

Slokj 30. ‚ÄîThe person born in the (Srinatha) 

Yoga will be wealthy, resplendant and clever in speak- 
ing agreeably and in a humorous vein. He will have 
tin his body) marks of God Narayana (such as ?[T3[?r- 
Sankha, ;gr?F-Chakra, etc.). He will be always reciting 
in company with the virtuous the charming verses 
containing the name of that God. He feels very happy 
in showing reverence towards those that worship that 
God. He will be endowed with a good wife and sons. 
He will be loved by all and will be exceedingly 
amiable. 

Ill'll 

Sloka -The person born in the TWRfig (Virinchi) 
Yoga "will be lully absorbed in the knowledge of 
Brahma. He will be highly intelligent and will assign 
a predominant position to the Vedas over other sacred 
writings. He will be endowed with all good qualities 
and will be always glad at heart He will not swerve 
in any way from the course of conduct prescribed in 
the Vedas. He will have a good number of distinguish- 
.¬©d disciples. He will be gentle in his speech and will 
possess much wealth, wife and sons. He will shine 



SI. 32 

with spiritual lustre. He will live long and have his 
senses under control and will be saluted by Kings. 

fir5r|‚Äò5q'5^ft?f s‚ÄôTq'R:5R^?TR5n!‚Äúitff¬ªjm- 

Sloka 32 . ‚Äî When two planets each owning a Bhava 
(^r^) mutually interchange places, /. e., each occupy 
the othef's house, the action is termed Parivartana 
(TKcT^^r); and there are 66 such interchanges caused 
by the several pairs of Bhava-lords beginning from the 
Lagna and ending with the 12th. Out of these, 30 are 

caused by the lords of the 6th, 8th and 12th and are 
termed'^?q‚Äò (Dainya) Yogas ; and Bare caused by the 
lord of the 3rd ; thus : ~ 

T!io lord of the ilth occupyin^^ any on& of fclio oUier J 1 
hcfUS^i‚Äôi atul tilio lord of this latter houso o-'cupyiri^ tlio 1 Jth,... 1 I 

Tho lord of tlio f)th occnpydni^ any one of the remaining‚Äô 

1. 2. ^1, 4, 5, 7, S, h, 10 and 1 I lionsos and tho 1 )rd of this 
oceuiiyiny‚Äô the hth h> 

The lord of tho Bth ocoupyini^ any one of the rornainint,' 

1,2, ‚Äò3,4, h, 7, h, 10 and il houses and thi^ lord i>f this 
oeoLipyifig the Bill '‚Ä¢* ^ 

Tlie lord of tho 3rd occupyin.U' any one of the reiiuunin,L| 

1 , 2, 4 , 7), 7. 0, 10 and 11 houses and tho lord of this oeou- 

py in,'.; the 3 rd 

‚Ä¢ These 8 are called jjrsT (Khala) Yogas. The remain . 
ing 28 are termed JTfT (Maha) Yogas, 



Adh. VI 




Tliey iiv(; formed Uius : 

Th(3 l^jrd of (lie T^ai(na occiij)yirjg any one of tlie remain- 
ing 2, 4, 5, 7, 9, 10 and 11 Jiouses and the lord of tin‚Äôs house 
i)ccu])ying t!uj Lagna ... ... .... 7 

The lord of the 2nd house pccupying any one of the 

remaining 0 houses, -J, d, 7, 9, 10 and 11 and the lord of 
this la,ttm‚Äò ocen j)y ingf tlio 2nd ... ... ... 0 

'riin, lord of the Itli house occupying any one of 5, 7, 9, 

10 and 1] liouses and tlie lord of this occupying the 4th ... j 

The lord of tlic 5th liouse occupying any one of I, 9, 10 
and 11 liousos and the loi'd of this occupying the 5th ... 4 

The lord of the 7th occupying any one t)f 9, 10 and 11 

and the lord of this occupying tiie 7th ... ... d 

The lord of the 9th occupying the 10th or lltli house 
and tlie lord of this occupying the 9th ... 2 

Th(i lord of the 10th occupying the 11th a.nd vice versa 1. 

28 

Sloka 33.‚Äî The man born in a%f?T (Dainya) Yoga 
will be a fool, v/ill be reviling others and commit sin- 
lul actions. He will always be tormented by his 
enemies, will speak woundingly and will be unsteady 
in mind. Interruptions will arise to all his undertak- 
ings. The man born in the (Khala) Yoga will at 
one time go astray, while at another time gentle 
in speech. Sometimes he v/ill regain all kinds of 
^prosperity, while at other times he will have to endure 
much distress, poverty, misery and the like. 



‚ñÝSI. 34-37 Gl 

‚Ä¢ ^ 

‚ÄôTTT^gTH?rfjn?r?TiTi?ft ?nfrf^TTig?r^Tsj iiByii 

Sloka 34 . ‚Äî The person born in a (Maha) Yoga 
will be the repository of the blessings of the Goddess 
?fl[ (Sri) and will be a lord. and wealthy. He will wear 
cloths of variegated colour and bedeck himself with 
gold ornaments. He will receive rich presents from his 
sovereign and certain powers (authority) also will be 
conferred on him. He will command vehicles, wealth 
and children. 

?? !T^rrtS 5 !T?T 5 ‚Äò- 

Sloka 35. ‚Äî Find where the lord of the Rasi occupied 
by the lord of'the Lagna is posited. If the lord of this 
Rasi be in his exaltation or own sign identical with a 
Kona or Kendra, the Yoga is called (Kahala). If 

the lord of the sign occupied by the lord of the Lagna 
be similarly situated, the resulting Yoga is termed 
(Parvata). 

IT?T5r: I 

q‚ÄôtcTTtn'jrRT: II ^^11 

Sloka 36. ‚Äî He who is born in the (Kahala) 

Yoga will thrive well, will be noble, benevolent, kind 
and propitious. He will be respected by othet men. 
The person who is born in the (Parvata) Yoga will 
have everlasting wealth and happiness. He will do acts 
causing eternal benefit. He will become the lord of 
tjie Earth. 

^ ^5=^^ JTf|?Tvri?riTm I 
T:r3T^t*T ii^^ii 



Sloka 37‚Äî11 the lords of the 9th and 10th houses 
occupy in conjunction an auspicious Bhava, it con- 
stitutes Raja Yoga. If the lords of a Kendra and a Kona 
be similarly placed, i. e., be in conjunction in an auspi- 
cious Bhava, the resulting Yoga is called (Sankha) . 

snpJrT: 

Sloka ,?a‚Äî The person who has his birth in a TJW 
(Raja) Yoga will be a King who (when he set out) will 
be accompanied by elephants, horses, litters, palan- 
quins and the like, the roaring of kettle drums and the 
sounds of the conch shell, with a circular umbrella 
made of soft woven cloth held over him, praised by 
bards and minstrels and solicited by eminent men with 
various kinds of presents in their hands. The person 
born in ^H'^sT (Sankha) Yoga will enjoy all comforts in 
the company of many beautiful damsels. 

5*t =!ar 

Sloka (Vallaki) or jffoTT (Veena', 

(Dama), q‚Äôf^r (Pasa), (Kedara), (Sula), ^ (Yuga) 
and rftvT (Gola) are the seven Sankhya- numeri- 

cal) Yogas respectively produced by the seven planets 
occupying as many Rasis as are denoted by the seven 
figures commencing from seven and diminishing 
successively by one, /. p., by the numbers 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 
2 and 1. These ^T‚ÄôI^TT (Sankhya) Yogas are to be rec- 
koned when those mentioned previously are absent. 





SI. 40-4.3 



^r% rtriift ¬ªjqr%5JtT^TfV i 

¬•ft¬ªfi ^r^^‚Äô5#5r5r?'g: ?fi^l^^45r5=?F>: nyoii 

S/oka 40, ‚ÄîThe person born in the ^niT (Veena) 
Yoga will be fond of dancing and music and will be 
wealthy. The man born in the (Dama) Yoga will be 
very liberal, a King and a benefactor. The person 
whose birth takes place in the tn?r (Pasa) Yoga will be 
opulent, devoted to enjoyment, and have good 
conduct and relatives. The man who has the 
(Kedara) Yoga in his nativity will be endowed with 
wealth and agricultural lands. 

^5^: ¬ªTTTft i%% ii 

Shko 41 , ‚Äî The person born in the (Sula) Yoga 
will be cruel, of an angry temperament, and 
indigent. The man whose birth is in the ^?jTr (Yuga) 
Yoga will be heretical ard without wealth. He who is 
born in the (Gola) Yoga will be without wealth, 
will commit sinful deeds, and associate with low 
people. He will be a bad artisan, indolent and short- 
lived. 

?r?rr JT!=m ii 

Sloka 42,"-‚ÄúWhen benefic planets occupy the 7th, 
the 6th and the 8th places reckoned from the Mo.on or 
the Lagna, there results what is called the 
(Adhiyoga) wherein takes place the birth of a Com 
mander (Police Superintendent or head), a minister or 
a ruler (of a District or Province) respectively. He who 
is -born in the STr^T^rt^r (Adhiyoga) becomes famous, 
prosperous, wealthy, long-lived and high-souled. 



()4 Adh. VI 


Sloka ^3 . ‚Äî The person born in the aifvpft*! (Adhi- 
yoga) will become the lord ot men, will be wealthy 
throughout life (have everlasting wealth), will feed 
many of his relations, will overthrow his enemies, 
enjoy lorig life and become widely renowned. 

¬•ril; 

?:T¬ßri¬´rrJT^:%g^^3r57RT^5ri;^^TJTT‚Äôfj?:T . 
vrriq-^q-if^?Tq-ift3ririg^?n^rT?|r^'-Tr ‚Ç¨tT?frrr: iiyyii 

57o/:a 44 . ‚Äî Bhavas being occupied or aspected by 
benefics, their lords occupying good houses or being 
brilliant and in their exaltation or Swakshetra, con- 
stitute certain Yogas and there are 12 such for the 12 
Bhavas from the Lagna onwards. Their names are in 
their order: ‚Äî (1) (Chamara), (2) (Dhenu), (3) 

(Saurya), (4)3r?rt¬´r (Jaladhi), (5) ^ (Chhatra), (6) 
31^ (Astra), (Kama), (8) (Asura), (9) 3TiT?r 

(Bhagya), (10) (Khyati), (11) (Suparijata) 

and (12) (Musala). 

arr?rf crsrRr f ^vT;;T5ft5r: i 

¬´ftRf^vT5i% ssrm^csntr: iiy'^ii 

SJoka 45.‚Äî The person born in the (Cha- 

marayoga) will every day be growing in importance 
like the waxing Moon and will be' of a virtuous disposi- 
tion. He will become famous, a leader of men, long- 
lived and a store-house of prosperity. 

?:i3rRT ^ i ly^ii 

Sloka 46. ‚Äî The person born in the (Dhenu) 
Yoga will command good food, drink, etc. He will be 



SI. 47-49 




.65 


wealthy. He will have a very good education -all round. 
He will be blessed with a large family. He will have 
in plenty gold, gems, wealth, corn, etc., and he will 
shine like God Kubera. 

Sloka 47. ‚Äî Praised by his younger brothers who 
have themselves attained glory, and endowed with 
valour that commands the admiration of others, the 
person born in the (Saurya) Yoga will shine like 
Sri Rama, fully engrossed in State affairs, (fondled) 
loved by every body and exceedingly famous. 

JT%?T^R ^ i 

iiycii 

Sloka ^8.~‚ÄúThe person born in the :3r55'f^ (Jaladhi) 
or (Ambudhi) Yoga will be rich in cattle, wealth 

and corn, will have a beautiful mansion full of relations, 
an excellent wife, gems, clothes and ornaments. 
Further, he will hold a respectable and high position. 
His happiness will be steady and lasting. He will travel 
on elephants, horses and vehicles. He will be honour- 
ed by King^. He will eagerly engage himself in 
doing work for Brahmins and the Gods and in sinking 
wells and tanks by the road side. 

I 

Sloka 49. ‚Äî The person born in the (Chhatra) 
Yoga will be J^lessed with a happy family life and 



Acih. VI 




c i He will be the abode of wealth, renowned, of 

and learned. He will become a minister 

o a ing. He will be keen-witted and respected by 
others. 

sTorrf^rTilfsr ^g-Tn^^rtfr: iimoii 

v./u/c.; 50. The person who has his birth in the 
lAstra) Yoga will forcibly subdue his very powerful 
oes. He will he his behaviour and arrogant. 

Ke will have bruised limbs, but will possess a strong 
body. He will be quarrelsome. 


Mol: ‚ñÝ} 55 -The person born in the (Kama) Yoga 
will not even cast a look at others' wives. He will 
be blessed with an excellent wife, children and 
relations. With his good qualities, he will shine better 
than, his father, and he will attain to very great 
prosperity. 


S‚Äôoka tJ2 . ‚Äî The man born in the (Asura) Yoga‚Äô 
will spoil others' work and will become a tale-bearer. 
He will be intent on securing his own interests. He 
will be poor and have forbidden cravings. He will do 
mean acts and be troubled by the effects of his own 
disastrous doings. 




xrnar ferrr: i . 

sflori^ g‚ÄòTTiy g3 r ¬ª Tq! f 

5e5rT^It: ^^ Tf r alg g-: 1^311 



SI. 54-56 


"snftswmr: ,67 


Sloka 53 . ‚Äî He who has his birth in the (Bha- 

aya) Yoga will move in a palanquin (in the midst) fulj 
of sounds caused by musical instruments and with 
chowries waving to and fro. He will have everlasting 
wealth, will be saluted by eminent men, and will 
always pursue a righteous course of conduct. He will 
please his Pitres, Gods and the hosts of Brahmins by 
worshipping them in the most appropriate way possi- 
ble, will follow the righteous conduct, make his family 
illustrious and will have a very good heart. 

Sloka 54. -The person born in the (Khyati) 

Yoga will become a King who will protect his good 
subjects by following a course of conduct approved 
by all. He will be blessed with sons, friends, wife and 
wealth, and will be prosperous and widely renowned. 

Sloka vS5. - The person born in the q‚Äôrft^rT (Parijata) 
Yoga will always be in the midst of festivities (or 
auspicious ceremonies), will become a King, will be 
come the lord of much hoarded wealth, will own a 
large family, will be intent on hearing stories of 
great people, will be learned and doing something 
auspicious. 

g^^rsTSfirarai h'a‚ÄôiJi 

Sloka 56.‚Äî The man born in the (Musala) 

Yoga will become the owner of wealth earned with* 
much difficulty ; he will suffer humiliation ; his wealth 



Adh: VI 




will be unsteady; he will spend money only for 
egitimafe purposes, After his demise he will certain- 
ly attain heaven ; he will be foolish and fickle-minded. 

?rr^: ^3^r^‚Ç¨r5!TtJTf^:^^^^5qr: I 

.doka 57.-- If the lords of the several 'Bhavas from 

the -^co.py 'h.. 31]'., G1l.: url2th, cr if 

the BhdVds b. a::j,>cbaed vntli or aspected by malefics, 
12 kinds of Yogas are declared to arise for the 12 Bha- 
vas from the Lagna. They are in their order: (1) 
(Avayoga) (2) (Nisswayoga) (3) (Mriti- 

yoga) (4) (Kuhu yoga) (5) (Pamara 

yoga) (6) (Harsha yoga) (7 ) (Dushkriti 

yoga) (8) (Sarala yoga) (9) (Nirbha- 

gya yoga) (10) (Duryoga) (11) (Daridra 

yoga) and (12) (Vimala yoga). 

^^rf: frrTj: II^CII 

Sloka S3. --The man born in an 3T^^3T (Avayoga) 
will be insignificant. He will suffer from extreme 
poverty and will^be short-lived. He will be humiliated, 
he will associate with the wicked, will be of bad be- 
haviour and will be deformed. His position itself will 
be shaky. 

^ i 

Sloka 59.‚Äî The person born in (Nisswa 

'yoga) will be devoid of good (kind) words, will have a 
barren wife, will be in the midst of bad associates, 



SI. 60-63 (.9 


will have bad teeth and eyes ; he will be wanting 
i n intelligence, will have no children, will have no 
learning, and no power. He will be robbed of his 
wealth by his enemies. 

'4T3f^cr^4srjnTftfe5rt ii^,'¬ªii 

Sloka. 60. ‚Äî The person who has his birth in a 
(Mriti) Yoga will be vanquished by his enemies, will 
have no LrcLlieio, will be 2^volCi oI sbajiie, bi-ienyth 
and wealth, overcome by fatigue caused by doing 
improper acts and will be of an excited temperamenb 

¬ªarr?T ^TTST‚ÄôTmmTcT: 

Si'okn 67.- -The man born in a ^IT^Tn" (Kuhu Yoga) 
will be bereft of mother, vehicles, friends, happiness, 
ornaments and relations, will be without a situation 
or house having lost the one already got, and will be 
attached to a low female. 

5rif??T^S5Tf:3nT ii^,;cii 

Sloka 62. - -He who is born in a gUTT^TT (Pamara) 
Yoga will have a miserable living and will be in- 
discriminate. He will be a liar and a cheat. He will 
lose children or will have no issue at all. He will resort 
to low and wicked people. He will be an atheist and a 
glutton. 

Sloka 63.‚Äî The person born in (Harsha) 

Yoga will be endowed with happiness, enjoyment, 



70 


. Adh- Vr 

good fortune, and a strong constitution, will overcome 
his enemies, and will be afraid to commit sinful acts ; 
he will become a friend of illustrious and prominent 
people. He will have wealth, splendour, friends, fame 
and sons. 

PcT: 1 

Sloka C4. ‚Äî The man born in a ‚Äò(Dushkriti)' 

Yoga will lose his wife, and be addicted to others* 
wives, will be roaming on the roads unperceived, 
will suffer from gonorrhea and such other venereal 
diseases, and trouble from the sovereign. He will be 
despised by his relations and suffer distress as a result 
thereof. 

iTflrgrf?T iiV-'ii 

Sloka 65 . ‚Äî He who is born in a (Sarala) 

Yoga will be long-lived, resolute, fearless, prosperous^ 
and will be endowed with learning, children and 
riches. He will achieve success in his undertakings, 
overcome his foes, be pure and widely celebrated. 

=5r¬ß^:?5rwri^?rq; 

S,oka 66. -The person born in 
(Nirbhagya) Yoga will lose all his paternal property 
such as lands, house, etc , he will despise the good and 
elders and will be irreligious. He will wear old and 
worn-out clothes, will be indigent and reduced to 
great misery, 

grqr¬ªft =g- -^rJrsrrrr: 



51.08-70 


71 




Sloka 67.‚Äî The effect of a person's birth in 
(Duryoga) will be that anything done by his own bodily 
labour becomes fruitless. He will be insignificant in 
the eyes of the public. He will be a triaitor to the 
people, will be highly selfish, and caring to feed his 
own belly. He will be Qonstantly absent from home 
and living abroad. 

SJoka 6S. "‚ñÝ tie who is born in (Daiidra 

Yoga) will be loaded with debts, cruel, foremost among 
the poor, will suffer from ear-troubles, will be devoid 
of good brotherhood, will entangle himself in criminal 
or sinful actions, vvil! speak indecently and will be a 
menial to others. 

Sfq-|?44 1 

Sloka 69. ‚Äî The p>erson born in a (Vimala) 

Yoga will spend little and save much money, fie will 
be, good to every body. He will be happy and indepen- 
dent and will have a respectable profession or con 
duct and be renowned for his good qualities. 

^^srfW^Tarrfkrn: 

gTggT?'ggglg%: 

^‚ñÝfg g^¬ªg?:rg?:l%grgT ^gvrrgl 

gnr g^s¬´rig: ii 

Sloka 70 , ‚Äî -If the lords of the 8th, 6th and 12th 
houses occupy in strength Kendra or Trikona houses, 
and the lords of the 1st, 10th, 4th and 9tli houses be 



Adh. vr 


t2 


weak or eclipsed and be posited in the 6th, 8th and 
I2th houses, the result is (Duryoga). But if the 

above position be reverse, (j,e., the lords of the 8th 
6th and 12th being weak or eclipsed occupy thoser 
houses, and the lords of the 1st, 4th, 9th and 10th 
houses being strong occupy Kendra or Kona houses, 
the person concerned will be a King fortunate, 
wealthy, happy and virtuously diposed. 

Thus ends the 6th Adhyaya on ''Yogas*'' in the 

work Phaladeepika composed by Mantreswara. 

II II 

ADHYAYA VII. 

Slokr: 1. ‚Äî The person born with three or more pla- 
nets in' exaltation or Swakshetra and at the same time 
posited in Kendras, will become a King widely renown- 
ed. If there are five or more such planets in a nativity, 
they will make the person, even if born in an ordinary 
family, a King (ruler of the world) endowed with 
numerous elephants and horses. 

3jtn: 3Ti?n^ri!!ir 

'ITT^SIT: 

tijjKf! ... -Persons born in a royal family will be- 
come Kings if, at the time of birth, they are not born 
upder any (Duryoga' or if the planets be not 

eclipsec by the Sun* 3 rays. Three or mor^ planets in 



SI. 3-5 


7;^ 


Kendra positions at birth identical with their own or 
exaltation signs will make Kings of the persons born 
of royal families. Others under the above Yogas will 
only become their equals or sometimes Kings. 

^ ^ JTfT: I 

?!T^f^TT%f^q'rrT 

ii^ii 

Sloka 3,- Even a single planet, though in depression, 
is capable of making the person born a King's equal, 
provided he be with brilliant rays, retrograde in 
motion and occupy an auspicious house (/. e., other 
than the 6th, 8th or 12th). Should there be two or 
three such planets at a birth, the native will become a 
King. If there are many such posited in auspicious 
Rasis or Amsas, they will usher a King endowed with 
all the insignias of royalty such as. a crown, umbrella 
and waving chowries. 

^ qr svtmi 3Ti?r: 

%rqT q^¬ªsr¬ªn 

^ liyil 

Shka 4 . ‚Äî If at a birth two, three or more planets are 
endowed with Digbala, the native will, if he be a scion 
of a royal family, become a King and be victorious. 
Should there be 5 such (excepting Saturn) or at least 
4 planets possessing Digbala, the person born though 
of an ordinary family will become a King. 



74 Adli.VIl 

Sioka s.- When the Vargottama Navamsa in the 
Lagna is just rising, or the Moon is occupying a 
Vargottama Navamsa, and when the Lagna is aspected 
by four planets other than the Moon, the native though 
born of a low family will become a King. 

rrm i 

5gi^i5Fft?r pr^ssnirr^^rji; ii?iii 

sioka 6 .-- When the lord of the Lagna occupies a 
Kendra or the 9th house attaning a Vargottama Navam- 
sa, and the lord of the 9th house is in his exaltation or 
Swakshefra attaining a similar Amsa, the Yoga will 
usher into the world a King who will sit at ease in an ex- 
ceedingly beautiful golden vehicle placed on the back 
of an elephant, with chowries adorning the two sides. 

‚ÄôTTT%r 

rafter cTgvT tn# 

^g-g^q-irTTt STfT‚ÄôTRr {^TTsartff^TTtL 

sioka 7. Even a low-born will become a King if at 
his birth the Moon shining with white lustre be aspect- 
ed by a planet placed in exaltation or Swakshetra. The 
^ull Moon posited in a Kendra other than the Lagna 
will usher a King endowed with elephants and horses. 

nrcTift^t, i 

55?I5T: ssraRT ^ ‚Ä¢‚Ä¢ 

Shka S . ‚Äî When Venus occupies the asierism Aswini 
in the Lagna and is aspected by three or more planets, 
Jhe will usher into the world a King who will destroy all 



SI 9-11 7& 

his enemies. If the lord of the Lagna be strong and 
occupy the 2nd Bhava which is neither his depression 
sign nor is owned by an enemy and be in conjunction 
with Venus, the person born will become a King. 

Sloku P. ---If at the birth of a person Mars occupy 
Mesha, Simha or Dhanus identical with the Lagna, and* 
be aspected by a friendly planet, a ruler of the earth is 
ushered into the world. If the lord of the 10th 

be in the 9th and the lord of the latter in the 10th, the 
person born in the above Yoga will become a King 
who will be extolled by his people. 

=!Tr'Ti^ cTRif^'Tt 

5r?r ^ i 

?rwff?T ftrq-m nmTfrajri n^^ii 

Sloka JO. ‚Äî The Sun has reached the centre of 
Dhanus ; the Moon is just there; Saturn is in the Lagna 
and Mars possessed of much power is in the exalta- 
tion sign. If this be the planetary position at a person's 
birth, he will grow into such a mighty King that his 
enemies, overwhelmed by his fiery valour will da 
homage to him from afar, regarding him with terror. 

Ab/e‚Äî Here Saturn may be in the Lagna identical 
with Dhanus, Meena or Tula 

^ II? Ill 

Sloka 11‚Äîli the Moon brilliant with digits resemb. 
ling nectar or slaked lime and lotus stalk in colour (/. 
the full Moon) occupy a Navamsa owned by the Sun 



76 


Adh. VII 


and when bonefics unassociated with maletics occupy 
Kendras, the person born will become a King and will 
own many elephants. 

Sloka 72. ‚ÄúIf the Moon is as white as milk and conch 
shell (/. e., full) and three planets not occupying their 
depression or inimical Vargas but being strong and 
being aspected by benefics, get posited in their own 
Amsas, the person born will become a King and will 
vanquish all his enemies. 

Sloka 13.--11 the Moon that has attianed Vargotta- 
mamsa be aspected by a strong planet and if there 
be no malefic planet posited in the Lagiia, the person 
born will become an emperor and possess a beautiful 
body. 

ir#R?T llV^ll 

Sioka 7'7.‚Äî If at a birth Jupiter, Mercury, Venus or 
the Moon occupy the 9th with bright rays, uneclipsed 
and also be aspected by, or associated .with, friendly 
planets, the native concerned will become a great 
Xing worshipped by his subjects like a deity. 



51. 15-17 


77 


^T: I 

^;Ti^si5!r^?r sr^'s 5cgrT- 

^T SEJIT^lft lll'^n 

Sloka 15. ‚Äî Venus, Jupiter, and Saturn are in Meena. 
The Moon almost full is in exaltation. The Sun is 
aspected by Mars ; and sign Mesha is rising. The 
person born in the above Yoga will become a King 
owning a vast army by whose march large quantity of 
dust is raised which makes the Sun invisible and as a 
consequence all the lotuses begin to contract under 
the impression that the Sun has set. 

Another meaning : The Sun aspected by Mars is in 
Mesha or the Moon is aspected by Mars and the Sun in 
Mesha 

q'^rgtrn^f^wlr: i 

3Ti^T 

Sloka 16 . ‚Äî If there be a birth at night when be> 
nefics are in depression or inimical houses identical 
with the 11th, the 6th or the 3rd house, or be in their 
highest exaltation, or be all posited in the Kendras, 
with bright rays, and if the Moon be in Karkataka 
identical with the 10th house, the person born will 
become an emperor ruling the three worlds undei one 
umbrella. 


VTTgs Sr¬´TtrT5T%^'tS5T.^tf^ lllvj.l 

.Sloka 17 . ‚Äî If the Moon with full digits (fuM Moon) 



78 




Adh. VIi 


occupy a Vargottamamsa, the person born will be- 
come a mighty ruler of the earth and his fame will be 
immense. He will command a good number of horses, 
the dusts raised by whose hoofs will so overpower the 
Sun that he will resemble the Moon in the morning. 

Sloka 18.‚Äî II at a birth, Jupiter and the Moon occu- 
pying a Kendra be aspected by Venus and there be no 
planet in depression, the native will become a King 
whose fame will be unparalleled. 

argvT^?:: ?sr^ lllMi 

Sloka 79. ‚Äî If the Moon occupy a water-resorting 
Rasi or Amsa identical with the Lagna or be in his own 
or in a benefic's Varga, the person born will become 
a King who will do good to his subjects, own many 
elephants. Or, provided there are no malefics in 
Kendras, should the Moon in the above Yoga occupy 
a house other than a Kendra, the native will turn out 
a King owning many elephants but oppressing his 
people. 

WTt^r^ -wq-fir 

jjiTvt ?Tg¬ªft i 

Sloka 20. ‚Äîh scion of a royal family will become a 
King if at his birth Venus is aspected by Jupiter. 
Jupiter occupying a Rasi other than Makara identical 
with the Lagna will usher a King endowed with ele- 
phants# in rut. The lord of the Lagna* occupying a 



79 


SI. 21-23 


Kendra in full strength will cause a ruler of men to be 
born. Mercury in the above position aspected by 
lupiter will usher into the world a person whose orders 
will be obeyed by Kings. 

^5r|rTr8j?irm&'c5Tr'eft5T ^Frr^ariTTJT tr-t‚Äô ti 

Sloka 21.‚Äò ‚Äî A single planet occupying his highest 
exaltation point and aspected by friendly planets 
produces a King. Such a planet will make him immense- 
ly wealthy if he be also associated with another friendly 
planet. The Sun in his own Amsa and the Moon i.i. 
Swakshetra will make the person born a King 
dowed with horses and elephants. 

=5r% ^‚Äôqrr^g‚Äôp^r: i 

Shika 22 . ‚Äî The Moon with full rays occupy in i 
Meena and aspected by a friendly planet will usher 
into the world a King pre-eminent in position and de- 
lighting the world. If the Moon be full and occupy h s 
exaltation, the person born will become a King, very 
generous and charitable and praised by the good. 

Ffscrr gvri vj-rr^l 

Sloka 2.3.- -The Moon in the Amsa of a very frien^dv 
pianet and aspected by Venus will usher into the world 
a King endowed with much v/ealth. If the Moon in the 
above position be aspected by Jupiter, the person bcin- 
will become a King who w:"l rule the entire earth. 



80 


Adh. VII 




¬ªn¬´Tt%irr9¬ªrgpTT 3n=jRTSTr^ 

5j?n:s^ %f %i45T5^ I 

w:ff!?r5r?r?T%?TT: 

??r?5rr JcisnrtJng iRyii 

Sloka 24.‚Äî The following are 4 Rajayogas declared 
by those versed in the science : (1) malefics posited in 
the 3rd, 6th and 11th houses reckoned from the one 
occupied hy the lord of the Lagna or of the Janma Rasi ; 
(2) Mars and Mercury occupying the 2nd house from 
the Lagna; (3) the Sun and Venus situated in the 4th 
house from the Lagna; and (4) Mars, Saturn and Jupiter 
quartered in the 10th, 11th and the Lagna. 

irmii 

Sloka 25. ‚Äî If, out of the lords of the 11th, the 9th 
and the 2nd houses, there be but one that occupies a 
Kendra position with respect to the Moon and if Jupiter 
happens to be the lord of the 2nd, the 5th or the 11th 
house, the person born under the Yoga will become 
the ruler of a full-blown empire 

II ^fNrvTW^i^'Ttm: II 

sr^jrfjr ?Tt 5rf : ^qrixT^i%mvTT5f7 rrg^flrrsi: i 

^ i^Fgrsrm iR^ii 

Sloka 26. -If, at a birth, a planet be in its depres- 
sion and if the lord of the sign of depression or that of 
the planet's exaltation Rasi be in a Kendra position 
with respect to the Moon's place or the Lagna, the 
person born will be a King and a just ruler. 

A/bf?‚Äî According to some, means the planet 

that is exalted in that Rasi : 

I 



51. 27-30 


81 


?r¬ªq ^T g q-asqm ^^?T>|qT3rq?srtfk: ii^^ii 

Slok i 27 . ‚Äî When a planet is in depression, if the 
lord of that depression sign and the lord of the planet's 
exaltation sign are in Kendra positions mutually, the 
Yoga will produce a King who will become an 
emperor respected by all the other Kings. 

¬ªTTm%'^:iiRcir 

SJoka 28 ‚Äî When a planet is in depression, but is 
aspected by the lord of that Rasi, the Yoga will make 
the native a ruler of the earth and famous. And in the 
above Yoga if that depressed planet should be in an aus- 
picious house (that is in a house other than the 6th, 8th 
or 12th), where is the doubt about his becoming a 
foremost King ? 

^?5ri5T ^ 

%% %-sr'jatfqwq: 

jqqt q. i i -sMi 

Sloka 29. ‚Äî When a planet occupies his depression 
sign, if the lord of the Rasi so occupied or the lord cf 
the planet's exaltation Rasi be in a Kendra position 
with respect to the Lagna or the Moon, the person born 
will become an emperor endowed with full riches, will 
be virtuously disposed, respected by other Kings, 
mighty, famous and affluent. 

^xkw. qq qT I 

%?j[-^^5irq:qrfr gq: ^qi^qqTf^q: IIS'4I 

cfir q?qjqT:fq?:%qTqT qr^rftf^qTTqt qf I^qirqtqt 
qfq ^HnVsvqrq: 


qFT-f^‚Äî 11 






Adh. Vlll 


Sloka 30 . ‚Äî H a planet be in depression and if the 
lord of that depression sign as well as that of the 
planet's exaltation sign, or at least one of them be in a 
Kendra, the person born will become an emperor and 
will be saluted by other Kings. 

Note -i fere the words may also ])o rondere;! as "the 

‚Ä¢one in depr^^ssioii.‚Äù 

are live kimls of iiS follows:‚Äî^ 

(1) Tli(^ lo)‚Äôd of tilio d(^|)rGSRion or ibe planet is oxfxlt- 
' 0(1 in lliat sign is in a Kendra position from fclie Lagna or tlie Moon, 
(j) The lord of the dcpi'Cssion sign and tlie lord of t.he exaltation 
sign of th(3 depressed planet are mutnally in Kendia ix)^itions. 
‚Ä¢(d) The plamd/ in dejjression is aspected by the lord of that sign. 
(I) The loi'd of the depression sign or the loial of I he (exaltation 
sign of tlie de})rcsRed i)lanet is in iumdra from the l.agna or the 
Moon, (o) The planet in depression is in Kendra wil h respect to 
the liUgna or the ^^()o^. 

Thus ends the 7th Adhyaya on "'Maharaja Yogas" 
in the work Phaladeepika composed by Mantreswara. 


II II 

iTT^ fr5T?r5: firfir: i 

fiTt 

¬ªt%?t le.ii 

ADHYAYA VIII. 

Siokj Z. -If the Sun occupy the 1st house at a 
person's birth, he will have very little hair ; he will be 
most inactive to do any work ; he will be angry a.nd 
impetuous, and tall in stature. He will be proud, will 
‚ñÝhave soiled eyes and a lean body. He will be valiant, 
impatient and cruel-hearted. If the Lagna at birth be 



SI. 2-3 


iS: 


Cancer and the Sun occupy it, he will have a cataract 
in the eyes ; if it be Mesha, he will suffer from eye- 
disease. If the Sun be in Leo identical with the Lagna, 
the person concerned will be night- blind. If Libra be 
the Lagna and the Sun occupy it, he will suffer from 
poverty and loss of children. 

vr^r^gTR' ii>.ii 

Sloka ;?. ‚Äî When the Sun is in the 2nd house in a 
person's birth, he will be devoid of learning, modesty 
and riches and will be stammering. If the Sun should 
occupy the 3rd house, the person concerned will be 
strong, brave, wealthy and liberal, but inimical towards 
his relations. If the Sun be in the 4th house, the person 
born will have no happiness, no relations, no lands, 
no friends and no house. He will serve 'the State and 
spend away his paternal property. 

fiT'aflrn-: 11-11 

S/ok ,3 3. ‚Äî If the Sun should occupy the 5th house 
from the Lagna, the person born will Vje bereft of happi- 
ness, riches and children and his life will be short. 
He will be intelligent and will travel over forest 
regions. If the Sun be in the 6th house, the person 
born will become a King, famous, of good qualities, 
wealthy and victorious. If the Sun occupy the 7th 
house at a birth, the person concerned will incur the. 
displeasure of the sovereign, and will be deformed; 



Adh. VIII 

he will be wandering, without a wife and suffer 
humiliation. If the Sun should be in the 8th house, the 
person born will lose his wealth, and friends ; he will 
not be long-lived and will have defective eye-sight 
or be blind. 

5?rT¬ªT^ iivjii 

Sloka 4 . ‚Äî If at the time of birth, the Sun should 
occupy the 9th house, the person concerned will lose 
his father; he will have children and relations and will 
revere Gods and Brahmins. If he occupies the lOth^ 
house, the person will have sons, vehicles, laudation, 
intelligence, wealth, strength and fame. He will be a 
King. The Sun in the 11th house will make the person 
born very wealthy and long-lived. He will be a King 
and vdll have no sorrow. If the Sun be in the 12th 
house, the person born will hate his father. His eye- 
sight will be defective and he will be without wealth 
and children. 

^ 

Sloka 5 . If at a person's birth, the Moon be waxing 
and happens to be in the first house, the person con- 
cerned will possess a strong constitution and a long 
lease of life. He will be free from fear, very powerful 
and wealthy. But if the Moon be waning, the effects 
stated above will be quite the reverse. If the Moon 



SI. 6-7 


85 




should occupy the 2nd house, the person born will be 
rich, very learned or soft-tongued ; he will be a 
sensualist but defective of some limb. If the Moon 
be in the 3rd house, the person born will have 
brothers, will be lascivious, strong and powerful but 
very miserly. 

^rr¬ªT^ i 

\\\\\ 

Sloka 6 . ‚Äî ^If at a birth the Moon be in the 4th house, 
the person concerned will be happy and indulging in 
sensual pleasures. He will be liberal in gifts, will have 
friends, vehicles and become renowned. If the Moon 
should occupy the 5th house, the person born will 
have good sons, will be very intelligent, will walk 
gently and will become a minister. If the Moon be in 
the 6th house, the person born will be short-lived, 
ignorant, will suffer from stomach-ache, etc., he 
will also suffer humiliation. If the Moon should 
occupy the 7th house, the person born will be agreea- 
ble to look at, will be loved by a beautiful damsel, and 
will be exceedingly lovely. 

llvill 

, Slokci 7. ‚Äî The person at whose birth the Moon is in 
the 8th house will suffer from diseases and will be 
short-lived. If the Moon should occupy the 9th house 
at a birth, the person concerned will be prosperous, 



Adh. Vnr 

virtuous and blessed with children. He will be 
victorious, and all his undertakings will be crowned 
with success at the beginning itself. If' the Moori 
should occupy the lOth house at a birth, the person 
concerned will do good acts and will be helpful to the 
virtuous. If the Moon be in the 11th house, the person 
born will be high-minded, long-lived, and endowed 
with riches, children and servants. If the Moon be in 
the 12th house at a birth, the person concerned will 
be odious to others ; he will suffer misery, will be 
insulted and will be most indolent 

Sioka 8 , -If Mars occupy the Lagna at a person's birth, 
he will have an injured limb ; he will be short-lived 
and Will be very cruel and adventurous. If Mars be in 
the 2nd house, the person concerned will be adverse 
or ugly-faced, devoid oi learning and wealth and will 
be dependent on bad people. If Mars occupy the 3rd 
house, the person born will be of good qualities, pos- 
sess wealth, will be brave, unassailable, happy anci 
will have no brothers. If at a birth Mars should occupy 
the 4th house, the person concerned will be without 
friends, mother, lands, happiness house and vehicles. 

fiTgjlsr?TST^S^S!faT=T: f7g5rt::5'T?ft: 

srg-^srr^sr: i 

3r5Tw(?^rr: ii^ii 

Sloka 9.‚Äú -If at a birth be in the 5th house, the 





SI. 10-11 , 


67 


person concerned will be^unhappy, without children, 
lull of reverses, back-biting and weak-minded. If Mars 
occupy the 6th house, the person born will be ex- 
ceedingly smitten with love, wealthy, and famous : he 
will be a King and victorious (in battle). Mars in the 
7th house makes the person born do improper acts, 
suffer affliction through disease, wander in the roads 
and lose his wife. If Mars be in the 8th house, the 
person born will have a deformed body, will be poor, 
short-lived and cursed by the people. 

Sloka iO. --If Mars occupy the 9th house at a pei- 
son's birth; the native will, though a friend of the sove- 
reign, be hated by others ; he will be fatherless and 
will commit homicide. Mars in the 10th house 
makes the person born a King cruel, liberal and prais- 
ed by important people. If at a birth Mars should be 
in the 11th house, the person concerned will be 
endowed with riches and happiness. He will be brave, 
will have no sorrow and possessed of good characte::. 
When Mars occupies the 12th house at a birth, the 
person concerned will have deformed eyes ; he v/ili be 
cruel, and without a wif3. He will baa slanderer arni 
a mean wretch. 

5^5:: ^rmf: ?T!sTm 

TT^flr^?^T3rsri?qT4-4Tt*fT ii ii 

SIok:i IL ‚Äî If at a person's birth Mercury occupy thr* 
Lagna, he will be long-lived, speaking^ Sweetly and 



83 Adh. VHt 


cleverly. He will be sharp-witted, and learned in all 
Sastras. If Mercury be in the 2nd house, the person 
born will acquire wealth by his own talents, will be 
a poet, sincere and attractive in his specah, and will 
eat sumptuous food. If Mercury should occupy the 3rd 
house at a birth, the persoh concerned will be brave, 
of medium life, and have good brothers ; he will 
suffer fatigue and be dejected. Mercury occupying 
the 4th house at a birth makes the person concerned 
learned, witty in speach happy and possessed of 
friends, lands, corn, wealth and enjoyment. 

iilkii 

Sloka 12 , ‚Äî If Mercury be in the 5th house at a birth, 
the person concerned, will be learned, happy and 
courageous. He will have a good number of children 
and will be conversant with charms or spells. Mercury 
in the 6th house makes the person born angry through 
disputes, harsh in speach and idle. The native will 
destroy the power of his enemies. When Mercury occu- 
pies the 7th house, the person born will be learned ; he 
will dress himself beautifully, will have all the great- 
ness, and will have a rich lady as his wife. If Mercury 
should be posited in the 8th house at a birth, the 
person concerned will be widely renowned, and long- 
lived ; he will be the supporter of his family, a 
lord and a commander of the army. 

?TTf^ f kT 



SI. 14-15 


8 {^ 


Shko 2 . 5 .-‚Äî If at a birth Mercury should occupy the 
9^1 house from the Lagiia, the person concerned will 
have learning and wealth ; he will be of good conduct ; 
he will be religious-minded, conversant with every- 
thing, and very ^eloquent in speech. If Mercury be in 
the 10th house, the person born will be successful 
in whatever he undertakes, will have good learning, 
strength, intelligence, and happiness. Ha will do 
good acts and be truthful. Mercury in the 11th 
house makes the person born long-lived, truthful, very 
rich, happy and possessed of servants. Jf Mercury 
be in the 12th house, the person born will be 
miserable, devoid of learning, suffer humiliation, will 
be cruel and inactive. 

sr?ftrr4^3r: 5Tt4S4^^vfir- 

Illy II 

Sloka 24. ‚ÄîIf at a birth Jupiter should be posited in 
the Lagna, the person concerned will be handsome, for- 
tunate, long-lived, fearless, and blessed with children. 
If Jupiter occupy the 2nd house, the person born will 
be eloquent, and a good connoisseur in food. He will 
have a lovely face, will be wealthy and learned. If 
Jupiter be in the 3rd house at a birth, the person 
concerned will be treated with disrespect, will be 
miserly, will have a renowned brother, will commit 
sins, and will be wickedly-disposed. When Jupiter 
occupies the 4th house, the person born will live with 
his mother, friends, attendants, sons, wife, corn, etc. 
and be happy. 

3%: -epTmiT ^4^4 



^0 Adh. Vlll 

Slot-;! 15 . ‚Äî Jupiter in the 5th house ^t a birth makes 
the native suffer distress through sons. The person 
will be intelligent and will be a king's adviser. If 
Jupiter should occupy the 6th house at a birth, the 
person concerned will be very inactive, suffer dis- 
respect, destroy his enemies, and clever in charms and 
exorcising. If Jupiter be in the 7th house, the person 
born will possess a good wife and sons. He will be 
very amiable, and more munificent than his father. If 
Jupiter be posited in the 8th house, the person born 
will be poor and earn his livelihood as a menial ; he 
will be sinful but long-lived. 

3TT<T^'^ ^f^^5¬•r?rt^5qrrjpft q‚ÄôRift 

ra?TJrq': 

Sloka JG. ‚Äî If Jupiter occupy the 9th house at a per- 
son's birth, he will become a famous minister, will be 
endowed with wealth and children and will be anxious 
to do virtuous acts. If Jupiter should be in the 10th 
house, the person born will follow the right course of 
conduct, will be renowned for his virtues, will become 
very rich and a friend of the king. When Jupiter is 
posited in the 11th house, the person born will be 
wealthy, fearless, will have a few children, will be long- 
and will be going in vehicles. If Jupiter be in the 
12th house, the person coicerned will be hated by 
others, will be foul-mouthed, will have no children, 
will be sinful, idle and a menial. 



91 


SI- 1"-10 9TS4lts;¬´n?T: 

fTwirfiT^ fir^ 

ii^vsii 

Sloka 17 . ‚Äî If Venus should occupy the Lagna at a 
person's birth, he will hasre a healthy and beautiful 
body; he will be happy and endowed with long life. 
When Venus 9 ccupies the 2nd house, the person born, 
will become a poet and endowed with riches of 
various kinds. Venus in the 3rd house at birth makes 
the native wifeless, unhappy, poor, miserly and un- 
popular. If Venus should be in the 4th house at a 
birth, the native will have good vehicles, good house 
jewels, clothes, scents, etc. 

3T?irfwi^?rVT^ ^<T 5JTf^JTIrIT% ^TlrffST 

‚ÄôJVTPTir^fiTTIrf JT^ 

^TT=TnrfiT?7Tf^q' ^if^vTrT: Il'Cll 

^ ‚Ä¢ 

Sloka 18. ‚Äî li Venus be in the 5th house at a birth,, 
the person concerned will be the owner of immense 
wealth, will protect others, will be very wise and bless- 
ed with children. When Venus occupies the 6th 
house, the person born will have no enemies, no riches, 
will be corrupted by young females and affected by 
grief. If Venus should be posited in the 7th house at a 
birth, the person concerned will have a good wife but 
will have intrigues with bad women. He will lose a wife 
and willbe wealthy. Venus in the 8th house makes 
the native long-lived, rich, and a ruler of the earth. 



. Adh. VI II 

Shkij 19 . ‚Äî If Venus occupy the 9th house at a birth, 
the person concerned v/ill be blessed with a wife, 
friends and children, and will become prosperous 
through royal favor. If Venus should be in the 10th 
hoiise/ihe per:jOU born will become widely renowned, 
will have friends, and will be a lord happily employed. 
Venus in the 11th liouse makes the person born rich, 
fond of the company of other females and endowed 
with many comforts. When Venus occupies the 12th 
house, the person born will have sexiial enjoyment, 
wealth and splendour. 

p;?rrs^;^ ‚Äòfl-'rfrr i 

n:?r 

!^Tfeii;^gr5Tm ir<oii 

UIok:: 20. ‚Äî li at a birth Saturn occupies his exalta- 
tion or own house identical with the Lagna, the person 
Concerned will be on a par with the king, a chief or 
mayor of a city. If Saturn should be rising in any other 
Ra^i, the person born will be afflicted with sorrow and 
misery from his very childhood and will suffer from 
indigence. He will be slovenly and indolent. 

Sloka 21 , ‚Äî If Saturn should occupy the 2nd house 
at a person's birth, he will have an ugly face ; he will 
be without wealth, and following evil courses. At a 
later age he will live in a foreign country endowed with 
vehicles, wealth and other enjoyments. When Saturn 
is posited in the 3rd house at a birth, the person 
concerned will be very intelligent, liberal in gifts and 
happy with his wife. He will however be inactive 
and overcome with sorrow. 



SI. 22-2-} 

^ri^JTitirirf cTT 

^flrorrff^ Kjf m jri^ft R'ft 

^TiT¬´^ ?:firlT fjTRmsi^m rci|5?: ii<<ii 

Shka 22* ‚ÄîIf at a birth Saturn should occupy the 4th 
house, the person concerned will be unhappy, house- 
less, without vehicles, deprived of his mother and^ 
sickly during his early years. If Saturn should be 
posited in the 5th house, the person born will be 
loaming about, will have lost his reason, will be 
bereft of children, wealth and happiness, will be 
perfidious and evil-minded, When Saturn occupies the 
6th house, the person born will be a voracious eater, 
will be wealthy, subdued by his enemies, will be 
stubborn and possessed of self-respect. Saturn in the 
7th house will cause the native to be wedded to a bad 
wife, to be poor, roaming and be distressed. 

Shkci 23 . ‚Äî The person at whose biith Saturn is in 
ihe 8th house will be unclean and without wealth. He 
will suffer from piles, will be cruel-minded, will be 
pinched with hunger and will be despised by 
his friends. 

JT!=Wr ^rr ^q-Frrvj^r irfe:^T:‚ÄôT=T't I 

^{Tr firaifi 

R'jrRrRrr: ir<yii 

Sloka 24 . ‚Äî The person at whose birth Saturn is‚Äù in 
the 9th house will be bereft of fortune, wealth children, 
lather and religious merit. He will be wicked. If 



94. q^5!^^?TT- Adh. vills 

Saturn should occupy the 10th house, the person born 
will be a king or his minister, will devote himself 
to agriculture, will be brave, rich and renowned. The 
person vyho has Saturn in the 11th house in his 
nativity will have a long span of life, lasting wealth 
and good income, will be br&ve, free from disease and 
moneyed. Saturn in the 12th house makes the native 
impudent, indigent, without children, defective of 
some limb, stupid and driven out by his enemies. 

lie'll! 

Shka 25. ‚Äî If at a birth Rahu occupy the Lagna, the 
person concerned will have a short life, possess wealth 
and strength, and will suffer from diseases in the higher 
limbs of his body (head, face, etc). The person who 
has at his birth Rahu in the 2nd house will be dubious 
or insincere in his speach, will suffer from disease in 
the mouth or face, will be tender-hearted, will get 
wealth through his sovereign, will be wrathful and 
happy. Rahu in the 3rd house makes the person born 
proud, hostile to his brothers, strong-willed, long- 
lived and wealthy. If Rahu should occupy the 4th 
house, the person born will be a fool, will cause sorrow, 
will have friends, will be short-lived and happy at 
some time or other. 

Sloka 26. ‚Äî If at a person's birth Rahu should be 
posited in the 5th house, he will talk through the nose. 



95 


SI- 27-28 

* ‚Ä¢ 

will be childless, will be hard-hearted and suffer from 
belly-ache. If Rahu be in the 6th house, the person 
born will be troubled by his enemies, or oppressed by 
malefic planets (demons). He will sufter from a 
disease in the anus. He will be wealthy and long- 
lived. When Rahu occupies the 7th house, the person 
concerned will lose his wealth through intrigues with 
women, suffer separation from his beloved, lose his 
manhood, become self-willed and silly. If Rahu 
occupy the 6th house, the person born will be short- 
lived, will do impure acts, will be defective of a limb, 
will suffer from wind-disease and will have limited 
issue. 

SJoka 27. ‚Äî If Rahu happens to be in the 9th house 
at a birth, the person concerned will speak opposingly. 
He will be the head of his clan, the headman of a 
village or mayor of a city and will commit unrighteous 
deeds. Rahu in the 10th house makes the native 
famous; the man will have a limited number of issue, 
will engage himself in other's business, will not do any 
good act and will be fearless. If Rahu be in the 11th 
house; the person born will be prosperous, will not have 
many children, will be long-lived and will suffer from 
ear disease. If Rahu should occupy the 12th house, the 
person concerned will be intent on committing sinful 
acts secretly, will spend much and Vill suffer from a 
water-disease 



Adh. VI I r 


^6 

¬´ 

Sloka 28. ‚Äî The person at whose birth Ketu occupies 
the Lagna will be ungrateful, unhappv and bearing tales 
against others. He will be an outcast, gallon from his 
position, will have a deformed body and associating 
with the- wicked. Ketu in the 2iid house makes the 
native devoid of learning and riches. His speach will 
be very vile in quality, and he .will have a sinister 
look. He will ever be eating at other's tables. 

‚Ä¢3Ti=!rlr?T yr?rT5T:!TJTTr^*fi^^ i 

Sloka .?9.--‚ÄúKetu in the 3rd house confers on the 
native long life, strength, wealth and farn.e. The person 
will live happily with his wife and eat good food. He 
will lose a brother. If Ketu be in the 4th house, the 
person concerned will lose hi.s lands, vehicles, mother 
and happiness. He will leave bis native country and 
dwell in a foreign place and live at the bounty of 
another. 

^'V%JTr*iTrflr =gr ti‚Äôt: i 

^h‚ÄôT‚ÄôTgTTJTgof ii 

Sloka 30.‚Äî Ketu in the 5th house at a person's 
birth will cause loss of children, disease in the stomach# 
and trouble from goblins. The native will become 
evil-minded and wicked. IE Ketu should occupy the 
6th house at a birth, the person concerned will be very 
magnanimous and possess the best qualities. He will 
attain everlasting fame, firmness and high authority, 
destroy his enemies and realise his wishes. 

. Sioka 31. Th¬© p¬©rson at whos¬© birth Ketu is posited 
in the 7th house will suffer disrespeot, seek the 





97 


Sh 


company of bad women, will be afflicted by a disease 
relating to the bowels and will suffer loss of wife and 
vital power. If Ketu be in the 8th house, the person 
born will be short-lived, will suffer the separation of 
his dear friends and engage in quarrels, will meet with 
injury from a weapon and disappointment in all his 
undertakings. 

SIo>:a 32 ,‚Äî If Ketu should occupy the 9th house at 
a person's birth, he will follow a sinful course, will 
do unrighteous things and be deprived of his father, 
will be unlucky, indigent and will slander the good. 
When Ketu occupies the 10th house, the person born 
will experience obstacles to the performance of good 
acts, will be impure, and will be engaged in doing vile 
acts. He will be energetic, bold and widely renowned. 

iro^gr7f'Ttr^rr5^‚Äô!TtT'4'flri^ =gr 7 (?t: ii 

Sloka 33.'‚Äî li Ket ,i bo posited in the 11th house at a 
birth, the person concerned will hoard money, will 
have many good qualities, will enjoy himself well, will 
command all the facilities for gotting good materials 
and will be successful in obtaining all his require 
ments. If Ketu occupy tho 12th house, the person born 
will secretly commit sinful acts, spend money on vile 
things, will destroy wealth, will be of forbidden con- 
duct, and will suffer from eye-diseases. 

fTBrerETTf: ir3Tgr?%g: ir^y i 

Sloka 34 ‚Äî A planet produces the full effact of the 
Bheva in which it ie when its distance (in Navamsas, 

13 



^8 Adh. IX 


degree etc,) from the commencement of the Rasi occu- 
pied is equal to that traversed by the Lagna-point in the 
Lagna Rasi. It is declared by the authorities that Rahu 
is simlar to Saturn and Ketu to Mars in giving effects. 

rl^ JTs>s'5n:l^?:R?TF!ir ^s^rr^srt 

STTT^nTRI^rw^ iTilT 

Shka 35 . ‚Äî Planets produce the full effects of the 
Bhavas respectively occupied by them when they are 
exactly posited in the (Bhavamsa = Semi-bhava = in the 
middle or centre of the Bhava). If they should occupy 
a position les.s or greater than the semi-bhava, the 
effects are declared to be correspondingly increasing 
or decreasing as the case may be. 

Thus ends the 8th Adhyaya on 'The effects of the (Sun 
and other planets in the 12 Bhavas frem the Lagna 
onwards " in the work Phaladeepika composed 
by Mantreswara. 


II II 

¬´3¬´FTifr i 
STiTrcT: II ^11 

ADHYAYA IX. 

Bhk .1 I ‚Äî The person at whose birth the sign Mesha 
is the Lagna will have round eyes, will be weak-kneed, 
iierce, afraid of water, will eat sparingly, will long for 
women, w;ill always be on his legs, will be fickle, 
will speak falsehoods and will have bruised limbs. 



SI. 2-5 *r^<hsi!?iwrs 9^ 

sm^fsRsr i 

9n*ft ^ffir #^^5:sr f^^ssr; irh 

Sloka 2,‚Äî If at the birth of a person, the sign 
Viishabha be rising, he will have plumpy thighs and a 
big face ; he will be engaged in agriculture. He will be 
happy in the middle and concluding portions oi his 
life. He will be fond of young women, will be liberal 
in gifts, will be of a forgiving disposition, will endure 
hardships, possess cattle, etc., and will have marks 
or moles on the back, face and sides. 

^ ii^ii 

Sloka 2. ---'When the Ascendant is Mithuna, the 
person born will possess black eyes, will have curled 
hairs, will be intent on sporting with women, will be 
skilled in interpreting others' thoughts, will have an 
elevated nose, will have a liking for music and danc- 
ing, and will always be home-keeping. 

53rt^Tirr: i 

^8f ^5^1 ^<T¬ªr: ll¬´ll 

Sloka 4 ‚Äî The person at whose'birth Karkataka is 
the Lagna will be henpecked, have a lleshy neck, will 
be surrounded by friends and possess many houses. He 
will have elevated buttocks, will be rich, short in 
stature, crooked in his views, fast in walking, intelli 
gent, fond of water and possess very few sons. 

iihii 

Sloka 5 , ‚Äî If a person be born when the Ascedant is 
Simha, he will have reddish e;ye¬´, large chin, and a 



100 




Adh. IX 


broad face .* he will be arrogant and powerful. He will 
be angry at trifles ; he would like to go to forests and 
hills, will be obedient to his mother and firm-minded. 

i 

\\\\\ 

S:oka 6.‚Äî If a person be born when Sign Kanya is 
rising, his shoulders and arms will'be drooping ; he 
becomes respectable through others' houses and 
wealth. He is truthful and will speak kindly. His look 
is faint due to modesty. He is fond of sexual enjoy- 
ment. He knows the interpretation of Sastras and will 
have a very limited number of children. 




Sloka /.‚Äú The person at whose birth the Lagna is 
Tula has a lean and freil body, will have a limited 
number of children, will be intent on worshipping Gods 
and Brahmins, will be wandering, will have two names, 
will be tall in stature, will be clever in trading,^brave, 
merciless and impartial in his argument. 

^ !I‚Äô5fTra^: I 

Sloko S.‚ÄîIi a person be born when sign Vrischika 
is rising, he will have round thighs and knees, broad 
and expansive eyes. and chest, suffer from diseases 
at a very early age and will be separated from his 
parents and pioceptors. He will do cruel acts, will be 
bonourad by his sovereign and his hands and feet will 
possess nrarks of lotus, t Pad marekha). 



‚ñÝSI. 9-11 


302 




sn¬ªT5¬•q:5w^*T2?ftsftffm m\ 

Slok'a 9.-^If the Lagna be Dhanus at a person's birth, 
he will have a very long face and neck ; his ears and 
and nose will be big; he will be intent on his business ; 
he will be dwarfish in stature ; he will be the favourite 
of the King ; he will be eloquent ; he will be 
liberal in his gifts and will destroy his enemies. , He 
can be won over only by kind treatment and will be 
endowed with great strength. 

Sloka 10,‚Äî The following will be the character- 
istics of a person who is born when Makara is rising. 
He will be weak in the lower limbs ; he will have 
exceeding strength or courage ; he will carry out the 
task he has undertaken ; he will be indolent ; he will 
be attached to old women of the prohibited class. He 
will be a religious hypocrite. He will be fortunate ; 
he will be always on his legs ; he will suffer from 
wind-disease and he will be devoid of all shame. 

TOsIf ^?nf?si?TsrF¬´r5w: ii^^n 

Shka 22.‚Äî The person at whose birth sign Aquarius 
is rising will secretly commit sinful deeds, will have a 
body similar to a water-pot ; will be clever in hitting 
or killing others; will endure long marches on 
roads. His means will be very limited. He will be 
covetous and freely utilise others' wealth and will have 
pecuniary losses and gains, and will be found of 
perfumes and flowers. 



102- Adh. IX 


Shka 12, ‚Äî If at a birth sign Meenabethe Lagna, the 
person born will drink water, excessively, will have a 
symmetrical and shining body, will be fond of his wife, 
will gain money by selling pearls and other produce 
of the ocean. He will be learned, feel grateful for past 
favours done to him,‚Äò;will overcome his enemies, pos- 
sess very good eyes and will be fortunate, 

Shka 13. ‚Äî After examining the nature, place, form, 
color, etc., of any particular Rasi. one ought to intelli 
gently guess the effects thereof. Whatever have been 
declared as the effects arrising out of a particular Rasi 
being the Lagna, the same should also be said to come 
to pass* if the sign happens to be occu pied by the Moon. 

^Ti‚Äô:5¬Ær^3¬´rr 5!T¬ªjr 

!T% JKVJll 

S/oa: ? 24^. -4f at a birth a planet be in its exaltation, 
the person bom will be the ruler of the earth, 
will receive praises from Kings, will be the abode of 
valuable treasures, will be endowed with excellent 
virtues; he will shine like King Vikramarka in all 
his policy, fame, valour, liberality, courage and 
cleverness* 

ir^ jrg<ifr*rfiqrT¬´riH 
WT mgsqrni^ i 



‚Ä¢SI. 16-18 


103 


‚ô¶ - 

‚Äò - 

sm ¬´r^?rg<5TT%%3%f^ ^5!r 
ir% wv^w 

Sloka 75.‚Äî If a planet should occupy his own sigh 
in a nativity, the person concerned will during the 
Dasa period of the said planet attain power and strength 
through the help of a wealthy personage or may him- 
self become a lord, will stick up to his residence with- 
out moving anywhere, will acquire a new house as 
well as lands capable of yielding every kind of crop 
and will be honoured by his people. He may get back 
even lost articles. 

Sfoka 16. ‚Äî The effect of a planet occupying a 
friends' house in a nativity will be to make the owner 
thereof gain success through his friends in all his 
attempts, cultivate new friendships, possess good sons, 
wife, wealth, corn and other fortunes and receive help 
from all people. 

Sloka 27. ‚Äî If a planet should occupy an inimical 
sign, the person concerned will have a base disposition 
of mind. He will live 'in others' houses eating 
their food. He will be utterly destitute and will be 
always teased by enemies. Even a person who was 
originally his friend will prove inimical to him in the 
Dasa of such a planet. 

. <TH5r i 

Slokj IS. ‚Äî If a planet be in depression, the native 



I¬©* Adh. IX- 

concerned will, during the planet's Dasa period, have a 
degradation from his position, will suffer humiliation, 
vrill do sinful deeds, will contract debts, will seek help 
from low people, dwell in insanitary surroundings, will 
do meniel work, will walk long distances and commit 
-useless acts. 

fftsT srr 5;# m 11 ^^11 

Sloka i9.‚Äî If a planet be eclipsed by the Sun's rays, 
the person born will, (during the said planet's Dasa 
period) meet with his end within a short time. His 
wife, children as well as his wealth will also be destroy- 
ed. He will unnecessarily be drawn into quarrels, will 
incur the odium of others and also suffer humliation, 
A planet posited in a neutral's sign does not urge any 
marked effect, but will only leave the hapinesS or 
misery unaffected. 

HSR ir?r: %?: 1 

^n‚Äòmrrmr^¬´i?r%=5r5rtsPt ¬ªRo 1 1 

^TTIT 

Sloka 20,‚Äî When a planet is retrograde in his motion, 
he will produce effects similar to those that arise from 
his occupying his exalatation sign, should be even 
though the planet is posited in an inimical or depres- 
sion sign. The effects produced by a planet situated 
in his Swakshetra-own house-should be ascribed to 
him similarly when he happans to occupy a Vargotta- 
mamsa. 

Thus ends the 9th Adhyaya on " Effect of Mesha and 
other signs happening to be the Ligna" in the work, 

Phaladeepika composed by Manireswara. 





105 


SI. 12 


li II 

g:vnf¬´rT5^%% 5y?i?fl[ 

?T^: ^ f?g?TT<!IT 5r I 

^^?T^%?r5?r tt 3nmgvi: ii^ii 

ADHYAYA X. 

Sioka i.‚Äî ' If the 5th and the 7th house reckoned 
either from the Lagna or the Moon be occupied or as- 
pected by the lord of the 9th house, or by benefics or 
their own lords, then there is good for the two Bhavas ; 
otherwise not; /.e., the Bhavas will not bear fruiL 
If malefic planets are posited (1) in the 12th, 4th and 
8th houses counted from Venus or if Venus be 
hemmed in between two malefics, or if Venus be 
aspected by or conjoined with malefics, there is loss 
of wife. 

sgrTTl- srnr^^trfVsijwrssir^ii vfr5‚Äú5rcr 
^5i?vr ^rrJjr q'mf 

iRii 

S^obj 2 . ‚Äî If the lord of the 7th house be in the 5tli, 
the native will lose his wife or become sonless. The 
loss of the wife is certain, if the lord of the 5th or the 
8th house happens to be in the 7th. If the weak Moon 
be in the 5th and malefics should occupy the 12th, 7th 
and the 1st houses, the person will be bereft of wife 
and children. If the Sun and Rahu be in the 7th house, 
one ought to predict loss of wealth through the associa- 
tion of women. 

14 



106 


Adh- X 


?r'4T i 

^ ?Tm w^5?T?rT 

^^'r ^ft^rirr li^ll 

Sloko 3 . ‚Äî When Venus oceupies Vris'chiha identi- 
cal with the 7th house, the wife cf the person born will 
die. The same will be the effect when Mercury is in 
Vrishabha identical with the 7tli house or. when Jupiter 
occupies the 7th and is in depression, or when Saturn 
or Mars is posited in Meena identical with the 7th 
house If Saturn and Mars are in the 7111 house identi- 
cal with Karkataka, the wife of the person concerned 
will be chaste, fortunate and beautiful. 

^'TT^ 

. irjTJTf^grTT‚ÄôETf?^ m\ 

Sloka 4.~l{ the 7th house or its lord be associated 
with, aspected by or posited betwixt malefics or be in 
' depression or inimical sign, or eclipsed by the Sun's 
rays, loss of wife is certain. Venus in conjunction with 
a malefic occupying the 7th, 5th or 9th house will make 
the native bereft of wife or have a crippled wife. When 
Venus is in a (Varga) of Mars or Saturn or has the 
aspect of these planers, the person born will have 
liaison with other people's wives. 

sri 

jrarq-^^m 3n?iT3r?T 
jfrtv^TT \\'^\\ 



SI. 15-lS 




]07 


Shko 5. If Venus and the Moon are in opposition to 
Mars and Saturn in any nativity^ the person concern- 
ed will be either wifeless or issueless ; when there is 
a hermaphrodite planet in the 7th house and the 11th 
house is occupied by two lelanets, the person v/ill have 
two wives. If the lord th^ 7th house and Venus be 
each posited in a dual Rasi or Ain.sa, the person will 
have two wives. Generally one ought to predict the 
number of wives in such cases b/ the number of the 
planets in conjunction with these two. vi-:., the lord of 
the 7th and Venus. 


I 

3Trr: 

ffr^T ll^Jl 

Sloka 6.‚Äî dt is through the (number of) planets in 
the 7th house that one ought to divine the number of 
women that a person may associate with. Of these the 
number that will die (at an early age) will correspond 
to the number (of planet.s in the 7th house) that are 
malefic, while the number of benefics will denote the 
number that will survive. If the lord of the 7th be 
benefic and possessed of strength, the native will have 
a good-natured woman as his partner and be endowed 
with good children. Even a malefic will do good to the 
wife, if he should be in the 7th owning that house. 
Benefics in the 7th will be productive of good unless 
they happen to be the lords of the 6th, 8th and 12th 
houses. 

q:# <Trf?n eir^ 



108 




Adh. X 


Sloka 7.‚Äî When the 2nd and 7th houses are either 
occupied or aspected by inalefics there will be loss of 
wife ; and the effect will invariably be untoward in the 
case of malefic aspects. Similar predictions (about 
husbands) may be made from the wife's nativity when 
the 7th and 8tli houses are likewise afflicted. But if 
the concerned two houses be aspected or occupied by 
benefics, the couple will be lucky and enjoy all 
comfoits. 

it: I 

d, ‚Äî When the Moon along with Saturn occu- 
pies the 7th house in a woman's nativity, the woman 
concerned will be remaried and in the case of a male, 
he will be either wifeless or childless. If malefics in 
their depression or inimical house be posited in the 
7th, the 8th or the 2nd, the demise of the wife or the 
husband should be predicted as the case may be. 

67oia 5. -When the 7tli house is an even sign and 
if the lord of that house and Venus be also similarly 
situated (that is, in an even sign) and if the lords of the 
5th and 7th houses posessing strength are not over- 
powered by the Sun's rays, the person concerned 
will certainly be blessed with wife and children. 

II? oil 

Sloka /O.‚Äî If the planets owning the 2nd, the _7th 
and the 12th houses be aspected by Jupiter and occupy 
‚Ä¢ Trikona or Kendra positions, or if benefics be posited 
in the 2nd, the 7th and the 11th houses reckoned from 
the planet owning the*7th house, the wife of the native 



SI. 11-14 loy 

will command all happiness and be endowed with 
children. 

cr%xr huh 

Shka 11 , ‚Äî Find the Rasi and Navamsa occupied by 
the lords of the 1st and the 7th houses in a person's 
nativity. The Janma Rasi of the wife will be a sign 
triangular to the aforesaid Rasi or Navamsa. or it may 
be the exaltation or depression Rasi of the lords of the 
1st and the 7th; or it will be that Rasi which contains 
the largest number of benefic dots in the Moon's 
Ashtakavarga table of the husband. 

srr fT^JTr^ivrw^Br^toriTWTf^ ii un 

SJoka 12 -The direction of the country of the wife will 
be that signified by the Rasi owned by the strongest 
of the three planets, viz, (1) occupying 7th house (2) 
owning the 7th house and (3) Venus : The marriage 
may be expected to come off when Venus cr the lord of 
the 7th house in his* orbit passes through a sign 
which is triangular to the Rasi or Navamsa occupied by 
the Lord of the Lagna. 

Sloka 13 . ‚Äî The acquisition of a‚Äòfwife may happen 
during the Dasa period of the planet (1) posited in the 
7th house, (2) aspecting the 7th house or (3) owning 
the 7th house. The same mayi'also happen, when the 
lord of the Lagna in his orbit comes to the Rasi re- 
presenting the 7th house. 



3 lo Adh. X 


Sloka 14 . ‚Äî Find which of the two in the following 
two pairs is stronger : (1) the lords of the Pwasi and 
Navamsa occupied by the lord of the 7th house; (2) 
Venus and the Moon. During the Dasa-period of that 
planet when Jupiter passes through a sign triangular 
to the Rasi or Navamsa occupied by the lord of the 
7th^ the marraige may be declared to take place. 

g‚Äô^cr: nv^.n 

q=r5r^frr^i?Tr 

JTfJT 

Sloka. ‚Äî 15 If the lord of the 71h house occupies an 
inimical or depression sign, or be eclipsed or be 
aspected by maletics and if the 7th house be associated 
with or aspected by malefics, there wili be loss of wife; 
so say the wise, 

Thus ends the 10th Adiiyaya on " the Kalatra- 
Bhava or the 7th house'' in the work Phala- 
deepika composed by Mantreswara. 

II II 


^"T¬´irT ?ir 

^rrisr < 

¬´rrrH sercftr# 

‚Ç¨rfcr^ 5T¬´rsrTi^f5i^¬´f^T: 

ADHYAYA XI. 

Si'oka 1. ‚Äî Whatever effects are declared for ‚Äômen'e 
horoscopes are entirely applicable to women too, 
or to their husband. Her'prosperity and happiness 



SI. 2-3 


111 




have to be deduced from the 8th place (from the 
Lagna or the Moon whichever is stronger). Children 
should be declared through the 9th house and matters 
relating to her appearance beauty etc, should be 
deter-mined from the Lagna. It is from the 7th place 
that her welfare (power of influencing her husband) 
and the (nature of the) husband should be ascertained 
while her association and chastity should be predicted 
from an examination of the 4th house. Benefics i.n 
these houses produce good results while malefics in 
theses in the above houses are productive of evil 
unless they happen to own the houses, in which case 
the effect will be good. 

ir<ii 

Sloka 2, ‚Äî If both the Ascendant and the Moon are 
in even signs and be a?pect3d by benefic planets, the 
woman born will bear good sons, possess an excellent 
husband and be well-ornamented. She will be very 
prosperous and possess excellent qualities. If the 
Lagna and the Moon are in odd signs and be aspected 
by or associated with malefic planets, she will be 
masculine in her bearing, insincere, ungovernable to 
her husband ; and cruel beyond measure, and poor. 

Sloka 3. ‚Äî If the 7th house or setting Navamsa be a 
sign o wned by a benefic, the liusband of the woman 



112 


Adh. xr 


will be bright in appearance, famous, learned and 
wealthy. If it be otherwise, he will be deformed, and 
stupid or be a gambler for deceitful) and will have lost 
all his wealth, and the couple will not live together. 
If the Rasi and Amsa of the 7th house belong to Mars 
or if Mars occupies it (the 7th), the female born will, 
become a widow ; if the planets in the 7th house be of 
a mixed sort, she will be remarried. If the 8th house 
be occupied by malefics, she will cause the destruction 
of her husband. If benefics should occppy the 2nd 
house she would herself die. 

^ ?TT iiyu 

Sloka When the Moon is in Scorpio, Virgo, 
Taurus or Leo identical with the 3th Bhava, the woman 
concerned will have but a few childien. It the 7th 
house or the setting Navamsa belongs to Saturn, Mars 
or the Sun, the woman will have a diseased womb,. 
If malefic planets be in the 4th Bhava, the female 
born will become unchaste, posited in the Rasi or 
Amsa of Mars or Saturn, she will be a concubine. If 
the Lagna, the Moon and Venus. 

ST^qrr: ll^ll 

SioKQ 5. If the 7th Bhava or setting Navamsa be- 
longs to a benefic planet, ‚Äòhe Jwoman! born will be 
possesssed of handsome hips and very fortunate. If 



SI. 6-7 


115 


the Moon, the Lagna and the 4th house be connected 
with benefics, the woman concerned will be chaste, 
and be endowed with very good qualities. If bena> 
fics are posited in Trikona houses, she will be happy, 
possessed of children, and wealth and be good-natured. 
If the said houses be occupied by weak malefics, the 
woman will become barren or her children will all 
die early. 

Sloka 6 . ‚ÄîWhen the Moon is in a Rasi belonging to 
Mars, the woman born will be (1) ill-behaved (2) a men- 
ial or slave, unchaste (3) virtuous lofty-minded and 
prosperous (4) deceitful and (5) frail according as the 
Trimsamsa of the Moon belongs to (1) Mars. (2) Saturn 
(3) Jupiter (4) Mercury and (f) Venus respectively. 
When the Moon is in sign Vrishabha or Tula the corres- 
ponding effects are: (1) She will be very frail ( 2 ) she 
will resort to a second husband (3) she will be highly 
respected (4) very intelligent and (S) famous. When 
the Moon occupies a house of Mercury, the respec- 
tive effects are: (1) she will be dishonest (2 'she will 
be a eunuch (3) Chaste (4) endowed with all good 
qualities and (5) repining. 

garrs'q‚Äôf frrrT%5qT%?Ti‚Äô:fr i 

.5¬´rhri 

Shka 7.-- If the Moon be posited in Karkataka, the- 
effects in their order are; (I' she will be self-willed and 



114 




Adh. XI 


lincontrolled (2) she will kill her husband (3) she will 
be endowed with many good qualities (4) she will be 
skilled in the Arts and (5) she will be virtuous. If the 
Moon occupies a sign of Jupiter, the effect will be to 
make the woman born (1) endowed with many good 
qualities (2) not to have much sexual activity (3) pos- 
sess many good qualities (4) skilled in the Arts and (5) 
very chaste. When the Moon is in a sign owned by 
Saturn, the several effects will respectively be to 
make the female born (1) a maid servant C2)'attached to 
another man (3) have the husband under her control 
(4) unchaste and (5) barren and indigent. If the Moon 
be in Simha, the effects of the Moon being posited in 
the several Trimsamsas will respectively be to make 
the woman born (1) a wicked wife (2) a person of 
despirable character (3) the wife of a king (4) one of a 
masculine disposition and (5) attached to a man other 
than her husband. 

Sloka 8, ‚Äî The effects described above as due to the 
Trimsamsa or degree are occupied by the Moon at 
birth or those mentioned :for the Trimsamsa rising at 
ibe time will come to pass according as the one 
Trimsamsa or the other is stronger. 

*gr Rr<Tr sRJTnT 

srr cshk-t ftirori^Ri iiMi 

S'oka 9.‚Äî Astrologers declare that (!) the eldest 
brother (2) the mother (3) the father (4) the youngest 
brother respectively of a person will die (soon after the 
marriage) if his wife be born under the stars (l'> Jyeshta 



11 & 


SI. lO-ll 

Stabhisliak, Moola, Krittika and Pushya will be barren, 
have become widows, mothers of children that are 
dead, will have been cast away by their husbands 
or be without wealth. 

^FJTR^crvnnrqr: vn^r*. 

^ iilou 

Sloka iO.‚ÄîIf the lords of (1) the Lagna, (3) the 9th 
house and 3 the sign occupied by the Moon be asso- 
ciated with benefics and are posited in good houses 
and be of brilliant rays (be not be eclipsed), the woman 
concerned will be held in high esteem by her rela- 
tions. She will do many good deeds, will be very hand- 
some and be prosperous. She will please her husband, 
bear good sons and be virtuous in her disposition, the 
period of this happy life with her husband depending 
on the strength derived by the 8th house from benefics 
through association or aspect). 

¬ªT5r^i^'iKT5fif5fr't ii¬ª Ui 

irm 

Sloka IL‚Äîli a woman's menses set in when the- 
Moon is in an (Anupachaya-lst, 2nd, 4th 

5th, anp 7th, 8th. 9th and X2th place and aspected by 
Mars, they be come favourable to conception and not 
otherwise. The husband should sow the seed when the 



Adk XH 

Moon occupies an Upachaya (3rd, 6th, 10th and 

11th) house in respect and to the female's nativity) is 
aspeeted by Jupiter. This is to be done at an unexcep- 
tionable Lagna with many good points in its Javour and 
unconnected with (Parva) and other objectionable 
period of time. 

Thus ends the 11th Adhyaya "on the Horoscopes 
of women " in the work Phaladgepika 
composed by Mantreswara. 


II II 

^srirflff r 5<fr ^ ftr¬´r: 

^ ii¬ª ii 

ADHYAYA XII. 

Sloki 1. If Jupiter and the lords of the 5th house 
reckoned from the Lagna and the Moon be well-placed, 
and 5th house has on it the aspect of a benefic planet 
or of one owning an auspicious house (i.e., other than 
‚Ç¨th, 8th and 12th), or if the lords of the Lagna and the 
5th house or be posited together in a house or have 
mutual benefic aspect or occupy each other's places, 
the acquisition of children 1*=^ assured. 

Sloka 2.‚Äî When the 5th places counted froni the 
Lagna, Jupiter and the Moon are either associated 
with or aspected by ihjj|efic3 and are devoid of benefic¬Æ 



iSK 34 


1]7 


or of theit aspect, or, when these houses are surround- 
ed by malefics on both sides and when the lords of the 
above said houses are posited in Dusstthanas (/. t\, 6th, 
8th and 12th), the person concerned can have no issue 
whatever. 

2^t: ^ 55ryr i 

^I5Tg?T^^^&2¬ªTJ5ftfk5‚ÄòVrTJTr 
' ?T!rf^ !5?nTf?rits575?Tsrrg: ir^ii 

Sloka 3. -‚ÄîIf a malefic planet owning the 5th house 
be in that house, the person concerned will have child- 
ren. When thathojsais occupied by a malefic, the 
person will have sons in plenty. It a benefic planet 
should occupy the 5th house and at the same tim^ 
own that sign or be in exaltation, there, the result is 
loss of children. The signs Vrischika, Kanya 
and Simha when they happen to represent the 
5th house are termel childless Fasis and a person 
born under such a condition will be of very limited 
progeny and this too will be aCcomi lished only after a 
long interval. 

igr% ¬•r%- 

?r5r=!i¬´niFr5!ri?7T^ iiyii 

Sloka 4 . ‚Äî ^When the Sun is posited in the 5th house 
idential with childless Rasi, Saturn is in the 8th and 
Mars ill the Lagna ; or when Saturn, Jupiter and Mars 
occupy respective' / the Ligna, the 8th and the 12th 
and the 5th house happens to ber a childless sign ; or 
when th^ Moon occupies the 11th, and the 5th house 
reckoned from Jupiter is occupied by a malefic plahet 





Adb. XII 


.118 


and there ate many planets stationed in the Lagna ; the- 
, Iverson' bbneerhed will have a child late in' life after a 
, great effort. 

WT 5n wflr g^rsnra i 

^ gf ! g<TT ? ii5r\[ 

5rf5nj% ?T5cgrrTf^%^ ll'^ll 

Sloka 5 . ‚Äî If the Sun should singly (without being 
associated with any other planet) occupy the 5th house- 
identical with Karktaka, there is possibility of the per- 
sonconcerned having children by a second wife. The 
same should be predicted if Mars or Venus be similarly 
situated, Saturn in such a position will give many child- 
ren. The Moon or Mercury similarly placed will not give 
many while Jupiter in the Moon's sigh identical with 
the 5th house will make the person conoerned the 
father of many daughters. 

sqr?ni3RR¬´rti?i|:^¬´rJ^ i 

ii^ii 

Sloka 6. The following 4.xoga? lead to family ex- 
tinction : ( 1 ) The 4th, the 7th and' the 10th houses in 
my nativity being occupied respectively by a malefic 
planet, Venus and the Moon ; (2) the 12th, the 8th the 
Sth and the first houses being oocupied by malefics ; 
(3) Venus and Mercury in the 7th, Jupiter in the Sth 
and malefics in the 4ih houses ; and ( 4 ) the Moon in 
the Sth and malefics in the Sth, the 12th and the Ist. 



SI.8--10 


no 

Sloka /.‚Äú‚ÄúThe following two yogas lead to affliction 
through children or barrenness f (1) a malefic in the 
Lagna, its lord in the 5th. the lord of the 5th in th e 3rd, 
and the Moon in an odd Rasi or Amsa in the 5th and 
aspected by the Sun. 

^^TicTTir: f%Tar: ikii 

Sloka 8, If the 5th bhava be a sign owned by Saturn 
or Mercury and is aspected by or associated with Mandi 
or Saturn, the person concerned will have' a son by 
adoption, The same will be thev^ result when the lord 
of the 5th house is weak and is not connected in any 
way with the lords ot the 1st and the 7th houses. 

55 ^ ;twt: \ m \ 

Sloka 9 . ‚Äî If the lord of the 5th house be in depres- 
sion or in an inimical house or be eclipsed, or be in 
conjunction with the lords of the 12th, the 6th and the 
8th houses' the result will be the loss of children, say 
the astrologers. The same will be the case when the 
lord of the 5th is posifed in the 5th and is not 
aspected by benefics. 

^ *T5r5 i 

gflprt Wf I‚ÄôsrfTf ?Rrr ii^¬ÆH 

Sloka 70.‚Äî If in any nativity the' lord cf the 5th house, 
Jupiter, Mars and the Sun are all posited in male 
INavamsas, they lead to the possession of a good number 
of children, so, the sages say, the nature ‚Äî good or other- 
wise‚Äî of the children being ascertained from the 
strength of the lord of the 5th house. 



AdK. XII 


______ . - . - ‚ô¶ . 

'eftwr^ 5 Jrtf^% ^ 2 ?rt ssracf^; i 

^orf sr^iT \\\\\\ 

S!oka3 11 . ‚Äî If the house or its lord be posited iit 
a male sign or Amsa or be in conjunction with or aspect- 
ed by male, planets, the children will be all males. 
The btrth will be of daughters if the said houae or its 
lord be in a female Rasi or Amsa. or be associated with 
or aspected by female planets. 

m irirsr?^ ¬´rTr 

S/oA-a J2.‚Äî Conceptfon (of a birth) may take place 
when the Sun and Venus in the case of males, and Mars 
and the Moon in the case of females, are possessed of 
strength and pass-through their Basis or Amsas identical 
with an Apachaya (1st, 2ncl, ^th, 7th, 8th, 9th and 
12th Rasi 

SJoka ‚Äî i3. The number of issues should be deter- 
mined by a consideration of (1) the planets in the 5th 
house or ihose that are posited along with the lord of 
the 5th house, as to how many of them are in friendly, 
depression or inimical Navamsas. A simllar-examina< 
tion should also be made in respect of the 5th house 
or its lord reckoned from the sign occupied by Jupiter 
the sign representing the Navamsa occupied by the Sun . 

=5r 5¬ªiThr% 

? 5 flr<Tt xr¬´rr?n?i¬ª5rq[; i 

<5!Ttr?rftrn Biw g ¬ªyn 



SI- H 


5:TT3TtsvqW! 1 2 1 


LUoka ‚Äî Add together the figures representing the 
positions of Jupiter, the Moon and Mars in the case of 
female horoscopes. If the result denotes an even Rasi 
and an even Navamsa, the strength of fecandity in the 
female for producing offspring is assured. If it is mixed 
(/. e,, Rasi male and Amsa female or vic^^ versa), there 
will be children only after a great effort. If the sum- 
total of the figures denoting the positions of the San, 
Venus and Jupiter signify an odd Rasi and an odd 
Navamsa, it‚Äô denotes that the virility in the mule to 
produce offspring is very strong ; and in caze one of 
the two (Rasi and Navamsa) be even, one h.as to 
predict a mixed result. 


1 

i. note hclov,- two 

a>po-o- - 

-a hudi 

iu:l 

ajifl 

liis w 

if‚Äô. 



IIUSnAND. 




WL¬•K 




doru, Tuc'.Siloy th<* 


Rn 

‚Ä¢n , 

fri(];i 

.y, ti'c 


1I,N 

litth. 

March 1891, 4-15 p. >f 


.In no ?905 

Tiiglil. 

2-30 \. 


(1) 

11 --11‚Äù i:]'-- 2" 

Sun 


o . 


‚Ñ¢1()A 

. 1" 

(1) 

(2) 


Moon 

1 

0 -‚ñÝ 

-28 '‚Ä¢ 

-55 

lo" 

(^) 

(-3) 

5'-‚Äú 8^' 

Mars 


r,- 

"lo 

5^- 

17" 


fl) 


Mercury 

- ) - 

... ^ ‚ñÝ 

‚ñÝ - 8'- 

-21 " 

(il 

(5) 

SO‚Äî ir-.27 ‚Äî 11" 

Jiij liter 

‚ñÝ} 

- 2'‚Äô 

-M 1 

0 1 ' ' 

O' 

(6) 

8" 

Yen us 



‚Ä¢‚ñÝ‚ñÝ21' 


‚ñÝ11" 

(0 

17) 

4...g9A_56 ‚Äî 51/' 

Satun 

! 

10 

‚ñÝ10 

-.18' 

- ‚Ä¢ 1 

(7/ 

(8) 

4‚Äî 13' - 25'‚Äî 11" 

1 .iigna. 


n 

* 10 

-18' 

M" 

0> 


::g (1). (0) anti (5}\v(.; g 

vi 

AiMiu 

:s (‚ñÝ 

d, A 

0 and 

O‚Äô v.c 

! 


7-20^‚Äî39‚Äî21" = 


0 

-J 

[7"- 

1 1 

1 1 

r,i " 


Vi 

ischika Rasi, Makara Nn 

- 

Tula 

riasi , "S 

loeuii 

NiU'U 

iisa, 

VMIl! 

Cl. Roth Risi and Na 

R 

asi odtl 



USil 0 

VOii, 

riin 

vanif 

n,v arc ovtni. So tlic viri 

j'e 

suit irs 

iiii 


>v is miscd. 



liby ui Hie male to pnvfiu'i* 
not strong. 

v‚ÄôhaccHVple M,re living auJ itavo so hir no ishuok, 

II ii 

'T^n;3%?r: 



Adh. XII 


322 T:^r^?frr¬ª!rT 


?rrf??T 

^ firfs^Toi ?r ^ 71 ?!;^ RsiiTT^ ^rr;ii^'^.ii 

"/o^a 75. S:ibstract live times the figures for the 
Sun from five times the figures for the Moon. li the 
Tithi represantcrl b/ the. result be an auspicious one 
in the bright half of a month, progeny is assured to the 
native (even^ wilhout much exertion. But if it be one 
of the dark half of the month, there is no such possi- 
bility, It is by a close examination of tVie strength of 
the Tithi ‚Äî whether it is auspicious or otherwise-in both 
the Pakshas - bright and dark ‚Äî that one has to divine 
the possibility of the native being blessed with issue. 
During an (Amavasyab a (Chidra) Tjthi, 

the (Vishti) Karana or any one of IheT^^^T^t^ 

iStthita-karanas), there will be no issue at all. 

The 1^3; ((lliidrji.) .w (l) (Clmturbhi), 12) 

i^\u^sUi:l), i:]) fAsl^Urni), (d (N;ivami), (5) 

(D.vadasi) arui (li) (Ch{itar'1;¬ª.si), TIh'so Cy mv i[^v,wrA\y 

avoidod for any juispioiotis fLnicbif)n. 

There are 11 Karana^ distrihuLod over the dO 'rithici 
of tla> lunar nuaddi at the rate of 2 Karatias for eacli Ti> hi foin* 
td‚Äôir^o, i//;r , (Chatuslipada.) (2) (Nagava)^ 

(d) T^^3^d^iuistughna) ami ( j) (f-^nkuna'. are eailod 

(SI ,(!iii‚Äôa) Karauas and arc so named as they ])ermanGntly lioldsvvay 
over tlio four half Tithis comnioucing from tlio socoml half of 
(Krishna. Pakslia C)iafcurd<‚Äòisih The other seven, vir. 
(1) (Bava), (2) (Ralava), (3) (Kaulava\ 

(Taitthila), (5) (Oaraja), (0) ^Ii&r5r (Vanija^ and (7) f^lvt 

(Vishfd) or VrST (Bhadra) are ealled (Chara) or moveable 

Karanas and occur in 8 cycles to preside over the remaining 
half-tithia of tlio lunar rnontlj hogining with tlm In>¬´v' hrlf of 
^qr^srwT {Suklapaksha pratbama) . 



Si. 10-18 


1:23 


T.ikinj^ fcUo Siiiiiplc Hoi'oscojx^ t^ivoti undov fciio provioin ISIokti. 

HUSBAND. - Wik‚ÄôE. 

r> linios tho figures for o tinios tho (iguro.s for 

I'ho AToc'U ‚Äî 23 --2*'> the Atoou 51- - 2'f ‚Äî30 

Q times too 3 tiinoK the 

Jigure.9 for ' figures for 

the Sun 5G‚Äî 2()'‚Äî o' ‚Äî 10" rhe Sun Jl lo' :, q ‚Äò ‚ñÝ 

Substruotiug ‚Ä¢ Suhtnicting 

wo got 4‚Äî 0''~18'‚Äî fo" wo get , 43- S ‚Äô- 4f/‚Äî lo'- 

-120" 1S' l5" = llth Tithi - =218' 45' 45"- fifth Title ^ 

Ukacksi (Bright lialf). Chaturthi (Dark half), wlAcii 

is af^ (Chidra) Tithi. 

II || 

nrrc; ^ ^^:nr ^r?i; q'^?^ <T(^T-FiTK-iT?lr: i 

q‚ÄòS[irg¬´q-t lu. -.if 

TTJTWfjr?!? ¬´r5r<ir qorqrr g- i 

%r^?|tTiT5r^Rqi ii'jii 

q-^Turwr^t‚Äô^^Rr J^rq‚Äô^rr^ ^ %%?t ffr spirnr ii^<:!! 

Sloka 16-18 . ‚Äî Should however the result happen to 
be one of the (Chhidra) Tithis, the fVishti,'- 

Karana, or a (Stthirakarana, alluded to in the 

last sentence of the previous Sloka), one ought to wor- 
ship God Krishna by means of the (Purusha 

Sukta) Mantras to ward off the barrenness threatening 
the family. If the Tithi disclosed be t^ljl (Shashti), he 
ought to worship God Subrahmanya ; if it be =5rgscrf 
<Chatutthi, he ought to propitiate the lord of serpents; 
if it be (Navarai), he ought to arrange for the 

reading of nSfW‚ÄôiT (Ramayana) and hear that story ; if 
it be (Ashtami), he ought to observe the ¬´rer¬ª>T 

<Sravana) Vrata (by fasting) , if it be fChatur- 



12i Adh. XII 

dasi;, lie iDuat wcr^iiaip God Rudra (Siva) by 
(RudraparayaTia) ; If it be (Dwadasi) he must 

propitiate the Gods by liberal feeding; if it be 
(Amavasya) or ^Pournami\ he ought to 

propitiate the Manes. These things he ought tc do 
all the more and v/ith greater care and effort when the 
Tithi happen- to be one among the last five of the 
month‚Äîvi?., aitei (Krishna Paksha Dasami). 

Generally, in ihe dark half of a month to which-so ever 
of the three divisions a Tithi may belong, worship 
ought to be resorted to : the particular deity to be 
proi)iiiated being ?ft7TTI‚Äúir (Nagaraja) in the first division, 
\ i::., 1 ‚Äî 5 Tithib), (Skanda) in the second (next 5 

Tithiis -i, e., 6 - 10) and (Hari) in the third (or Iasi 5), 

rrc%=gr^i^if?!¬´r- 


S:oka V'l.‚Äîli at a birth the lord of the 5th house be 
posited in its inimical or depression sign or be eclipsed 
(by the Sun's rays) or occupy any of the (Dus- 

stthanas, v'u:., Ihe 6th, the 8th or the 12th) ; or the planet 
occupying the 5th house be similarly situated or happen 
to be the lord of any one of the three houses, viz., the 
6th, the 8th or the 12th one ought to declare childless- 
ness as an inevitable result, He ought to divine the 
source of the same by an examination of the particular 
deity, tree and animal represented by the signodr upi- 
^d by that planet. 

fJW: ?5TTTTf?‚ÄôT^0TT 



SI. 20-22 




‚ÄôTrtq'^g?:fsr?Tf|-iT2:^^fP'T7?7T5^3rJT- 

^*Tr 5‚Äô:<T3'IT?:'^Tr^f^, ' 
?.?fe=ftrft|r^3n?T=f r'Tq^atft Vst'7;v5>m;T 

TT5%5¬ª¬´rr%T^yn3r*Tr f7??'TH: ir^: HVf ti 

Z/ 

iTigtW^Tf‚ÄôTcT?^ ?jiw% Er?TTf'.a^i'T I 

^f^?rrr?T?fr 

5fr?Tt sri‚Äô-I ?7JriffTfirr li^'":l> 

Sloka 2G‚Äî22. H the planet in question happens to 
be the Sun, the person concerned becomes sonless 
owing to injury done to God Siva and Garuda' and the 
consequent curse of the Manes ; if the Moon, it will be 
due to the displeasure and anger of the mother, a 
5RTT|;'^ (Sumangali) or other venerable woman owing 
to her feelings having been hurl: ; in the case of Mars, 
it will be due to some fault done to the village deity, 
to God (Kartikeya), to an enemy, or one's 

Dayadins ; if the planet be Mercury, the sonlessness 
will be due to curses made by youngsters or to the 
killing of spawns (eggs of fishes and similar creatures) 
or to the wrath of God Vishnu ; if Jupiter be such 
planet, it will be due to some harm done to the 
hereditary Brahmin family priest or the destruction of a 
tree full of fruits : if the lord of 5th cr the planet posited 
therein be Venus, the cause of childlessness will be 
-due to the cutting off of la tree full of flowers, cr an 
injury caused to a virtuous lady or to the cow kind or 
a sinful deed to people that ought to be revered ; if 
Saturn be the planet under advertance, it will be 
due to the destruction of an (Aswattha or 



120 Adh. XU 

Pipul tree or on account of Yama's ire or through 
departed spirits, goblins and ;tjie like ; if Rahu should 
occupy the 5th house or be associated with the lord of 
that house it will be due to the curse of a serpent ; in 
the aaie of Ketu, it will be owing to the curse of a 
Brahmin. If it be Mandi, it will be due to a curse from 
departed sprits, If Venus and the Moon in conjunc- 
with Mandi should be in such a position, the cause will 
be attributed to the murder of a damsel or the killing 
of a cow. If Jupiter or Ketu in coiijunction with Mandi 
be in the 5th house, the sonlessness will be on account 
oi the murder of a Brahmin. 

is juioI.Ih'v t‚ÄôijH i i.nh quiirtei' (if flioijM)!,!? 

Sloka 23.- ‚Äî Thus have been detailed ths several sins 
accrued by one's actions in his many previous births 
and now revealed in his present nativity which lead to 
childlessness and to ward off which and to secure a son, 
persons versed in the Astrological science have recom- 
mended (appropriate) particular Japas, gifts and such 
other good actions prescribed for the several planets. 

#fTfr ^Trwjvir^rr: ‚Äôjirr i 

^‚ñÝrjr ^3ftn*TST^5f KTjrqrriar^rTtg iRyii 

oVo/tc. ‚Äî-.?'/ A holy bath in Ratneswaram. engaging 
oneself in reciting the accounts of a venerable and a 
revered personage, worship of God Siva, observance of 
vows with reference to (propitiate) God Vishnu, gifts, 
ceremonies in honor of departed spirits, installation of 
the serpent deity these are the various modes recom- 
mended by which one can attain progeny. 



51 . 


5Tgr5TtSV-^r?i: 


5w^T5f;??i ^ i 

5^5T?:T{triT?T5rT offE% jtIt ^T !l 

SJloka 25 . ‚Äî The birth of a son should be expected 
during the Dasa or Apahara of any one of the 6 placets, 
vj\r., (1) the lord of the Lagna, (2) the loid of the 7tb, 

(3) the lord of the 5th. (4) Jupiter; (5) the planet as- 

pecting the 5th. house or (6) the one occupy iiitj the 
5th house or when Jupiter in his orbit transits the 
sign or the flavamsa Easi occupied by the lord of the 
5th house or the (IJpagraha) Yamakantaka, 

fTjrr'jfirsr: ‚Äôj^rf ?Tjt% i 

gT^if)T vfrsriHvf iR^ii 

Sloka 26 . ‚Äî Find when the lord of Lagna comes dat- 
ing his transit (1) in coiijunction with the lord of the 
5th house (2) to his ah: at ion sign (3) to his own Ra;n 

(4) to the 5th house and ;5) to the sign occupied by 
the lord of the 5ili house. During any one of these 
transits the birth of a son is possible. 

iir5r?r^mTcJTiTJn^^RT n^T‚Äôs^nr, i 

¬ª?^^? 7 ?f^^' 5 Rcrrq-?fT?rt 11="^ 1 

Sloka 27. Add*the figures of the following three 
planets : ‚Äî ( 1) The lord of the Lagna the lord of the 

7th house and (3J the lord of the 5th house. During the 
course of the Maha Dasa represented by the ruler of 
the asterism and in the Apaharas of any one of the 
following, viz., (1) the planet in the 5th house, (2) the 
planet aspecting the 5th house and (3) the planet 
owning the 5th house, the birth of a son may be 
predicted. 

¬ªf?TTi^5gT¬ª‚Äò5¬£rgT CfT I 

^ ^Tfrsnfrr! 



'!fr5r^,Rr^T5Tt 


3 


Adh. Xlf 


Slota 2.7. "-Find which of the following is strong : ‚Äî 
(1) The lord of the 5th house (2) Jupiter, (3), (4), (5) 
and (6) the lords respectively of the Basis and Navam- 
sas occupied by (1) and (2). During the Dasa or Apa- 
hard of this strong planet, birth of a son is possible. 

3T'‚ÄôJis=?r5n‚Äôir<>T g- {ircT%rvT?^i?r5?^wr 

:Jiok'j Men will generally ha ve the birth of a 
son vvhen Jupiter in the coarse oi his orbit passes 
through a Rasi trine to tiie sign repiesenting the Rasi 
or Amsd occupied by the planet owning the 5th house 
reckoned from Jupiter, According to other treatises 
on the subject, one ought to investigate indications of 
progeny from the positions of planets at the birth time 
of the native, 

JTrjrsrlfvfqr^^r ^ i 

JTH mk Br^fSr 'll ‚Äô^rri-iT^r; i \\o ii 

diorta 30r Note the ruler of the asterism occupied 

by the Moon as also that of the 5th from it. Add the 
figures of these two planets. When Jupiter in his orbit 
passes through the sign represented by this result or 
through one of its triangular ones, the birth of a son is 
possible. 

3TmR?T?Ti?5cr^T 

Slokc The birth ^of a child) may also take place 
when the Sun in his orbit passes through the third 
sign reckoned from the Rasi representing the 
(Nisheka) Lagna or transits a Rasi triangular to the 
(Adhana) Lagna 



SI- 32 12!> 

snvfRsrjTrc^rr^sTSFJTvriTirsf^ err 5T‚Äôqrer?mw eri'^^rw i 
sTrarT?T^?r sr^: 3E?rr?t iiB^iii 

Sloka 32 , ‚Äî If a birth takes place in a Lagna which 
iS the 5th or the 9th from the Adhana Lagna, it should 
be declared as through the effects of the native's good 
actions done in previous tirths. If benefics should 
occupy or aspect the Adhana Lagna, the person born 
will be endowed with long life, v/ealth and happiness. 

irsfnr i 

?TWTrr5r% *r 3rfiT=gr?^ iiBsji 

-Find the exact g‚Äú[J^5Tt5T (.Dwadasamsa) ot 
the Moon at the time of the (Adhana) and the 

Rasi to which it belongs. Count from (Mesha or from) 
this sign as many Basis as the number represented by 
the (Dwadasamsa) in question. When the 

Moon is in the Rasi thus found in the month of 
delivery, the birth of the child in the womb may be 
expected. 

nr¬•r‚Äô(crr3r3E5{t5FTaTlgi^ti^^??TiJT^TfrifiT^ciT3%g i 
sTTvjT^T^T^sfrr =Br jTfJTg^ ^rt^firft^srfrsT iiByii 

JT?5ir>ar7:f^r%?Ti^f '?:?r^ftrqfiTTr g^RrffTT 
^fJT 3'rT5TTse?n5r: 

SJoka 3^. -One ought to predict effects by aeon 
sideration of (the positions of the several planets with 
respect to) the Moon and the Lagna at the time of a 
query, adoption of a son, investiture of sacred thread, 
the gift of a girl, the first maturity, or the time of 
impregnation, as he would if a birth had taken place at 
the time. 

Thus ends the 12th Adhyaya on "Issue or Children ' 
in the work Phaladeepika composed by Mantreswara. 


17 



130 Adk XllI 


II II 

3ri^ fTJTf^ ^#jrw?:T3fif^5r^ % ?r?T= 'K^yrf^ 

gftrtR ^iT^T: Hill 

ADHYAYA XIII. 

Sloka ]. The lust thing that ought to be done by 
the elders when a son is born is the determining of the 
longevity or otherwise, and then only of the other 
effects. If the nativity be found to possess also some 
merits, they ought to be investigated with the help of 
persons proficient in the science of Astrology. 

Sloka 2.‚Ñ¢ -As regards the correct determining of the 
Lagna of birth, some opine that it is the time of 
(Adhana) or impregnation ; others say that it is the 
time when the head (of the infant) emerges ; some 
others say that it is the time v/hen the child (falls to) 
touches the ground ; while other experts in Astrology 
hold that it is the time when the child gets itself com- 
pletely separated from the mother's womb. 

JTT^rr ^ Rr^rr m¬Æar%?Tf?Trg^f^ ii^ii 

‚ñÝS' /oita 3, - In tlie case of viviparous creatures, it is 
not possible to determine the period of life within the 
first twelve years. In consequence of the sinful acts of 
the parents (whether in this or in a previous birth), the 
child meets with destruction being seized by demons 
called i3T5r?r?; (Balagrahas). 

3Ti% g-3^% ^ ftsrimcrqiTOf : i 



131 


SI. 6-7 

Sloka 4. ‚Äî If the child dies in the first four years, it 
is because of the mother's sins. If in the middle four 
years, it is owing to the accumulated sins of the father. 
If it comes by its death in the last four years, it must 
be due to its own sins (in a previous birth) 

SJoka 5 . In order to ward off the evil effects enun- 
ciated above, the father should arrange for the perform- 
ance of religious rites preceded by the incantations of 
Mantras and offerings of oblations by the pouring of 
ghee into consecrated fire on every birthday of the 
child till its 12th year; supplementing these with 
suitable medical treatments and the like, the life of the 
child must be promoted and the child protected. 

5r^i¬ªiTT srrf i 

Sloka 6, -‚ÄúThe first eight years in men's lives is the 
period of (Balarishta)-~ills that afflict children 

Till the 20th year, they say, it is the (Yoga- 

rishta) period (evil brought on by planetary conjunc- 
tions). It is called (Alpayus) or short life when 

the period extends to 32. It is called 
(Madhyamayus) or middle age when the period of life 
extends to 70 years. It is (Purnayus) when the 
period of life extends to 100 years. 

‚Ä¢ IWIl 

SVoi^a 7. -A hundred years are generally reckoned 
as the period of life for human beings. The division of 



, Adh; XI II 

this period into three portions constitute respectively 
the life period of a short-lived, middle-aged and long- 
lived person and is recognised universally. 

rrRr?7f‚Äô7?fiTt?jvrT?TT'i?riTqig ^ i 

rT5!n?^q-i% f^q- 

^ 5jvreT^5='4 f4^?r ii-iU 

‚ñÝS‚Äô/o.ta 8 . ‚Äî If a birth occurs in any of the evil Yogas 
(Dinamrityu), (Dinaroga) or RtT^SKM 

(Vishaghatikala), the child will die very soon. If there 
be a birth when the Moon is in the asterisms y:?T 
tPushya), tJsrklSl (Purvashadha), and (Chitra), the 
death of the father, the mother, the child or the maternal 
uncle respectively should be predicted according as 
the Moon is stationed in the 1st, 2nd, 3rd or 4th quarte'^ 
of any of these stars at the time. If a birth occurs when 
the Moon is in (Moola) and if the Lagna should 
also have no connection with any of the benefic 
planets either by occupation or by aspect, the destruc- 
tion respectively of the father, the mother or of the 
family itself should be expected according as the Moon 
is in the 1st, 2nd or the 3rd quarter. But if the birth 
be when the Moon is in the 4th quarter of Moola 
there will be prosperity and wealth. In the case of 
Aslesha (stt^TT). the result will be reverse. 

T^rTWr^ (Diiuuiiiit.yu) iui.l (Diiiiiviiivi) ave thus lio- 

tiiii'il ill (Kaliipnikasika) : 

^ 5PJT5Tt 1 1 



138 


51. 9 

The first quail r r ‚Äò,>f (Dhaiiislita) and (lia,sta); 

I ho second (iuarter mI fq^Tf^p'Visaldia) c.nd (Avai j th-i 

drd quarter of v !^^^arahh.:v;l^aI)adu,) ;iud 

(Asloslia) ; and fclie f Tfi', qi'.oa^n of ^3C*rft (f>h:ir;ini) iiru‚Äô. 
(^Fooia) lire termed ^ (,l )h#:'.mrity u\ and evil Yo,q;i. e '.'crfrd 

>jily if it occurs duriii.t; day tinu . 

The first (juarte ‚Ä¢ . ‚Ä¢ (Aslosha) :iiid 

(IJttarahhadrapada) ; (die second quarter of Vr?r^ (Bharani) amrl 
(i^foola) ; tiie th'od .r-.'ir^<e; of (L^ttarjipii.d^^nni) 

Old (SrUiVana) ; :i,'\ : t.ijo tmu‚ÄôUt quarter of (^‚Äô'vati) fiiC I 

(Mrign^inis) :ue hi\:ovn as ( r>ii)arop:i), oie evil 

innuence of wliich e\isrs ;idy if it oeenrs during day thny. Those 
!‚ñÝ nVo (tux' , Dinamrity c :e'i.M)iiv:,; r,q:i) are liowm/ei' devfdd e evil 
if they occur durin.i‚Äô idpdd. 

t'ov (Vsvi;,i..';i.^iUk-,ij, see jTT. Tf. V--11'2. p. 

ftrff iTT?tffT ?r*Tr¬´Tf?r: I 

STTrr: ^=!TFJJ%- 

wr^rtvriTTTra =?r ??ri stt ii'^.ii 

Sloka 9 . ‚Äî If a birth happens at the extreme end of 
a Rasi which is (occupied by) associated with or aspeci - 
ed by a malefic planet, the child will surely meet with 
its death at once. If the birth be at a ?rr*ilTf^ (Gandantba 
vide 1-4 suiyra), the father, the mother, or the child itself 
will die. Should However the child survive, he will 
become a king, I! born at the junction ot any one of 
the four corners identical with the conjunction of or 
aspect by a malefic, the death of the child will soon 
happen. The same result will occur if the Moon at 
birth attains the fateiui degree in any sign (vide next 
¬´loka in/ra) and is at the same time posited in a Kendra 
or the Rth house. 





Adh. XI II 


134 


ignFST ^ 5r?:?r: i 

n3?r ^?^¬´rT*n: itt^st iil¬∞ii 

SJoka.lO . ‚Äî If the degrees attained by the Moon in 
Mesha and the other signs be respectively 26, 12, 13, 
25, 24, 11, 26, 14, 13, 25, 5 and 12, they indicate 
death. {Vide also stt. itt. P- 38). 

g%¬´r ¬´rii=7t vrrgjfR stri 5T%Jr i 

ggfir f^TR grfVTinT: ^^<Jr i^grftJTT sricfi n?riH= I'Un 

Sioka 7/.‚Äî The follov/ing are (also) respectively 
deemed (by some others) as wf^T^TRT* (Mrityubhagas 
or fateful degrees) in the several signs from Mesha on- 
wards : 8, 9, 22, 22, 25, 14, 4, 21', 18, 20, 21 and 10. 

m rTgjrTS^¬´f'{*ri^ 

grj: ll^.^.li 

.IJoka i2.- -One may predict the death of the child 
to occur very soon in the following case : vlv., (1) when 
malefics occupy (by themselves) the 8th and the 
Kendra houses, (2) when malefics are all placed in the 
1 st and the 8th houses (3) when they occupy the 1st 
and the 7th, (4) when the Moon dr the Lagna is betwixt 
two malefics, (5) if the Moon being devoid of strength 
occupy the 6th, the 8th or the 12th, (6) if the waning 
Moon in conjunction with a malefic, is in the 1st, 5th, 
7th, or 9th house (7) if the malefics be in the 8th and 
7th and (8) when no benefic planets occupy or aspect 
a Kendra house. 



51. 13-14 




m 


5/oA'a /3.‚Äî When the lord of the Lagna or of the sign 

occupied by the Moon at birth is weak and badly 
placed (i. e., in the 6th,. 8th or 12th house), the 
child will die within as many years as are represented 
by the said sign (when counted from Mesha). If the 
planet owning the Lagna-decanate or the decanato 
occupied by.the Moon be weak and badly placed, the 
period of exit of the child will be as many months as 
are represented by the sign owning the decanate in 
question. The period of life will be so many days from 
birth as are signified by the Rasi owning the Navamsa 
Lagna or Chandra Navamsa when the planet owning 
this is weak and similarly badly-placed. After a care- 
ful examination as to which among the two or three 
possibilities predominates and what malefics are posii- 
ed in the 5th and the 8th houses, one ought to divine 
about the ills of the child. 

=i3rc?r¬´TsriTaa[^s¬´r 

Sloka 14. ‚Äî Consider the following 3 pairs (A) the 
decanate Rasis of the Lagna and the Mpon ; (B) the 

"A 

^srsT^rnr 

ilrekkana liasi Ohandra drekkana llani 

Ckand I'Ofsa XivinV'T I‚Äôasi 


lijvt^nesa Navauisa RaHi 





i;:]6 


Adh. XI I r 


c 

?:rf3T =3r%5T3:fT5Tt5T 


\ i!) ‚ÄòiMcsa I)\v;vl;Hams:i. 


' Dvf.'irlasamsa 

Hfisi 



':'Cli;U‚Äôa) 

(tiiliU''‚Äô. 1 


55r?: (Chara,) 

fT¬ª3T (HU. it 

qvq- (Madliva) 

(('iiad'<a) 


ST^q (Alpa) 

T^YiX. (SLUhrai 

T+T^q" (in.l- 

-V'*) (l)il'^'lin) 

(Siihira,) 

((iliar:.. 

5 q^qr (Miullrya) 

(Stihira,) 


(Alpa) 

T^T^T Uniha.ya) 

fyt^r (8U!; 

ini) (DirKliii) 

T4T^ I'Chliaya) 

(Ul.i' 

^'Va) JTV33r (l\rat)l)y)i'' 

(Chiiaya) 

(('-ii.-u- 

3T5q (Alpa) 

dvamsa Rasis of the lord 

of the Lagna and the lord of 


the sign occupied by the Moon and (C) the Dwadasamsa 
Rasis of the lord of the Lagna and of the lord of the 8th 
house. The life of the child may be pronounced as 
(Deergha\ Madhya) and (Alpa) according as 
(a) when one of the Rasis in the said 3 pairs is a 
(Chara ' sign the other is a fChara), (Stthira) and 

(Ubhaya) sign, (b) when one of the Rasis is a 
(Stthira) sign, the other is a (Dwandwa), ^^cCChara) 
andfi?>i^ (Stthira) sign and ic) when one of the Rasis is 
a g;rgr (Dwandwa) sign the other is in a (Stthira 

(Dwandwa) and (Chara; sign respectively 

5rHT'sft![T5T*TT: 

?:r'ei5Tt?r¬ªsr*n^ci¬´rT 5¬Ær^rT i 



SI. 1(5-1^ 



Sloka 15.‚Äî The life of the native may be pronounced 
as long, medium and short according as the benefics 
and the lord of the Lagna are all posited in Kendra, 
Panaphara and Apoklima houses respectively. It the 
lord of the 8th house and the malefics occupy similar 
positions, the reverse should be predicted. Ascertain 
the friendship or otherwise of the following pairs; (1) 
the lord of the house occupied by the Moon and that 
of the 8th house from the Moon (2) lord of the Lagna 
and that of the -Sth house from the Lagna and (3) the 
Sun and the lord of the Lagna. If they are friendly, 
the native will be long-lived ; if inimical, he will be 
short-lived ; if neutral, he will have medium life. 

Sloka 16 . ‚Äî If the lord of the Lagna Rasi and the lord 
of the Lagna Navamsa be stronger than the lords 
of the 8th house reckoned from each, the native 
will be long-lived. The same remark holds good with 
respect to the lord of the Rasi occupied by the Moon or 
the lord of the Moon's Navamsa. If otherwise, the 
reverse will be the result. 

iilvsii 

i/oAa 17 .-‚ÄîIf the lord of the 8th house possessing 
greater strength than that of the, lord of the Lagna 
occupy a Kendra, and if malefics be posited in the 8th 
and 12th houses, the life of the native will be short, or 
he maybe of medium life, or even prolong his life to 
the full period with the vicissitudes of happiness and 
misery. 



1^3 Adh. Xlll 

ST^JT*r¬ªTSt 

5r^T ^fi¬ªr ^KqiJrftf fsrfai^ ^*t%: lK<iii 

Sloka lS~-ln the case of an ST^qT^^Tr?! (Alpayur- 
yoga), the person meets with his death when Saturn 
during his transit reaches in his first cycle the parti- 
cular portion of the zodiac signified by the sum-total 
of the figures (representing the position at nativity) of 
Saturn, Jupiter, the Sun and the Moon. If the native 
is found to be of medium life, the event will come off 
in the 2nd cycle. It will happen in the 3rd, if the native 
is pronounced to be a long-lived one. A clever 
astrologer will predict the event after also satisfying 
that the Dasa and Bhukti at the time is untoward. 

f^^iragqnrft i 

?T?fr qn 

rrqT5Tf?^TOTlf^¬ªf^^¬´FT5r?TI?rRr Ill'll! 

Sloka 19.‚Äî U the lord of the Lagna be associated 
with a malefic and be eclipsed by the Sun's rays or be 
in depression or an inimical sign, the demise of the 
native will have to be predicted, when the same lord in 
his transit happens to occupy one of the Dusstthanas 
{6th, 8th or 12th) or the Lagna or be somehow connect- 
ed with it. The same event may also be predicted 
from the Navamsa Lagna, the decanate Lagna or the 
Lagna Rasi occupied by the Moon. 

^ w¬ª¬´T?rffcr ¬´FTcrq; iRoii 



139 


SI. 21-23 

Sloka 20, ‚Äî If the following three planets, viz.^ the 
Moon, the lord of the sign occupied by the same and 
the lord of the Lagna be all welbplaced by being 
associated with or aspected by good planets and pos- 
sess many points of strength, that time must be 
declared as very auspicious and favourable to the 
native concerned. 

Sloka 2L ‚Äî The lord of the rising sign being possess- 
ed of great strength and unaspecied by malefic planets 
but aspected by benefic ones and occupying a Kendra 
position, wards off death and secures to the child long- 
life graced with numerous virtues and an illustrious 
or powerful sovereignty. 

sr5riT^?i; i 

srorm: iRRil 

Sloka 22. -li Jupiter, the minister of the Gods, endow- 
ed with all surpassing strength and glittering with his 
full collection of rays, is posited in the Lagna, he can 
singly ward off many of the evils which would other- 
wise be difficult to be got over, just as a humble saluta- 
tion placed with all sincerity before the lord Vishnu. 

iR^ii 

$loka 23,‚Äî The waxing Moon if posited in a Trikona, 



HO Adh. XIV 


the 11th house or a Kendra position with respect to the 
Lagna and at the same time in a sign or Navamsa 
belonging to the Sun, Moon or Jupiter, will conduce 
to the performance of meritorious deeds every day 
And ward off completely all ills. 

?!!iiTTRrT: i 

^ iiRyii 

Sloka 24--11, in a nativity, there be no malefics in 
the 1st, 4th, 5th, 7th, 8th, 9th and 10th houses, and if 
the lord of the Lagna and Jupiter occupy Kendra posi- 
tions, the person concerned will perform many good 
acts, enjoy all kinds of comforts, and live for a hundred 
years free from disease. 

iTTJT 

Sloka 25 .‚Äî Through the Dasas enunciated by Sripati, 
through Ashtakavarga, through Kalachakra Dasa and 
through the Ududasa system, a wise man ought to 
predict the Ayus of the native by the application of 
suitable rules after a correct calculation of the several 
planetary positions, careful working, and a minute 
scrutiny. 

Thus ends the 12th Adhyaya on '"the Length of Life" 
in the work Phaladeepika composed by Mantreswara. 



SI 1-3 J41 


II II 

ADHYAYA XIV. 

f^f^TfJTPT dTrvrrsrfWH^Im i 

^TTsq-^nrrnt %^q'Tf^HT5rTT^OT5‚ÄôT"3 11^.11 

Sloka I.‚ÄîAn^thing about diseases ought to be 
divined through (.1) the planets posited in the 6th house 
(2) those posited in the 8th and 12th houses (3) the 
planet owning the 6th house or (4) those in conjunc‚Äú 
tion with that planet. The particular disease may be 
predicted if the same happens to be signified by two, 
three or more independent Yogas. 

?:i^i:*rrr?TfTvr?T r5r¬ªT^‚ÄôTTif^vi*srf^i^ i 

<¬ªsP * ' ^ 

irii 

Sloka 2.‚Äî High fever dominated by viliated bile, 
burning of the whole body, epilepsy, heart-disease, 
eye-trouble, danger from enemies, skin-disease, lucaria 
(^¬ª?f^5^I^frt-Astthisruti), danger from wood, fire, weapon# 

and poison, trouble to one's wife, children and 
fear of quadruped, thief, the sovereign, the God Yama, 
serpent and God Siva,‚Äî all these may be caused by 
the Sun. 

:f 1 1 bj i 

Shka 3. ‚Äî Excessive sleep, Laziness, phlegmatic 
affection, (?pg;^Tr ~ Kapharoga), diarrhoea, carbuncle, 



142 Adh. XIV 


malarial-fever (typhoid) danger from horned and water 
animals, indigestion - Agnimandya\ tasteless- 

ness (ar^f^-Aruchi - Anorexia), trouble from or to 
women, jaundice, mental aberration, impurity of blood, 
danger from water, Balagrahas, Goddess Durga, Kinna- 
ras, God Yama, serpents and from female Yaksha may 
be expected through the Moon. 

Sloka 4, ‚Äî The disease and untoward events origi- 
nated by Mars are : excessive thirst, morbid irritation 
of blood bilious fever, danger from fire, poison, 
weapons, leprosy, eye-diseases, appendictis, epilepsy, 
injury to the marrow, roughness of the body, psoriasis 
(qriT - Pama), bodily deformities, trouble from the 
sovereign, enemies and thieves, fighting with brothers, 
sons, and foes, friends fear from evil spirits, Gandhar- 
vas, and frightful demons and diseases affecting tne 
upper limbs of the body (such as lungs, throat, teeth, 
tongue, ear, nose, etc.). 

( Pamika ) is synonymous with 
( Vicharchika-Psoriasis) . 

*rfVT#%^r^‚ÄôTWTff fw?:Rr 

Sloka 5.-Mercury brings on mental disease, trouble 
to the vocal organs, eye-disease, diseases of throat 
and nose, fever^ diseases arising from the three 



SI. 6-7 


143 




humours gricT (Vata), (Pittha) and (Kapha), 

poison, skin diseases, anaemia, bad dreams, itches and 
scab (Psoriasis^ falling into the fire, roughness or dry- 
ness of the body imprisonment and exhaustion, and 
harm from evil demons moving in the abodes of 
Gandharvas, and in fiery pits (where these evil spirits 
usually dwell) [or Gandharvas, the Earth, mansions 
and horses, etc., as well as evil spirits.] 

11^31 

Sloka 6 . ‚Äî Appendicitis (intestinal disorders), fever 
arising out of disorder in the entrails, diseases arising 
from sorrow, fainting or swoon, and phlegmatic dis- 
order ear trouble, giddiness, trouble in connection with 
temple matters, torture for knocking off hoarded wealth, 
harm resulting from the curses of Brahmins and Gods, 
disveases engendered by Kinnaras, Yakshas, Gods, 
serpents, and Vidyadharas, etc., (class of demi-gods) 
and troubles arising from serious offences done to 
wise men and elders, all these are indicated by 
Jupiter. 

tntif %5JTsr^f Ji5RtTJT^JTs?3rnTrir^fT 

,SJoka 7. ‚Äî Venus signifies the following: anaemia, 
diseases caused by the irritation of phlegmatic and 
windy humours, trouble to the eyes, urinary diseases, 
diseases in the generative organ, strangury, trouble in 




Acih- XlV 


cohabitation, exudation of semen, loss (fading away) 
of bodily splendour as a result of intercourse with 
courtezans, rickets, fear from witches, female ghosts 
and female deities and break of friendship with a dear 
friend. 

Sloka S.‚Äî Saturn brings on diseases caused by wind 
and phlegm, paralysis of the leg, misfortune, weariness, 
mental aberration belly-ache, internal or heart pain 
heat, desertion of seryants, injury to the ribs, danger to 
wife and children, injury to some limb, mental anguish, 
would as a result of a blow from a piece of wood or 
stone and trouble or harm from (foul) ignominious 
goblins and the like. 

fij'T 

gtTTfi ^ fgt[Tr^g>5TJTW ^Ti^TrT^f^rigTrf i 

=5r ^ i i 

Sloka 9. ‚Äî Rahu causes palpitation of the heart, 
leprosy, aberration of mind, danger from artificial 
poisoning, pain in the legs, trouble from goblins and 
serpents and ills to wife and children. Ketu indicates 
trouble through dispute with Brahmins and Kshatriyas, 
or from enemies. Mandi (Gulika) causes fear from (see- 
ing) corpses, poison, bodily pain and impurity (arising 
from the demise of one's near relations). 

^ IK¬Æ!! 



SI. 11 




145 


Sloka 10, If the 12th and the 2nd houses be occu- 
pied by the Moon and the Sun, being conjoined with 
or aspected by Saturn and Mars, the person born will 
suffer from eye-disease. The 3rd and the 11th houses 
and Jupiter if associated with or aspected by Saturn 
and Mars will cause ear-disease to the native. Mars 
(a malefic) in the 5th house in conjunction with the 
lord of the 6th or the 8th house will make the native 
suffer from belly-ache. Similarly the lords of the 8th 
and the 6th houses if posited in the 7th and the 8th 
along with malefics will bring about rectal disease. 
Venus under the above conditions will make the per- 
son born suffer from a disease in the private parts 
(venereal disease.) 

^ grof 

^ :rr#r 

ii^ ¬ª ii 

Sloka i/.‚ÄîIf the 6th or the 8th house be occupied 
by the Sun, there would be fear of fever; if by Mars 
or Ketu, the danger will be from ulcer ; if by Venus, it 
will be through a disease in the private parts. It 
Jupiter should occupy the 6th or the 8th house, the 
native will be seized with consumption. If Saturn be 
in such a position, the native will suffer from nervous 
diseases. If Rahu aspected by Mars be in the 6th or 
the 8th, the person concerned will suffer from carbun- 
cle. If Saturn in conjunction with the Moon occupy 
any of the above two houses, the native will suffer 
from the enlargement of spleen. If the waning Moon 
occupy any of the above houses identical with watery 
signs, in conjunction with a malefic, the person will 
suffer from a watery disease or consumption. 

Note : ‚Äî -In all those oases j^reat care should be used in inakiiiij 
predictions. Common sense and oxpjrionco arc to used guide :i. 



M<j Adh- XiV 

srierT iT‚Äôssf^ %?r srs^^^ssr 

^!*isr#^K3rr5!r5rT ^rrq‚Äôfesn^r^^oT ^ 

Trkr^sr ^3‚ÄòrBr^rtir‚ÄôTr^r Jjrf sr^ferkrTii; ii I ^ii 

Shka 12. I now proceed to explain the manner iti 
which a person meets with his death, and the cause of 
the same. If there are planets occupying or aspecting 
the 8th house, death is caused through diseases 
pertaining to the strongest of them ; or (if there be no 
planets occupying or aspecting the 8th house) through 
diseases declared for that house or for the house in 
which the lord of the 8th is placed; and (where the 
foregoing tests do not apply) it may be predicted with 
certainty that death will be caused either by the lord 
of the 8th house or by the lord of the 22nd decanate 
(counted from the Lagna decanate). 

rrwr ?^vii5rtf2.?iTt^3nrTT iir^ii 

Slok‚Äôj /o. -When the 8th house is occupied by a 
planet or aspected by one, death should be declared to 
be caused by diseases pertaining to that planet. When 
there are no planets occupying or aspecting the 8th 
house, death is caused through diseases declared as 
arising from the nature (or characteristics) of the Rasi 
representing the 8th house. 

3i¬ª?3TOT?5r^:n!rfr5T^TrfiiJra3r'sft 

^ V 

sprang jpr^r grr ^rfJr: iil¬´ii 

Slok j 14 . ‚Äî The Sun causes death through fire, high 
fever, bile or weapon. The Moon brings on death 
through cholera, watery diseases (such as 



147 


SI- 25-27 


Jalodara-ascitis) or pulmonary disease in general. The 
troubles caused by Mars for bringing about death are 
(accidental) fire, the employment of magical spells, 
witchcraft and weapons. The agency used 

by Mercury for the same purpose is anaemia, blood- 
lessness and similar diseai^es and giddiness. Jupiter 
will bring about death without much trouble or through 
phlegm, while Venus will do it through venereal 
complaints or similar ones caused by association with 
women. Saturn will bring it about by wind-disease 
or a dangerous fever like typhoid. 

?:T|ra'TrsTS!i i 

^T^rf II V'.ii 

Sloka 15. ‚Äî Rahu will bring about death by leprosy, 
by eating food mixed with poison, by venomous biles, 
or by small-pox and the like. Ketu will cause unnatu- 
ral deaths such as suicide, or assassination as a result 
of the hatred of enemies or through worms etc. 

Sloka 16, ‚Äî One ought to predict death through the 
bad (detrimental) effect arising from the 8th house 
reckoned from the Lagna or through the evil effect of 
the Rasi representing the Navamsa occupied by the 
lord of the 8th house. 

' Sloka i7.‚Äî If Mesha should happen to be such a 
Rasi (see previous Sloka\ death will be due to bilious 
fever, heat, and liver or gastric disease. If it be Vrisha- 
bha, death will be due to vitiation ox derangement gf 



HS Adb. XIV 


the three humours of the body, through fire, or 
weapon; if Mithuna, by catarrah, asthma, or sharp pain 
such as colic ; if Karkataka, by insanity windy-disease 
or loss of appetite anorexia). 

Shka 18.‚Äî li Simha be the Rasi under consideration, 
death should be declared to be due to wild beasts, 
fever, boils, or enemies ; if Kanya, it will be through 
women, venereal disease, or by a fall (from a height); 
if Tula, by brain fever and typhoid ; and if Vrischika, 
by disease of the spleen, jaundice, and sprue. 

fTTir g III**.!! 

Shka 19 . ‚Äî If Dhanus be the Rasi under reference, 
death will be due to a tree, water, wood or weapon. If 
the Rasi be Makara, death will be by stomach-ache, 
want of appetite or aberration of mind, etc.,^. If 
Kumbha, it will be by cough, fever and consumption ; 
lastly, if Meena be the Rasi concerned, death will be 
by drowning or by some watery diseases such as 
ascitis (sRrt^^'Jalodara). 

<^¬´TIr!IVTt; IRo|l 

Shka 20. ‚Äî When the 8th house happens to be own- 
ed by a malefic planet (and is also malefic) and be 
occupied also by a malefic, or a malefic asterism be 
there, death will be due to weapon, fire, tiger or snAke, 
If two malefics being in Kendras aspect each other, the 
native will meet with his death through the displeasure 
qI his sQVereign or thrqugh a weapon, poison or by fire . 



149 


Si. 21-23 

#Tq-^T3rf¬´rJt ^T I 

3%5T3n?f JT?:W ^T^rTOTT cT^T I1R?I1 

Sloka 21 . ‚Äî If at a person's birth, the 12th house or 
its lord be in a house or Nayamsa owned by a benefic 
or be associated with a benefic, 'his death will be a 
happy one being free from any anguish or suffering. If 
otherwise, it will be painful. 

o?T?Tlf^^ I 

5/oA'a 22.‚Äî If the lord of the 12th house occupy his 
exaltation, a friendly house or a Varga of a benefic 
planet or be associated with a benefic planet, the (life 
of the) person concerned will be going upwards to 
heaven. If it be otherwise, he will be going to perdi- 
tion or hell. Some interpret this as a result of the 
the nature of the Rasi (of the 12th house) ; /. e., heaven 
if a (Sirshodaya) one and hell if a 

(Prjshtodaya) one. 

5cl^#rr3j; ir^sfr niff 

g fijrn ^rnn'T^ririftrn: 

IR3-II 

Sloka 23. ‚Äî The refuge of the departed is signfied by 
the planet associated with the lord of the 12th, by one 
posited in the 12th house or by the one occupying the 
Navamsa of the 12th Bhava. If the Sun and the Moon 
be such planets, the future world indicated is Kailasa ; 
if the planet in question be Venus, it is Swarga (Heav- 
en, or Indra's Paradise) ; if Mars be such planet, it is 
the Earth ; if it be Mercury, the native goes to 
Vaihuntha ; if Saturn, the future abode will be Yama's 





Adh. XIV 


UO 


world ; if it be Jupiter, the native goes to Brahmaloka ; 
if it be Rahu, He goes to other islands ; and if it be 
Ketu, the native's next abode will be Hell. 

IP.yil 

Sloka 24.‚Äî ‚ÄúIt is the lord of the 9th house that gives 
all about the native's past birth, while 4II information 
about his future birth is revealed by the planet owning 
the 5th. The particular caste, the country and the quar- 
ter or direction of the individual in his past and future 
births should be guessed from the two respective 
planet^s referred to above. 

ir^ii 

Sloka 25, ‚Äî If the planets referred to above be in 
their exaltation, the particular world indicated should 
be declared to be the one occupied by the Gods. If they 
occupy depression or inimical houses, it indrcates 
foreign islands. If the planets be in their own, Jriend's 
or neutral's houses, then the abode in question should 
be guessed as India alone. 

5w?nT^: t 

j \\'<\\\ 

Sloka 26. ‚Äî The country pertaining to Jupiter is 
Aryavarta (name of the tract extending from the Eastern 
to the Western ocean and bounded on the North and 
South by the Himalaya and Vindhya respectively). 
Venus and the Moon indicate tracts watered by the 
sacred rivers. Mercury represents all sacred places. 
Saturn signifies prohibited tracts like those occupied 



151 


51 . 27-29 


by foreigners, while the Sun indicates mountain and 
forest regions, and Mars, the country of Behar. 

fl?irtfnRr¬ªT?T: Hqrrq': ^ i 

f^5ymf^3r?Jr sfrsigrr: \\?}s\\ 

Sloka 27.-11 the planets* (referred to in sloka 24 
Supra Le., lords of the 9th and 5th) occupy a fixed Rasi 
or Amsa identical with a Prishtodaya and an 
(Adhomukha) Rasi (vide 7‚Äî8 supra) along with malefics, 
the past and the future births of the native should be 
declared as trees, plants and the like. If otherwise, /. e)., 
if the lords of the 9th and 5th houses occupy a Sirsho- 
day a and an (Urdhvamukha) Rasi identical 

with a (Chara) or moveable Rasi or Amsa with 

benefics, the birth should be of an animal kind. 

SIoKCi 23 . ‚Äî If the lord of the 9th or the 5th house 
occupy exaltation, or Swakshetra or the house of a 
friend of the lord of the Lagna, then it should be 
declared that the native's previous or the future 
birth ( as the case may be ) must be that of a 
human being. If the Rasi occupied be that of 
a neutral (HJT-Sama) to the lord of the Lagna, the 
birth concerned will be that of a beast. It will be that 
of a bird, if the Rasi be that of an inimical or depression 
one. All these may also be declared with reference to 
the appearance of the decanates occupied by the pla- 
nets owning the 9th or the 5th. 



152 Adh. XV 

Sloka 29 .‚Äî It the said two planets be together in one 
house, the native should have had his birth in his own 
place. If they be of equal strength, the births (past and 
future) will be in the same caste. The colour and quali- 
ty will also be similar to those belonging to the lords 
of the 9th and the 5th houses. Predictions regarding 
all the rest, should be similarly made by a reference to 
what has been stated in the (Samgnadhyaya 

Thus ends the 14th Adhyaya on "Diseases, Death, 
Past and Future Births" in the work Phaladeepika 
composed by Mantreswara. 


wm: ‚ÄôEiii gvrqfrTjm ett 

55?%: II 'll 

ADHYAYA XV. 

Sloka 1 . ‚Äî All Bhavas will produce completely their 
good results if they are occupied or aspected by 
benefics or their own lords, or planets owning bene- 
fic Bhavas and are free from association or aspect 
of malefics. The same will be the result in the case of 
malefics if they happen to be the owners of the Bhavas 
concerned. This good effect will be ensured in the 
case of all the planets when they are not occupying 
depression signs, when they are not eclipsed and when 
they are not posited in inimical signs. 

q‚ÄôTtTRT i 



5l. 5-4 


153 


WWTJTf 5%inf : %rJI0n5t 

cr¬´n iijivn^^^TJnq; irii 

Sloka 2.‚Äî Astrologsrs proaounce the strength of a 
Bhava such as the Lagna to be ample and the Bhava 
thoroughly beneficent, when a Trikona, the 2nd, the 
4th, the 7th and the 10th places therefrom are occupied 
by auspicious planets or the VTf^cr (the lord of the Bhava) 
and are unoccupied and unaspected by malefic planets- 
A Bhava suffers decay when the positions referred to 
above are differently occupied and aspected. The 
effect of a Bhava will be mixed when pc^sitions noted 
above axe occupied or aspected by benefic and malefic 
planets promiscuously. 

‚ÄôTrft 1 

5T?rr7^?r %ri^ 

q>55-ir^t 5T % gr¬ªTsi5Tr:[rg?rjr5: ii?ii 

Sloki 2. ‚Äî Oi the Lagna and other Bhavas examined 
in succession, whichever Bhava has its lord occupying 
the 8th place or obscured by the solar rays or in depres- 
sion or in an inimical house while no benefic planets 
aspect or are associated with it, the result is the total 
destruction of such a Bhava. The bhava will be incap* 
able of producing any good effect even if a benefic 
other than its lord similarly circumstanced occupy the 
Bhava ; if a malefic should be in that position, the total 
destruction of the Bhava would be the result. 

qprcj^^irrs: iiyii 

Sloka 4. ‚Äî Malf fic3 posited in the 6th, 8th and 12th 
places counted from the Lagua or other Bhava under 



154 Adh. XV 


consideration cause the destruction of the said Bhava* 
Benefics in such a position are not capable of producing 
good effects for the Bhava. So say the astrologers with 
respect to the several Bhavas. 

JT5ri‚Äô^m?nr iiMii 

Slok'j 5. ---When a Bhava has its lord in the 6th, the 
8th or the 12th, or is occupied by the lord of any of 
these three, it suffers annihilation, say those that know 
the properties of a Bhava. If such a Bhava be aspected 
by a b‚Äôenefic planet, it will be in a flourishing condition. 

^ ^ wakwa^ 

TITTr?T:5f'4 ^ i 

¬ªTitr‚Ç¨fig:?3J3[f3s?rq-vrg[^im^arr^‚Ç¨mi^¬´jfrgT 
srt^‚ÄôTi syq'fgt r3'r5r^cni^¬•risn?i;ii?,st 

!'>ioka 6. ‚ÄîA Bhava sulfar annihilation when the 
Bhava itself, its lord and its Karaka are devoid of 
strength and are hemmed in betwixt malefics, or are 
associated with or aspecled by malefic or inimical 
planets and not by others ; or if the 4th, the 8th and 
the 12th houses or the 5th and the 9th houses from 
them be occupied by malefics. This will be all the 
more clear and evident when any two or are three of 
the conditions specified above synchronise. 

?f^rT^T5i:r¬ªr%>Jr7:?ir?:V^TtTTi 

5Ti^(^i5iT^TJr¬ªn vrj?T;n?[rsr^r: i 

‚ÄôTiqrr ¬´Tfsr*|f r?T; f^5T^wr?rTf: 5j¬ª7y: 

#¬Æy^wr: vrisrjry‚Äôi^i:^ vyr^y^CT Bif^yy^y. tivsii 

Sioka 7. ‚Äî In the case of any Bhava, the following 
^lapets cause the destiuction of the Bhava during their 



SI. H-U 


‚Äô7^?rTS^=TT‚Äô!i: 


155 


Dasa periods. (1) the lord of the 8th house reckoned 
from the Bhava (B) the lord of the 22nd Drekkana 
counted from the bhava, (3, 4 and 5) planets posited 
in the 6th, the 8th and the 7th houses counted from 
the Bhava, if they are weak. Malefics occupying 
the 3rd, the 6th and the 11th houses and benefics 
in houses which happen to be Kendra and Trikona ones* 
all reckoned from the concerned Ehiva, as also the 
planets which are friendly to the planet owning the 
Bhava, are .declared to bring success to the bhava 
(during their respective Dasasj if they are possessed of 
strength. 

'TfTT^liRrTi^JTft ill'll! 

Sloka 8 ‚Äî The lords of the 3rd house from the Lagna 
as well as the Moon, the planet occupying, as well as 
the one aspecting the 8th house, Saturn, the lord of the 
22nd decanate, the planet owning the sign occupied 
by-Mandi, the planets owning the Basis and Amsas 
occupied by the several aforesaid planets, Rahu when 
weak by being posited in untoward houses (the6tlt 
the 8th or the 12th) or in conjunction with or aspected 
by malefics ; each one of these‚Äî is declared as causing 
the destruction of the Bliava in its respective Dasa- 
period. 

^ftTTSTm slfiTTn 

Shka 9.‚Äî Whichever Bhava is occupied by the lord 



156 




Adh XV 


of the Lagna, the prosperity or well-being of that Bhava 
is assured. Note the houses owned by the planet asso- 
ciated with or aspecting the lord of the Lagna. It is 
only the effects of these Bhavas that will be pushed on 
by the lord of the Lagna. If the lord of a Bhava occupy 
a fl^'isstthana‚Äî 6th,‚Äò 8th or 12th) ¬©ff^ct will 

be reverse ; i. e , if the planet be yjeaV., the effect will 
bo immensely harmful ; if strong, the injury will be 
slight. 


'-d 

'j‚ÄôErim 51 ^:% rTfaim 


Sloka 10 . ‚Äî The lord of the Lagna though malefic 
will only promote the growth of the Bhava it occupies. 
If he should also happen to own any of the ^:^VJT5T (Dus- 
stthanas 6th, 8th, 12th), the effect of his ownership of 
the Lagna alone will predominate and not that of the 
other one. For example, if Mars owning the Lagna, 
occupy Simha or Meena identical with the 5th house 
and be aspected by a benefic, astrologers declare that 
the person concerned will beget sons very soon 


¬ªTS3T5:RfiT^nTTiqf?I¬ª^ 


Sloko II In the case of a planet owning two houses, 

that house which happens to be the Moolatrikona on¬© 
will predominate and its effects alone will be felt in 
full while the effects of his own house will be half. The 
effects of both the Bhavas will come to pass in the Dasa 
of the plaaet, the first half of the Dasa-period being 



31. i2-14 


157 




monopolised by the effects of the Bhava that comes 
first in order. This is the opinion of some. There are 
othexs who hold that a planet posited in an odd house 
will have the effect of that house felt first while the one 
that occupies an even house will have its effect in the 
first half of the Dasa. 

?Trrr¬ªn% 

Sljkc: 12 . ‚Äî The destruction ci each of the Bhavas 
irom the Laqna onwards should be predicted by the 
astrologer to a querist dur.mg the Dasa-periods of planets 
which are very inimical to the planet owning the parti* 
cular Bhava, or which occupy houses where there are 
no benefic dots in their Ashtakavargas- 

5r^,f5TTI% iir-H 

Sloka 12.-- A planet may be in his exaltation or may 
occupy a friendly house and may be endowed with the 
6 kinds of strength. Notwithstanding all Jhis, if he 
should happen to be in a Bhavasandhi, he becomes 
ineffective. This should first be noted before predicting* 
the effects of the Dasas and Bhuktis of planets. 

m%3 i 

'Kw ?nR?r ?TT^5Trr^ ¬ª 

Sloka 14,‚Äî In the several Bhavas. the planets that 
occupy the exact degrees, etc., signified by any parti- 
cular Bhava produce the full effect of that Bhava. When 
a planet is in a Bhavasandhi, it produces no effect. In 
the case of planets occupying intermediate positions, 
the effect must be ascertained by a rule-of'thre¬© 
pieces 3. 



158 




Adh. XV 


%5TsrHTT3T;rfft^¬´T??B?:srf^m; 1 

^n-goTT^jrr^rf^frj^ffftf^n^ism 

Sloka 15,‚Äî A person ought to divine about his own 
self, father, influence, health, vigour and fortune from 
the Sun, It is the Moon that determines the character 
of one's heart, understanding, royal favour, mother and 
affluence. It is through Mars that ^a person can 
ascertain his own courage, disease, characteristic 
qualities, younger brothers, lands, foes and blood* 
(paternal) relations. It is Mercury that influences one's 
learning, relatives in general, discrimination, maternal 
uncle, friends, speech and action, 

^^iir‚Ç¨r Rr<TiTrt l mmiri i^fcT^ri: 11 

Sloka 26 , ‚Äî One ought to conjecture about one's 
own genius, wealth, physical development, sons and 
knowledge by referring to Jupiter. Information regard* 
ing one's wife, vehicles, ornaments, love affairs and 
pleasures is to be sought through Venus. It is Saturn 
that settles a person's period of life, livelihood, the 
cause of death, his adversity and his servants. One 
ought to guess about one's paternal grand-father 
through Rahu, and about the maternal grand-father 
through Ketu. 

^ITfnlT5n:JI!=^ 

wf 5‚Äô5r: 1 



Si. 18-1^ 




159 


Sloka 17 . ‚Äî The Karakas of the Bhavas beginning 
with the Lagna or the rising sign are (1) the Sun (2) 
Jupiter (3) Mars (4) the Moon and Mercury (5) Jupiter 
(6) Saturn and Mars (7) Venus (8) Saturn (9) the Sun 
and Jupiter (10) Jupiter, the Sun, Mercury and Saturn 
(11) Jupiter and (12) Saturn. 

Fcrqdrf k 

i'loka iS, ‚Äî The fullness or otherwise of the effects 
of planets occupying the 12 houses, viz., Lagna, 
2nd, 3rd, e/c., must be judged by a consideration of the 
exact nature of the sign occupied by the planet, /.e-, 
whether it is a friendly or an inimical sign or the 
house oi l neutral planet, or whether the planet in 
question is occupying his own, or his exaltation Rasi. 
Satyacharya, however, says that benefics posited in 
anV house generally promote the advancement or 
prosperity of that house while malefics in any house 
work only its decay. This is reversed in the case of 
the 6th, the 8th and the 12th houses 

TTTar?-!; ^c?:?Tf?cr i 

% ?Twi^i55q'if^vTr3t?!a'T:"'rsTon5T: 

Sloka Malefics posited in the 6th, the 8th and 
the 12th houses promote the evil effects of the Bhavas, 
while benefics in the same houses cause the destruc- 
tion of the said* Bhavas. Hence the destruction of the 
evil effects arising cut of these three houses, should be 
declared 

Notes*. ‚ÄîThe author oi¬ªine3 that the i^eiiei al principal to bo 
observed is that benetics in jjood houses promote their good effects 



160 Adh. XV 


and in inauspicious houses spoil thoir evil etYecfcs, while malefics 
in good bouses spoil thorn and in i)ad houses croafco untold 
sufferings. 

‚ÄôTjcj =er ct 5r?rl?iirr i 

Sloka 20 . ‚Äî WhenBver the effects of any Bhava are 
to be determined in the case of a nativity, that Bhava 
should be considered as the Lagna and the effects of the 
12 houses reckoned therefrom such as 1st (form), 2nd 
(wealth), etc., should be examined and declared. 

IT# ff ftrgsj mg^ i 

S.oka 21r-ln the same way should the efiects of the 
father; the mother, the brother, the maternal uncle, the 
son, the husband and the servant be determined by 
treating the signs occupied by their respective Karakas, 
viz., the Sun, the Moon, and other planets, in the 
nativity as the Lagna (Ascendant). 

3 cTrsi^mij; i 

Sloka Find the house occupied by the Sun. It 
is from this that one ought to conjecture all about the 
appearance ol the father of the person concerned. The 
father's prosperity and renown should be divined from 
the 2nd house counted from that occupied by the Sun. 
His brothers, character, etc., must be ascertained from 
the 3rd house reckoned from the Sun. All about his 
father's mother, father's happiness, etc., should be 
sought for from tha 4th house (from the Sun). 

'Tgrc'fti'r fggfiTim: ^ i 

¬´EiiT nm g J 

Shka 2:^.‚Äî -The father's intelligence and tranquillity 



SI. ^i-26 




ifi! 


oi mind should be deduced from the 5th house (from 
the Sun); his sufferings, injury, enemies and disease 
should be guessed from the 6th house; his love and 
passion from the 7th house, his misery, death and his 
longevity should be determined from the 8th house 
(from the Sun). 

?rr?T?r?: g^rsr i 

3L)kj jJ. ‚Äî All about the father's leiigiou s merih 
auspicious works and his iallier should be sought, foi 
from the 9th house (from the bua\: his occupation from 
the 10th house ; his gains or uicome from ihc. liili 
and his expenditure or los^ liom liic 12bi house (from 
the Sun). The eliects of the 12 Bhavas countesi from 
the Moon, Mars, etc, (for i!ie mother, brother c. ‚Äò.c j 
should be similaily deduced. 

Sloka 23 ‚Äî Ail details about the mother, bvoihc*/, 
father, son, etc,, o! a Bhava should tlius be divined bv 
d .refererica to the particular Bhava and its KcnaUa 
When any Bhava, its iojd and its Karsdoi a: j a!! 
strong, one ought to predict good effects (happiness 
for that Bhava. 

! 

Sl'o/cc 2s3. ‚Äî But others say that tho Sun in the Qi ‚Äôp 
the Moon in the 4th, Mars in the 3rd, Jupiter in the 
5th Venus in the 7th and Saturn in the Sth, will cause 
disaess to the Bhavas concerned. 



Adh. XV 



sy?i¬ªirTt t.^ < 

^1% cTft% *T?rvrT!% %5T *nir?T ii^v^sii 


Shka 27.‚Äî The lord ol the Lagna produces the 
eiiects j!)ertaining to the Bhava with whose lord he is 
conjoined, or the one occupied by him. If the Bhava 
or its lord be strong, goodwill result from that Bhava; 
ii weak, one has to expect only untoward things. 

gvr ra?T;s^ 53 - 1 

jq?5?!7t ?r^#t5r¬•rR¬ªTra¬ªTi 

f?rmf^7frH^qgR.rf ii'-'<ii 

kioka Whatever Bhavas contain a number oi 

benelic dots in the Aslitakavarga of the lord of the 
Lagna, the effects derived from these iiouses will be 
happy if the respective ovvners thereof are strong and 
are associated with the lord of the Lagna. Wherever 
there are a less number of such dots, the lord of the 
Lagna causes adverse effects if he be associated with 
the owners of these houses and if they are also Weak. 
In the same way should all the Bhavas be judged. 

^T?3!Tcr I 

oluka .^9.‚Äî If the lord of a ^:?'>T[rr (Dussthana) should 
occupy another house of his own, ha will produce (in 
Ills Dasa) the effects cf only tha^ house occupied by 
Jiim as (Swaksheira) and not the effects due to 

the (DiisHthand). For example, if Saturn should 

occupy Makara idoatical with the 5th Bhava, there will 



SI. 30-1 in.l 

be the acquisition of sons, and the untoward effects 
due as owner of the 6th house will not happen. 

m trisrsr^l^ fftrc: 115,011 

Ttjn ii 

Sloka 30. When two planets mutually occupy each 
the other s sign ; when two planets are together in one 
and the same house ; when two planets are mutually 
aspecting each other; when two planets are occupying 
mutually Kendra positioiiSi /. e., when they are 90' 
apart ; when two planets are so situated that one is in 
Trikona position to the other^ /. e., when they are trine 
or 120 apart ; the above are the kinds of connections 
recognised between the said two planets. 

Thus ends the 15th Adhyaya on the "Method of 
studying the effects of the Bhavas" in the work 
Phaladeepika, composed by Mantreswara. 

ii?ii 

ADHYAYA XVI. 

Sloka /.-‚ÄúThe native will correspond in mein to the 
lord of the rising Navamsa, or his appearance will be 
like that of the planet that has the greatest strength. 
His hue will be like that of the lord of the Navamsa 
occupied by the Moon. His body and limbs will be 
commensurate in their proportions with the rising sign 



Adh. X\ 1 


1 

and other Rahils wLicL die described as foiming the 
head and other portions of (Kalapursha). 

5r^i{t^R ^RTiffr 5?^ li^Ji 

SJoka 2.- Ti the lord of the Lagna ocoupy a Kendra 
or a Kona with clear rays (uneclipsed) in exaltation or 
Swakshetra, v/lien the lord :)f the 8tli house is posited 
in a house other than a Kendra and v/hen the Lagna is 
oacnpied hy b. benefic, the person born will be Icng^ 
lived, rich, honoured endowed with good qualities, 
will be praised by kings, lortunate, possess beauti¬´ 
tul limbs, l^e of good physique, fearless, virtuously 
disposed and will have a good and happy family, 

!TT?7i:i%5r Fq^5TTfT^T*l^T=!T: I 

T^rzq I'idi 

'bh:: . . --If the lord of the Lagna be v/ell asso- 
ciated, the person boin will live in 3 good village or 
Amidst good cissccidiions. When the associ ^ited planet 
13 s'rong, he will be under the patronage of a renov;n‚Äò 
(:d king. When the said pLinet is in hi * exaltation, 
th‚Ç¨^ person will become a king, H the planet should bo 
in his own house, the person will live in his own 
native place. He will always be on his legs if the 
planet be in a moveable house. He will be stationary 
in one place if the planet be in a fixed sign. The effect 
vvill be mixed if in a dual sign. 



SI 4-5 




165 


i%¬ª?7T?r: crg^r 

^5??T^ 3ficr?^ 5tfi:‚Äô^‚Äô5¬•^?^??t 

f^^rft vr^^ig^: iiyii 

SJoka 4 . ‚Äî If at the birth of a person, the lord of the 
Lagna be of brilliant rays, he will become famous; 
ii the planet . be well-placed, the person will be 
happy and prosperous. But if he should occupy a 
(Dasstthana), be in the house of a malefic or 
an enemy or occupy his depression sign, the native 
will be miserable and will live in a despicable place. 
Reside amidst outcasts or vile j^eopie. If the Lagna is 
strong, the person concerned will live happy, thrive 
well and will come to power and prominence. But 
if the Lagna be without strength, the man will con- 
stantly be overcome by calamities, be sad and will 
suffer from disease. 

Sloka the lord of the 2nd house be posited 

in the Lagna and benefics occupy the 2nd house, the 
person concerned will be endowed with the best 
qualities, have a prosperous family, will be rich, 
affable, and far-sighted. If the planet owning the 2nd 
Bhava be connected with the Sun (v/c/^ XV-30, supra), 
th‚Ç¨J native will utilize his for the good of humanity. 
Knowledge and wealth. If the association of the said 
Lord is with Saturns the person's learning will be very 
insignificant and of a low order 





Adh- XVI 


\(>(\ 


^r'F.TTI'T^Kr ftt57^ r7: 

¬´Tr^5ar 

Shjka 6. ‚ÄîIf tbe planet associated be Jupiter, the 
person concerned will become proficient in the 
sacred scriptures and code of laws; if it be Mercury, he 
will be clever in politics ; if Venus, he will be an expert 
in amorous topics ; if the Moon, he v/ill know some* 
thing of the arts ; if Mars, he will be an adept in works 
involving hard labour and will be a back-biter; if 
Rahu, he will be lisping or stammering (will speak 
indistnctly) ; if Ketu, Ijo will stammer and utter false- 
hoods. If maleficB occupy the 2nd house, the person 
concerned will be a fool and without wealth. 

77 7 51(7 7I7tc!I7 Il'Sll 

Sloka 7. -‚ÄúIf the lords of the 3rd house and of the 
Lagna be connected (vid~ XV-30, supro) by their mutual 
exchange of places and be also strong, the native will 
be brave, valorous, and helpful to his brothers ; he 
will also be capable of accomplishing daring acts. 

t 5^ ^R%sRr i 

vr^F^ eV^irm: \}c\\ 

Sloka 8. ‚Ä¢ If the lord of the 3rd house be strong and 
be associated with a benefic and if the Karaka of the 
Bhava Mars) be strong and also posited in a benefic 
house, the prosperity of the brothers is indicated. But 
should he be weak or badly placed, there will be loss 
of brothers. 





167 


51- lO-ll 


Sloka 9.‚Äîli both the Karaka and the lord of the 
3rd Bhava be posited in odd Basis and be aspected 
by Jupiter, the Sun and Mars, and if the 3rd house also 
happen to be an odd sign, the native will have as many 
brothers as are revealed by the Navamsa. 

g-f^r^r i-gv 

mg: ??frT^r-7^Tfrgisril ii>¬´>ii 

.S^o^r ; iC‚Äô‚Äîit at a birth, the lord of the 4th house as 
v/ell as the Moon occupy a (Diisstlhana-Gfh, 

8th or 1 2th) and be devoid of conjuncMon or aspect 
oi bciieiicj, or, bvC heramed in between malefics, be 
also aspected by or conicined a malefic, the result v/ill 
he the death of the mcAher. But, should the above two 
planet:; be strong and be associated with or aspected 
by benafics, and it benefics be posited in the 4th 
house, the Yoga will conduce to ilie mother's happi 
ness. The happiness ol the mother should be de- 
clared by a reference to the benelic:^ occupying 
fci'vourable places reckoned from the Moon or if they 
aspect each other or are conjoined. 

b/ohi /i.‚Äîff the lord of the Lagna occupy the 4th 
house or the lord of the latter be in the Lagna if the 
Moon should have the aspect either of these, the 
person born v/ill certainly perforin the mother s funeral 
rites But if theoe two planets be posited in the inimi 
cal or depression signs '.d each otheior the 6ui and 
the 8th houses and are not in any way connected ( Wc/a 



iGS Adh. XVI 

XV-T'O, sjpra) witli each other (either by association or 
aspect), the person will not be able to do the last 
funeral rites for the mother at the time of her demise, 

Sloka 12. ‚Äî ^Just as what has been said about the 
mother from the 4th Bhava, similar remarks should be 
made in the case of the father, brothers and sons from a 
reference to the respective Bhavas, Karakas of the 
Bhavas concerned, the planet o ‚Äô.vein o ilu' Bh iva. the 
Lagna and ils lord. 

'ir7?'TriS':]T>i‚Äôf ‚Ä¢ 

Sioka / '".--The lord of the 4fh and Venus, 

if well placed, in the Lagna and toe ‚Äò-itii house, will 
confer on the native the Isonor ot a palanquin 

as his vehicle, ir:'rdship and king^vliip ; they will 
also lead to the acquisition to the native of gold 
and the like, silk, castly jewels, orniments, bed, 
and such other appendages as will faciiitate sexual 
gratification, cows, elephants and horses. 

nv^ii 

Sloka 14. If the lord of the 4th house be in a 

Dusstthana 6th, 8th or 12 -hi or conjoined vvrith the Sun, 
and Mars, or ii the 4th hoa;>e be occupied by Mars and 
the Sun, the houo.e where ibe native was bora or 
conjoined with will be burnt. If Rahu or Saturn be 
in the 4th with its lord the house will be old and 
dilapidated. If fhe 4th or its lord occupied by an 
inimical planet, tho native's belongings such as the 



SI. 15-17 *rt^5rt‚Äôi¬´Tra: 

cows, lands, vehicles, etc., will be usurped by his 
enemies. 

m ?T#5'¬´rT 1 

ii v^n 

Sloka ‚Äî the 5th Bhava be identical with a Rdsi 
or Amsa owned by Mercury fa benefic) or occupied by 
that planet, th^ person born v/ili be intelligent and 
open-hearted. , The same will be the case if the lord of 
the Sth house is well posited and has attained a 
(Vaiseshikamsa). 

?JT m ft 5^^ 3^Tr?T; ! 

fr'j'jrr tfri't 7FJiJ5rJT<Trrf(-Vf ra?rffT iir&n 

Sloka i'6. -(1; Maiefics in the Sth, (2) the lord oi the 
Lagna in conjunction with or aspected by the lord of 
the Sth possessed of strength, (3) the same lord posited 
in. the Sth, (4) the lord of the Sth in a Kendra house 
and (5) in conjunction with or aspected by maiefics, 
will subject the native to constant and intense annoy- 
ance from enemies, which cannot be easily remedied. 

#^%sarTsf^ 

r-^irrT^vTF^^ftrrt 

Sloka 17 . ‚Äî If the lord ol the Lagna be stronger than 
the lord of the Sth house and be posited in the (Rasi or) 
Amsa of a benefic and also be aspected by a benefic 
and if the lord of the 4th endowed with strength 
occupy a Kendra or a Kona, the person born will be 
hale and healthy being endowed with a strong con- 
stitution and will enjoy all comforts and happiness. 



170 Adh- XVI 


?T^t3r5n^ 5r?r^ nicn 

Sloka 18‚Äî li at a birth the lord of the 6th house be 
in a (Dusstthana), identical with its depression 

or inimical sign or be eclips'ed by the Sun's rays and if 
the lord of the Lagna be stronger than him and if the 
Sun be in the 9th house, the destruction of the 
enemies of the native may be declared. 

is anothoi- roading. 

'['he translation will Iw ‚Äúand if the (iih house l)e oceu])iod hj- 
:i lioiK'lic, ilio dosti'LU^tioii of the oncinios of tlio nvitivo 

Sloka /9.‚Äî The following Bhavas : viz., (1) that own- 
ed by the planet associated with the lord of the 6th 
house (2) that occupied by the lord of the 6th and (3) 
that owned by the planet in the 6th‚Äî these Bhavas will 
prove inimical to the native concerned. 

Somo l)Ook5ri road for the second line. 

^#5^|?Tr iRoii 

Sloka 20.‚Äù If the 7th house be connected (vide XV- 
30, supra) with a benefic (either by association or 
aspect) and its lord be endowed with strength, the wife 
of the person born will be virtuously disposed, and 
will live happily with her husband, being blessed with 
children and endowed with all good qualities. 

stiRtI 5T gnrr^fkr?: iRlii 



1.71 


SI- 21-2^) 


S/oI:a 22.‚Äî Persons in whose nativities the lord of 
the 8th house is posited in a house other than a Kendra 
and is also weaker than the lord of the Lagna should be 
declared to be long-lived and free from anxieties, 
obstacles and miseries. 

nnq-JT‚Äôjq-TT^ ^Tsfr 

Sloka 22,-^li Mars or the Sun occupy the 9th house 
and the lord of the latter be in a (Dusstthana) or 

betwixt two malefics, the effect will be the demise of 
the father of the native soon after his birth- 

Noto: ‚Äî If the doatli does not fake place iiT!inediafe]y , i< itiay 
take place in the Dnsa of the Sun or Mars. 

f^^rr ^ ^5TT 575% ^^'4 i 

{^T: 3f?¬´TrTT IR?II 

Sloka 23 . ‚Äî If the Sun in the case of a day-birth or 
Saturn in the case of a night-birth be v/ell placed and 
aspected by benefics, and if the lord of the 9th be also 
strong, the father of the native will live for a long time. 

5iTf^ 5Tqriftsf?rT fenj: iRyii 

Sloka 24. ‚Äî If the two luminaries (the Sun and the 
Moon) be in trine to Saturn and Mars, the child will be 
abandoned by both the parents. But if they be 
aspected by Jupiter, the child will be long-lived and 
happy. 

Sloka 25.‚Äî If Saturn owning the 9th house occupy 
moveable sign and be unaspegted by benefics, or if 



172 




Adh. XVI 


the Sun be in a Dusstthana, the child concerned lives 
under the care of a foster-father. 

UTrrt cTtfV 5r5r5Ti^f^ ip.'^ii 

Sloka 26. ‚Äî If the 9tb house or its lord being in a 
moveable sign is conjoined with or aspected by Saturn 
and if the lord of the 12th house be strong, the child 
born is sure to be adopted by another. 

jfvr^ %f3[^5T 

SJoka 27.--If a benefic planet occupy the 10th house 
and the lord of the latter in full strength be in a Kendra 
or Kona position identical with its Swakshetra or 
exaltation sign, or if the lord of the Lagna be in the 
10th, the person concerned will be revered by all, 
widely renowned, and disposed to do always virtuous 
deeds. His affluence will be similar to that of a king 
and he will be long-lived. 

^1^ srm‚ÄôTSTf ^ %5Tsj ?rf^ i 

IRCII 

SSI 

.jloka 28.- If the Sun or Mars occupy the 10th 
house, the native concerned will be a great and mighty 
personage and liked by the people If the lord of the 
10th house should also be well- placed, he will b¬ß able 
to accomplish great undertakings involving much 
valour and heroism. He will perform some benefical 
agts gomnrended by the good if the 10th house be 



SI. 29-31 




V 


173 


occupied by benefics. But if Rahu, Saturn and Ketu be 
posited in the 10th house, the result will be that the 
person concerned will do sinful and wicked acts. 

Sloka 29‚ÄîNote the follov/ing two Bhavas : (1) the 
Bhava owned by the planet associated with the lord of 
the 11th house and (2) the Bhava occupied by the lord 
of the 11th. The (gain) acquisition of things (or objects) 
connected by the Bhavas concerned may be predicted- 
A similar guess may be made also through planets 
occupying the 11th house. 

2/oi:a 30.-*‚ÄúNote the following two Bhavas: (1) the 
Bhava owned by the planet if any occupying the 12th 
house; (2) the Bhava occupied by the lord of the 12th. 
The loss of things connected by these two Bhavas 
should be predicted. 

II 11 

¬´Tr%5Tf^¬´RTvrf5T^:^¬´iriTf7 g ^rr 

^ ?T^f 

ii^¬ªn 

Sloka .97.‚Äî 'One ought to predict the success or 
acquisition of a Bhava (1) when the lord of the Lagna 
during his transit arrives at a sign which happens to 
be a Trikona sign to the Rasi or Amsa occupied by the 
lord -of the Bhava in question ; or (2) when he comes 
to the Bhava itself, or (3) when the lord of the Bhava 
transits a sign which is triangular to the sign or Amsa 
occupied by the lord of the Lagna, or (4) when ho 



174 Adh. XVI 

; ; 

comes to the Lagna itself, or (5) when the two lords (i.e., 
of the Bhava and the Lagna) come in conjunction or 
aspect each other. The same event may likewise be 
predicted when the Karaka of the Bhava in question 
comes during transit in conjunction with the lord of the 
Rasi containing the Lagna 6r the Moon. 

Sloka 32 . ‚Äî ^Find out the Rasi and Amsa occupied 
by the lord of the Bhava under cosideration. When 
Jupiter in his transit comes in trine to this Rasi or 
Amsa, the realisation of the (good) effect of the Bhava 
may be expected. 

Sloka 33.‚Äî Whenever the lords of the Lagna and the 
6th house come in conjunction, (while in transit) the 
enemy of the native will come under his control, if the 
lord of the 6th house is weaker than the lord of the 
Lagna. Otherwise, the contrary will be the result. 

57oi:a 3'^.‚Äî'Ih there should be enmity between the 
lord of a Bhava and that of the Lagna due to natural or 
temporal causes, or their being posited in the 6th and 
8th places with respect to each other, envy, rivalry or 
jealousy will arise to the native with the person denoted 
by the Bhava during the transit of these planets. But if 
there should be friendship-natural or temporary- 
between the aforesaid two planets, one ought to predict 
new friendship being formed when the planets also 
conjoin in their transit , 



SI. 35-1 


175 




?T^r <T5rr i 

*rT%5T^ gvnTf?i¬´n¬´is?nw ?5?sn2rftr ii3'^¬´ 

Tifirs5?:i%^%arT?TT qr:5r^w?Tt 
^?rTf^i'T5T¬´n^5rr ^5fi?r?T5r ^5fts¬´n?T: 

Sloka 35.‚Äî Whenever the lord of the Lagna comes 
in conjunction (while in transit) with the lord of any 
particular Bhava under consideration, the success (or 
gain) of the Bhava may be expected, if the lord of the 
Bhava be strong. Otherwise, the effect will be different. 
Similar scrutiny may also be made by reckoning from 
the Moon instead of from the Lagna. 

Thus ends the 16th Adhyaya on ''the general effects 
of the 12 Bhavas" in the work Phaladeepika 
composed by Mantreswara. 




II fjT‚ÄôimiT^^rwriT II 

JT'V II ^11 

ADHYAYA XVII. 


Sloko i. ‚Äî With respect to any Bhava, when Saturn 
in his transit should arrive at the Rasi and Navamsa 
occupied by the lord o the 8th or the 12th house 
reckoned from that Bhava. the total destruction of that 
Bhava should be expected. The same will be the case 
if Saturn transits houses that are triangular to these two 
houses 

II II 

3%^ JT?^: ? qr i 

qq crqT5Tf^3l 3 %: Rii 



Adb. XVII 




Sloka 2 , ‚Äî Ascertain the Rasi and Navamsa occupied 
by (1) the lord of the 8th house (2) Gulika (3) Saturn or 
( 4) the lord of the 22nd decanate (counted from that 
of the. Lagna). When Saturn transits that Rasi or 
Navamsa or its triangular position, death may happen. 

vir^r^ot 5^ gra: ti^n 

Sloka 3 . ‚Äî Find the lord of the decanate that is rising. 
Find also the lord of the 8th house as also that of the 
22nd decanate. When Jupiter transits the Rasi or 
Amsa occupied by any of these 3 planets, or its 
triangular position, death may take place. 

srt iiyii 

Sloka - -When the Sun transits (1) the Rasi that 
represents his own Dwadasamsa (2) the Navamsa Rasi 
occupied by the lord of the 8th house, or l3) the 
Navamsa Rasi occupied by the lord of the Lagna or 
their Trikona positions, death may be expected. 

is anoiilior roadiii^ in the 2iui line. Aceorclin^^ to thidu 
'lupitor takes the place ol the Sun. 

Sloka 5 . ‚Äî When the Moon transits the Rasi or 
Navamsa occupied by the lord of the 8th house or the 
Sun or their triangular house, death may take place. 
All these (the above stated) should be considered 
with reference to the Lagna or the Moon. 

aria^^rwr i 



SI. #r8 




lU 


Sloka 6. ‚Äî Subtract the figures of Yamakantaka from 
those of the lord of the rising sign. Subtract the figures 
of the Moon from those of Saturn. Find out the Rasi 
and its Navamsa indicated by each of these differences* 
When Jupiter transits the Rasi or Navamsa indicated 
in either of these results or their Trikona position, the 
native's death will take place. Subtract the figures for 
Mars from those of Rahu. When Jupiter comes to 
occupy the Navamsa or the Rasi thus indicated by the 
difference, the death of a brother may happen. 

vrrJTt: 

rTr?ft 1 

3T#%?5^fT5T^<Jr3T55Cr =g-'^TJTITf^Trrr3T 

Sloka 7. ‚Äî Subtract the figures for Yamakantka from 
those of the Sun. When Jupiter transits the Rasi or 
its Navamsa thus found or its triangular position, the 
death of the father may happen. Subtract the figures 
for Mandi from those of Yamakantaka. When Saturn 
transits the Rasi or Navamsa thus found or its 
triangular position, the same event may happen. Sub- 
tract the figures of the Moon from those of the Sun ; 
during Jupiter's transit through the Rasi or Navamsa 
thus indicated or its triangular position, the death of 
the mother may come to pass. The same event may 
also happen when Saturn passes through the Rasi or 
Navamsa indicated by subtracting the figures of Mandi 
from those of the Moon, or its triangular position. 

{m. qrr. xii-so). 

Sloka Subtract the figures of Yamakantaka from 



178 Adh XVII 

* * 

those of the planet ruling the 5th star reckoned from 
the natal one. When Jupiter transits the house indicat- 
ed by the result or its Trikona position, the son's death 
may be expected. 

II ^EirrscorRTtftqr: ii 

rr^T%Hr4 STTcT! 11*^11 

Sloka 9 , ‚Äî Find the house occupied by the lord of 
the sign indicated by the aggregate of the figures for 
the Lagna, the Sun and Mandi. When Jupiter arrives in 
his progress through the orbit at the Rasi found as 
above or in a triangular sign thereof; the native meets 
with his death. 

35%: i 

=gr ii?.o|| 

Sloka iO. ‚Äî Subtract the figures for Saturn from 
those of Mandi and find out the Rasi and its Navamsa 
indicated by the difference. When Saturn arrives at 
this Navamsa or the Rasi thus found or their triangular 
position, death will take place. The same event may 
also happen when Saturn arrives at the particular 
Drekkana of the particular Rasi indicated by the 
aggregate of the figures of the five Upagrahas reckoned 
from Dhuma. 

f5rq?nr^?3[T ^?T HUH 

Sloka 11 . ‚Äî Find out the Rasi and its Navamsa indi- 
cated by the sum- total of the figures for the Lagna and 
Mandi. The Rasi and its Navamsa, say the Astrologers, 
will give the clue to th.e particular month and the por- 



SI. 12-14 




17.9 


tion thereof in a year in which a person's death may be 
expected to happen ; (/. a., when the Sun arrives at this 
particular Rasi and the particular Navamsa thereof, the 
person will die). The Moon at the time of the decease 
will occupy the Rasi indicated by the total of the figures 
for Mandi and the Moon ; and the rising sign will be 
that denoted by the total of the figures for the Lagna 
Mandi and the Moon. 

Shka 12. ‚Äî Ascertain the Navamsa, the Dwadasamsa 
and the Drekkana indicated by the figures for Mandi. 
When Jupiter arrives at the Navamsa, Saturn at the 
Dwadasamsa and the Sun at a triangular sign from the 
Drekkana in question, and when the Lagna is the Rasi 
occupied by the lord of the sign denoted by the 
aggregate of the figures for the Lagna, the Moon and 
Man.di, death will take place. 

JTlf?^7?TVTT5TJT^ isi anotlior reading in tho 4th 

(Pada). The translation will be ‚Äúor when the Sun transits 
the Basi and Amsa denoted by tb^ aggregate of tho figures' 

55%; iilsii 

Sloka 13. ‚Äî Multiply by 9 the figures for Mandi and 
Saturn. Add the two products and find out the parti- 
cular Rasi and its Navamsa which the total indicates. 
When Saturn passes through this, death will happen. 

iiW'i 



Adh. XVIl 

Shka 14 . ‚Äî Subtract tlie figures of Yamakantaka from 
those of the lord of the riling sign and find out the Rasi 
and its Navamsa indicated by the difference. When 
Jupiter comes to occupy this Navamsa in the Rasi thus 
found, death will take place without doubt 

ill'll! 

0 

Sloka 15 . ‚Äî Find out the sign of tho zodiac indicated 
by the sum-total of the figures for the lords of the 6th, 
the 12th and the 8th Bhavas When Saturn is in this 
house or in a triangular' sign from it, death has to be 
apprehended. 

srr^ fW^orrrvj^t^q' II 

Sloka /G. ‚Äî Find the Rasi, etc., occupied by the lord 
of the decanate that is rising. When Jupiter transits 
this position or its Trikona, the native meets with death. 
When Saturn transits the house owned by the lord of 
the decanate of the 8th house, or its Trikona, the same 
event may be predicted. 

Sloka 17 . ‚Äî Find the weakest of the three sets of 
planets, v/,:., (1) the lord of (1) the 8th house and (2) 
the 22nd decanate, both counted from the Lagna and 
the Moon, and (3) the Moon and Mandi. When Saturn 
transits a Trikona position to the Navamsa of any of 
th9 above planets, death may happen. 



SI. 18-21 181 

rfi^jTf ^^?m:or?ft¬ªrJT%^?;Ti^?T^ntjrJ^5rJTf?Ti^r: 

Sloka 18 , ‚Äî Find the Rasi representing the Navam - 
sa occupied by the lord of the Lagna. See how far it is 
removed from Mesha. When Saturn transits a Rasi so 
far removed from the Rasi occupied by the lord of the 
8th house, death may happen, say those conversant 
with the ^various schools of astrology. 

??rTBrJT!n5T^^ JT^sftr i 
^?:nr ^dKOTT iil‚Äô^ii 

Sloka i.9.~Death may also happen when the Moon 
in her transit passes through the house occupied by 
the lord of the 22nd decanate counted from that of the 
Moon at the time of birth, or its Trikona posi- 
tion or through the Lagna Rasi, the 8th house or 
the 12th house. 

Bnsi%>ar?:¬ªTcR:nj?r 5 vri3¬ªTrT?:r^ 1 

f?Tf^.fjr^:nTJT iroii 

Sloka 2G . ‚Äî When the Sun passes through the Rasi 
occupied by the lord of the 8th house and the Moon, 
through the Rasi occupied by the Sun or through 
the asterism occupied by the lord of the 8th house, 
demise will happen. 

TrBnrf^WfT: ?T^fw5KtnriT^ I 
firfsTjrrm^rr iR¬ªii 

Sloka 2!.'‚Äî When Saturn transits (1) the Rasi that is 
triangular to the one occupied by Gulika in the case of 
those born in the night or (2) the 7th Rasi therefrom in 
tb? case of those born in the day, death may happen. 



Adh. XVII 


TTT^ mfft I 

^ 3 f^¬´i¬ªr nraT'?T??^Rr^nTnrfts¬´r^T ir'Rii 

Sloka 22. When Jupiter in his transit passes through 
the Rasi indicated by the sum of the figures for 
Jupiter and Rahu or through its trines, death may be 
apprehended. 

BrvTT‚ÄôTf?Tq‚Äô%f^¬´r?r3^ i 
<T^5rsr^nTFr^ ^nrnr ir^ii 

5 / 0 ( ) j3. When Saturn goes to the house occupied 
by the lord of the decanate of the 8th house from the 
Lagna, death may happen. The same event may be 
expected when Saturn passes through the Rasi owning 
the Navamsa occupied by the lord of the 8th house. 

?r;fl i 

iP.yii 

Sloka 24. When Saturn in his transit passes through 
the Rasi and Amsa occupied by him at birth or its 
trines, death may be expected. The same event may 
be apprehended when Saturn transits the Rasi and 
Amsa occupied by the lord of the sign occupied by 
the Moon at birth or of the 8th house or its trines. 

%^rrr 1 

Sloka 25.‚Äî If the birth be at night, death will happen 
when Saturn transits through the Rasi and Amsa occu- 
pied by the Moon or Mandi ; if the birth be at day, 
death may be expected when Saturn transits the Rasi 
and Amsa occupied by the sign or which is the 7th, the 
5th or the 9th from that occupied by the Sun. 

^ ^ rT?r: 1 

9 



SI. 26 




18S 


Shka 26 . ‚Äî Ascertain how far Mandi is removed 
from the lord of the 8th house. When Saturn in his 
transit arrives at a Rasi so far removed from Mandi, 
death may happen ; so say the eminent astrologers. 

Sloka 27.‚Äî When the Sun transits the 6th, the 7th 
or 12th place reckoned from Venus at birth, death is 
sure to happen ; so say the eminent astrologers* 

^^vrBrsrrir^arrt 

^I^a?[TTrSTai^cr % ^ai'^OIT 

5Tm 11 

Sloka Find ou' where the following planets are 
posited at a birth ; (li ihe lord of the 8th (2) the lord of 
the 12th (3) the lord of the 6th, (4) the lord of the 8th 
house decanate, i. e., the 22nd decanate and (5) Mandi. 
When Saturn, Jupiter, he Sun and the Moon in their 
transit pass through these houses, death may take 
place. The same may also happen when these transit 
the Navamsas of the five Grahas stated above or their 
Trikona positions. 

‚Ä¢ Thus ends the 17th Adhyaya on "Exit from the 
World" in the work Phaladeepika composed 
by Mantreswara. 



1^4 Adh. XViil 

II II 

ii II 

fir¬ª*rTg^sr¬´Tff %5rCT%?Tt ?r?5rr?iTi:rt srt 

5^ %5¬´¬ªr i 

wi: g*nr TffT^^- 

?:flr^5T wi‚Äôi^sr^>5 m iiui 

ADHYAYA XVIII. 

SJoka L‚ÄîIf, at the birth of any person, the Sun be 
in conjunction with the Moon, he will be skilled in 
machinery and stone work ; if the Sun be in conjunc- 
tion with Mars, the person born will be intent on doing 
sinful deeds ; if he be associated with Mercury, the 
person will be clever, intelligent, famous and happy. 
If the Sun be in conjunction with Jupiter, the person 
born in the Yoga will be cruel and interested in help 
ing others. If the Sun and Venus be together at a 
birth, the person concerned will earn money as an 
actor or by the use of weapons If the Sun be associat- 
ed with Saturn, the person born will be clever in work- 
ing in metals or in various sorts of pottery. 

mg: ?r^5Fr: 5T?ft 

?Tir: arfar?r5ri5F?TiT?if5r5ot i ' 

^^rT: %>Tf%fr5T7 55r¬ª|^?TW IIS^II 

S/oka 2. ‚Äî If the Moon be in conjunction with Mass, 
the person born will be a dealer in hammers, ploughs 
or other rough instruments, women, spirituous drinks 
and eayrthen jars ; he will be disobedient to his mpther. 
If the Ido on be associated with Mercury, the man born 
in the Yoga will speak sweetly and modestly, be 
clever in interpreting, and endowed with good 



SI. ^^-4 ly'j 


luck and fame. When the Moon is in conjunc 
tion with Jupiter, the person born will be over- 
powering (his enemies), but fickleminded ; he will 
be a chief of his family and wealthy. When Venus 
is associated with the Moon, the person born will be an 
adept in weaving, tailoring and dyeing of cloths. If 
the Moon be in conjunction with Saturn, the person 
born will be the son of a widow remarried. 

f:¬ª5n?rrS¬ªI?q^?VT: f^f?7rTaj 1 1 is II 

Sioka j' -If Mars and Mercury be together, the 
person born in the Yoga will be a dealer in herbs, 
plants, barks, oils and drugs. He will be clever iii 
boxing. When Mars is in conjuncdon with Jupiter, the 
person born will be a leader ol a city, or a king or a 
wealthy Brahmin. The effect of Venus and Mars being 
together at a birth will bo that the person born will be 
a shepiierd, a wrestler, skill a!, addicted to other 
people's wives, or a gambler. If Mars be in conjunction 
with Saturn at the birth of a person, he will be misera- 
ble, untruthful and despised by ail. 

^iTorqr: i 

q-fijnr: gqior JjrT 

qri iiyii 

Slake --When Mercury and Jupiter are in coniu.nc- 
tion, the person born will be an actor, fond of music 
and veiLod in the art of dancing. If Venus be in con- 
junction with Mercury, the person born will be 
eloguen , possess lands, and will become a head of an 
qr f ; ‚Äî 2 4 . 



j'% Adh. XVI II 


assembly. If Saturn be associated with Mercury, the 
person born will be clever in cheating others and 
addicted to licentious pleasures. The man at whose 
birth Jupiter and Venus occupy one house will have 
good learning, possess wealth and wife, and have many 
good qualities If Jupiter and Saturn be together at a 
birth, the person affected by the Yoga will be a barber, 
a potter or a cook. 

irf aiiotbur muling for in tljo 2nd lino. 

SJoka 6'. If Venus and Saturn be together at a birth, 
the person affected by the Yoga will be short-sighted, 
will get his wealth augmented through a young woman, 
(His marriage will be a keynote to financial success). 
He will be skilled in writing and painting. If more than 
two planets occupy a house, prediction should be made 
by combining the effects described for the several 
possible pairs of planets constituting the Yoga. 

11 II 

Shka 6. -If the Moon in Mesha be aspected by 
Mars, the person born will be a king ; if by Mercury, 
he will be learned ; if by Jupiter, he will be a king, if 
by Venus, he will be equal to a king ; if by Saturn, he 
will be a thief; and if by the Sun, he will be poor. The 
Moon in (Taurus) Vrishabha, aspected by Mars and 
other planets in order will make the person born (1) 
poor, (2) thievish, (3) respected by other men, (4) a 
king, 5) wealthy and (6) a servant respectively. 



SI. 7-0 ]S7. 

?Tt^snf^ft:%rft5TT %^rH 7 SF^nr IWIl 

Sloka 7. ‚Äî If the Moon occupy Mithuna and be 
aspected by Mars and other planets, the person con- 
cerned will be (1) transacting business in iron instru- 
ments, (2) a king, (3) learned, (4) fearless, (5) a weaver 
and (6) poor respectively. The Moon in Kataka if 
aspected by Mars and other planets will make the 
person born (1) a warrior, (2) learned, (3) a wise man, 
(4) a king, (5) a dealer in iron, copper, etc., and ^6^ a 
sufferer from eye-disease. 

Sloka <S.‚Äî If the Moon occupies Simha and is aspect- 
ed by Mars and other planets, the person born will be 
(1) a king, (2) an astrologer (3) wealthy, (4) a king, (5) 
a barber and (6) a king respectively. If at a birth the 
Moon be in Kanya and be aspected by Mars and other 
planets, the person born will be (I) clever, (2) a king, 
(3) head of an army, (4) skilful in all matter.*?, (5) a king, 
and (6) a king respectively. 

^'Tt ^Tirf^rm nCf^r; f^^rTtwrarr: itMi 

Sloka 9. ‚Äî The effect of the Moon in Tula being 
aspected by Mars and other planets will in their order 
make the person born (1) a rogue, (2) a king, (3) a man 
xvorking in gold (gold-smith), (4) a trader, (5) a tale- 
bearer, and (6) wicked respectively. If the Moon be in 
Vrischika and is aspected by Mars and other planets 
taken in order, the person born will be ( Ij a king, (2 a 
father of twins, (3) a king (4^ a washerman (5) one 
d^fegtivQ q{ ^ome limb, and (6) ruioneyless respegtively, 



Adh. XV HI 


5t¬ª¬ßr^^ i‚Äù‚Äôc tW‚Äô of-l'C‚Äô rcadinf's for cf^rsft^ 
in tbo fmirih ('jiiarinr of tlio Siok;n 


^frfl 3r^5T flrrmmfyRT 5T3:-. i 

^¬ªTt f^f^TT %JTT# ll^oil 


SlokalU. If, at t]}e Ume of birth, the Moon occupies 
Dhanus and bo aspectod by Mars, the person concern- 
ed will be a cheat ; if aspected by Mercury, he will 
protect his kinsmen ; if aspected by Jupiter, he will 
be a ruler of the earth ; if by Venus, he will be a sup- 
port to many people; it by Saturn, he will be a rogue; 
and if by the Sun, he will i )0 an arrogant fellow. If at the 
time of birth the Moon occupie.s Makar a and is aspect- 
ed by Mars and other pianeis in their order, the person 
born will be (1) a king (2 a king (3) a king (4) a learned 
or v/is0 man (5^ wealthy and >6) poor respectively. 

%xrm i 

Sloka .//. -If at the time of birth the Moon occupies 
Kumbha and is aspected by Mars and other planets 
taken in order, the person concerned will be (1) addict- 
ed to other people's wives, (2) a king, (3) lord of men, 
( 4 ) one fond of women not his own, (5) best of kings 
and (6) respected by men, respectively. If the Moon 
occupies Meena and is aspected by Mars and other 
planets taken in order, the person born will be (1) a 
sinner, (2) witty, (3) a king, (4) a learned man, (5) one 
intent on doing what is sinful and (6) a sinner respeg-^ 
tlvely. 



^ 1 - ^ 2-13 ,iSU 

W II 

3m:^5i^ 5% 

¬ª|;?3ff5F?TTT‚ÄôciH5C?T: 

IIIRII 

Slokci 12.‚Äî li at a person's birth the Moon occupy 
a Navamsa of Mars and be aspected by the Sun, the 
person will be a watchman of a ciiy ; if the Moon in the 
above position be aspected l:>y Mars, he will be fond of 
killing; if by Mercury, he will be skilled in close fight* 
ing ; if by Jupiter, he will be a king; if by Venus, he 
will be rich ; and if bv Saturn, he will promote quarrels. 
If at the time of birth, the Moon ]';e in a Navamsa of 
Venus and be aspected by the Sun, the person con- 
cerned will be a fool ; if by Mars, he will be addicted 
to other people's wives ; if by Mercury, he will be a 
good poet ; if by Jupiter, Ijg will be the author of good 
literary works; if by Venus, he will be intent on having 
all comforts; and if by Saturn, he will unite with 
other people's wives. 

iiOii 

Sloka /?.‚Äî If at the time of birth the Moon occupy 
a Navamsa of Mercury and be aspected by the Sun, the 
person concerned will be an actor ; if by Mars, he will 
be a thief ; if by Mercury, he will be the chief of poets ; 
if by Jupiter, he will be a minister; if by Venus, he 
will be skilled in music ; and if by Saturn, he will be 
skilled in mechanical arts. If at the time of birth, the 
Moon occupies his own Navamsa and be aspected by 



AdhXVlIi 

the Sun, the person concerned will be lean in person ; 
ii by Mars, he will be avaricious ; if by Mercury, he 
will be practising penance ; if by Jupiter, he will be- 
come an important personage ; if by Venus, he will be 
a servant under a woman ; and if by Saturn, he will be 
devoted to his duties. 

Sloka 14 . ‚Äî If at the time of birth, the Moon be in a ' 
Navamsa of Simha and be aspected by the Sun, the 
person concerned will be of an angry temper ; if by 
Mars, he will be a friend of the king ; if by Mercury, 
he will become the lord of a hidden treasure; if by 
Jupiter, he will become a great lord ; if by Venus, he 
will be childless ; and if by Saturn, he will do cruel 
acts. If at the time of birth the Moon be in a Navamsa 
of Jupiter and be aspected by the Sun, he will be a 
man of reputed valour ; if by Mars, he will be versed 
infighting; if by Mercury, he will be witty; if by 
Jupiter, he will be a minister; if by Venus, he will be 
without lust ; and if by Saturn, he will be virtuously 
disposed, 

SJoka 15. -'ll at the time of birth the Moon sho ild 
occupy a Navamsa of Saturn and be aspected by the 
Sun, the person concerned will have a very limited 
number of children ; if by Mars, he will lead a misera- 
ble life even though wealthy ; if by Mercury, he will 
be haughty; if by Jupiter, he will be devoted to his 
duty ; if by Venus, he will be fond of wicked women ; 
and if by Saturn, he will be irascible. In the same 



SI. 16-17 3T^5ftS¬´rpT: Itil 

manner should be predicted the effects resulting from 
the Sun in the several Navamsas being aspected by 
the Moon and other planets. 

srf^ 5[^t?[rer i 

Sloka i6.‚Äî What has been declared here (in Slokas 
12-15) as (Amsaphala) due to the Moon being 

posited in the Amsas of the Sun and other planets 
should be understood to be the effects derived from 
the Navamsa division. The effects that have been de- 
clared as resulting from the Moon in the several signs 
being aspected by the various planets should be stat^ 
ed as applying in the case pf the Dwadasamsas also. 


S-loka 17 , ‚Äî The good effects described above will be 
full, middling and little according as the Moon occu- 
pies a Vargottama, his own Navamsa or the Navamsa of 
another planet. In the case of bad effects, it will be the 
reverse. Again, if the lord of the Navamsa occupied 
by the Moon be strong, the effects described for the 
Moon in the several signs and aspected by the several 
planets will be nullified, and only those effects due to 
the Moon's occupying the particular Navamsa subject 
to the particular planetary aspect will come to pass. 

Thus ends the 18th Adhyaya on ^'Conjunctions 
of two planets" in the work Phaladeepika 
composed by Mantreswaira. 



Adh. XIX 

II II 

¬´I^T itJT JT^ITCT f%j: 

‚Äô^qigrt qtm^wr q:m?rf 
HTt qftq^f^TqrrrTqTfecTT ITfl^jq-T ^iq 11'^ II 

ADHYAYA XIX. 

Slolca I . ‚Äî The nine planets who were worshipped 
in many ways with devotioa for a long time by sage 
Parasara, having been pleased, bestowed upon him the 
knowledge of accurately determining their effects (on 
births in this world). Being convinced after many tests 
that they are unfailing, I take out only the essence from 
the astrological scriptures containing his famous say- 
ings and set forth the famous 'Maha Dasa.' 

3iis?nB[rnTq-?TqT 
^'iTiiTi:^5Tf?r'si5ir3r*tgqq:r: t 
%% sfTRqqi 

wrq qJsTT fqqfgqr: gqiq ir-ii 

Sloka 2. ‚ÄîCount the stars from Krittika in groups ol 
nine. The planets presiding over the Dasas belonging 
to the nine stars composing each group are respective- 
ly the Sun, the Moon, Mars, Rahu, Jupiter, Saturn, 
Meicury, Ketu and Venus, and their respective years 
aie 6, 10, 7, 18, 16, 19, 17, 7 and 20. 

*T*qT isrqisirf^STr qmqr i 

fqr^g qr^r feqqT: ii^u 

SMq3.‚Äî At the time of birth, find out the number 
of Ghatikas, etc., still to be traversed (by the Moon) in 
the star he is in. Multiply this by the number of years 
allotted to the ruler of the star and divide the product 



Siri4 


193- 




by 60. The quotient will be the period in years still to 
elapse. Any remainder remaining may be converted 
into months by multiplying by 12 and dividing by 60 
and the remainder again into days by multiplying by 
30 and dividing by 60 and so on. 

VTTJTSFJTlTrff JT^FS^in: ll¬´ll 

Sloka 4. ‚Äî Note the exact position of the Sun in the 
zodiac at the time of birth. When the Sun in his next 
round arrives at the same position, it is considered as 
one solar year, which is also the year taken for the 
Ududasa system. By sub-dividing the same, days are 
al^p calculated. 


II 11 

vrig: 

Sloka 5. ‚Äî If at a birth the Sun be badly placed, he 
will during his Dasa promote quarrel, sudden dis 
pleasure of the sovereign, sic?kness among relatives, 
wandering, with others, intolerable mental anguish, 
and danger from fire to concealed wealth, grain, 
sons and wife. 

^ ii^.ii 

Sloka 6. ‚Äî If at a birth the Sun be posited in a good 
house, he will during his Dasa bring on acquisition of 
wealth through cruel deeds, journeys, kings and quar- 
rels, roaming through forests and mountains, wide 

26 , 





Adh. XIX 


]U4 


fame, success in business, severity, attachment (devo¬´ 
tion) for ever to one's duty and happiness. 

*r5T:!T^Ti^ ar^Rr ?ar i 

^ n'sii 

Sloka '/. ‚Äî During the Moon's Dasa, there will be 
tranquillity of the mind, success in all business, good 
food, acquisition of wife, children, ornaments, clothes, 
‚ñÝgems, cows and lands. The person will honour 
Brahmins. 

^ ^ JTWq[ I 

Sloka 8. ‚Äî Everything ought to be declared after 
examination of the Moon's strength. In the first period 
of ten days of the lunar month, the Moon is of moderate 
strength. During the middle period of ten days, his 
strength is full, and he is therefore very auspicious. 
During the third period of ten days, his strength is on 
the wane and the effect also will be gradually de- 
clining. 

li'Mi 

Sloka 9.‚Äî During the Dasa of Mars, the person con- 
cerned gets wealth through fire, the king, fighting and 
the like. There will be influx of money by administering 
medicines, falsehood, cheating and various, cruel 
actions. He will be always bothered (alflicted) by 
bilious complaints, impurity of blood and fever; he 
will have intrigues with low females ; he will quarrel 
with his wife, children, relations and elders, and 
thereby suffer misery ; and he will take delight in 
(enjoying) other's fortune. 



‚ñÝ SI. JO-12 





g^i^fTriTmrJT^^ 
f^¬ßr?!T5r^?T?T5r^ I 

sTTrr^v‚ÄôTgRtrf^'Ti^rt^ tr5^7^Tt 
3n?TrrJT3rTf^gCTr ^^TcT ITfr^H Hloll 

Sloka /O.‚Äî When Mercury's Dasa is operating, there 
will be meeting of friends, personal comforts, fame 
through the applause of the learned, favour from eldeiS' ‚Äô 
cleverness in (one's) speech, doing good to others, 
happiness to one's wife, children, friends, etc , an 
exalted position. 

JT^ris^^rwirTiH 

Sloka /:. ‚ÄîDuring Jupiter's Dasa, the person con* 
cerned will perform some virtuous deed, acquire 
children, will be honoured by the sovereign and will re* 
ceive praises from great men ; there will be acquisition 
of elephants, horses and vehicles, meeting of wife, 
children and friends, and accomplishment (fulfilment) 
of one's desires. 

5f.5B5ir 

Sloka 72.‚Äî During the Dasa of Venus, the person 
concerned will obtain materials and facilities for his 
sport and happiness, good vehicles, cows, gems, orna 
ments, treasure, enjoyment in the company of young 
damsels, intellectual pursuits, voyage, auspicious 
deeds and acceptance of present? from the sovereign. 



|96 Acih. Xlk 

irJ5ftd?r ar^riH 

*TFRf?j??R ^3r?rwfjrw73rtrri5T^ iil^ii 

Sloka 13 . ‚Äî During the Dasa of Saturn, the person 
concerned may expect his wife and children 
to be troubled by gout, rheumatism or similar windy 
diseases, loss in agriculture, evil talk, intercourse with 
wicked women, desertion of servants, absence from his 
residence and destruction or loss all on a sudden of his 
relations, lands, happiness and wealth. 

%f?TT^Tf^'!rTm?T?5r- 
^mi?TIT%f^^TTSrf^^I5Tq I 
;ftgigrJTR5TJTr?T5FWcfts¬ªTgi5f 

1% Tf^riT iiiyii 

Sloka "During Rahu's Dasa, the person may 
expect trouble from the sovereign, thieves, poison, 
fire and weapons, sickness to children, ruffled mind, 
loss of relations, insult from base people, scandal due 
to a breach of decorum, ejection or dismissal ftom tn 
office, wounding of the leg (or kicks) and failure of the 
business undertaken. 

?5n gVTJTTT I 

Sloka 15. ‚Äî If Rahu be associated with a benefic 
aad occupy good houses (/.e., houses other than the 
6th, the 8th or the 12th), his Dasa period will be bene- 
fic and fully auspicious, and will lift (raise) the native 
to affluence on a par with the king. The native will 
have all his desires fulfilled and will stay at home 
enjoying happiness- There will be steady accumu- 
}¬´tion'-9f wealth and he will become widely renowned. 



, SI.' 16*19 




‚Ä¢ iM 


¬´n¬´ftJT*ft5n^s¬ªr?R?r n^5ni^T% *r%5f ¬´Er i 
%?rTRr<Ri sn^r: \\K%\\ 

Sloka 16. ‚Äî Astrologers say that Rahu in Kanyai 
Meena or Vrischika, gives to the person concerned, 
during his Dasa honor and happiness, lordship of lands, 
carriages and servants All these, however, are 
liable to be lost at the conclusion of the Dasa. 

%?ft|?rraTiTft:^‚Äôcwg; 5T?5r^?Tg¬´nirtir: i 

Sloka 77. ^-During Ketu's Dasa, the person concern- 
ed will have troubles from enemies, thieves, the 
sovereign, wounds from weapons, wounds, disease due 
to excessive heat, false calumny, a stigma to his family, 
danger from fire and absence from his own country. 

¬´r¬´r ?TTfttgr5Traf 

Sloka 18. ‚Äî When the Dasa of the Sun is in progress, 
the general effects to be noted will be money-making 
by cruel acts, through kings and fighting, trouble from 
fire and beasts, inflammation of the eyes, illness affect- 
:ing the stomach and teeth, severe trouble to wife and 
children, separation from revered seniors and parents, 
destruction of servants and loss of property. 

w^ratr; ii 

Shka 19. ‚Äî During the Moon's Dasa, the person con. 
cerned will get mohey through Sacred prayers, Gods, 





Adh. XIX 


‚ñÝ 1&8 


Brahmins and royal favour. He will secure to hinaself 
women, wealth and lands. He will further have a 
profusion of flowers, clothes, ornaments, perfumes and 
various valuable juicy objects of enjoyment. There will 
be misunderstandings with the wicked and loss of 
money and he will suffer from wind disease. 

Sloka 20 . ‚Äî During the ripening of Mars' Mahadasa, 
there may be attempts of money-making through lands, 
litigation and the sovereign. He will also acquire more 
cattle and lands. There will be quarrels with his 
brothers and sons. He will resort continuously to the 
society of wicked men and women and suffer diseases 
arising from bile, blood, as well as through fire. He 
will also have loss of wealth. 

WRltWTVT: IRlII 

Sloka 2L ‚Äî At the time when Rahu's Dasa is in pro- 
gress, the person concerned will become wicked in 
(his) disposition, or will suffer from a terrible disease; 
which cannot be diagnosed he will lose his wife 
and children. There will be danger from poison 
and trouble from enemies and he will suffer 
from diseases relating to the eyes and the head. 
There will also arise misunderstandings with friends 
and cultivators, and displeasure from the sovereign. 






199 


Sli ^i9-24 

g^fg?Tt¬ªr: ^<nd*T: T.¬´Tnw: ll^c^ll 

Sloka 22 .‚Äî During the Dasa of Jupiter, the person 
concerned will get new cloths and such other objects 
will have attendants, retinue and similar grandeur, and 
will command intense respect and dignity. There will 
be acquisition of children, wealth and friends. He will 
further receive adoration for sanity of his speech 
which has won general approbation. He will suffer 
separation from his elders, have ear disease and phleg- 
matic troubles. 

oloka 23 .‚Äî At the time when Saturn's Dasa is in 
progress, the native will acquire wealth on account of 
some trouble in the country and fighting ; he will get 
servants and old women ; will have aquisition of cows 
buffaloes and bulls ; and trouble to children and wife. 
He will suffer from windy and phlegmatic diseases, 
and piles, and a burning sensation in the legs, hands 
and other limbs. 

SJoka 24 ‚Äî During the Dasa of Mercury, the pdrson 
concerned will get always the benefit of spiritual 



2pQ^ Adh. XtX 


preceptors. He will get money through Brahmins, and 
will acquire new lands, cows and horses, ^e will wor- 
ship great men and Gods and acquire immense wealth. 
Diseases resulting from wind, heat, and phlegm will 
also torment himr 

f%Tr?ri5ftrqRrm; i 
sw^ ffg^nirr sftqor 

Sloka 2d.‚Äî During Ketu's Dasa the person will have 
sorrow and confusion caused by females, trouble 
from the rich and loss of wealth ; he will do impro- 
per acts to others. He will suffer banishment from his 
country. There will be suffering from tooth- ache, 
leg pain, and phlegmatic troubles. 

Sloka 26 . ‚Äî During the Dasa of Venus there will' 
be acquisition of wife, jewels, clothes, brilliance 
treasure, wealth, ornaments, horses, comforts of the 
cc'uch, and seats. There will also be aug menta- 
tion of wealth by trade, agriculture and vt yages, 
ar.d anxiety, mental anguish separation (or c emise) 
of parents and elders and misery to one's relati ves. 

Thus ends the 19th Adhyaya on ‚ÄúDasas and their Effects‚Äù 
in the work Pbaladeepilea composed by Mantreswai-a. 



51. 1-4 




201 


II II 

II 5r5TT¬ªTin^?Ttr^TqT?FT% II 

vrf%>?r>:¬´ir srir%^ i 

^TT 5 iTtrjrs?TJT 3 r?q‚Äò^? 5 nF^^,‚Äô^f^':^^¬´r ^?r%' 3 T 1101 

ADHYAYA XX. 

Sloka L ‚Äî What the effects are that are derivable 
from a planet which is strong and which owns a certain 
Bhava and what they will be when the lord is weak, 
and when they have actually to be experienced by the 
native all these are indicated briefly in this chaptar. 

srgr^ I 

sTtjrtw ^r^r: ir<ii 

Slokj 2r -When the Lagna possesses maximum 
strength, the native will, during the Dasa of the lord ol 
of the Lagna, rise to a place of eminence in the world, 
will be happily placed in life, will be physically strong, 
will have a brilliant appearance; and his prosperity 
will be on the increase as his life progresses'just as the 
Moon's digits in the bright half of a month. 

q'r%s4?rrs!TW ^ir‚ÄôiBrgKifrirT ^ 1 

sria^frr vrsrif^ ir^ii 

Sloka 3 . ‚Äî During the ripening of the Dasa of the 
lord of the 2nd house, one pught to predict success or 
acquisition to family, acquisition of good daughters, 
good meals, earning money by lectures, eloquence 
in speech and the consequent approbation of the 
audience in the assembly. 

^?mTm?T^srwor ^ 1 

oTVT^s^JTTfr jRTsni g|ror¬•rnnTfWir >1^'* 

^.^‚Äî 26 . 



202 


. Adh. XX 

SJoka ‚ÄîDuring the Dasa of a planet that is strong 
and owns the 3rd house one ought to expect friendship 
with and help from brothers, hearing of agreeable 
news which please the mind, (opportunity for) the exhi- 
bition of one's valour, leadership in an army, attain- 
ment of some honour, help from people and a praise by 
others of his various good qualities. 

:Koku - i Help to relations, success in agriculture, 
Iriendship with females, acouisition of vehicles, new 
land, new house, wealth, higher status (promotion in 
one's appointment), all these may be expected during 
^he ripening of the Dasa of the planet owning the 4th 
house. 

g:¬ªT^ifTT 

5fT i 

Sloka 6. "During the Dasa of the lord of the 5th 
i- ouse, the native may expect the birth of a son, respect 
and merriment with relations, or the post of a coun- 
^ illor under kings. He will (command), feed others 
< id enjoy all kinds of (cooked dishes dainties in 
:> enty. He will accomplish acts meritorious winning 
lie approbation of the virtuous. 

' 37^t*T?TrgTI‚Äô:?n¬ªT^f‚Äô:^?TtJTrcTfsT?¬ªjr lull 

'‚Ä¢jloka /.--In the ripening of the Dasa of the lord of 
9 6th house, the native will be able to subdue all his 
emies by doing daring acts. He will enjoy perfect 



SI. 8-11 -08 


health, will be highly liberal-minded, will be very 
powerful and will live in all splendour and prosperity. 

f;5?nariTf>?TsiT^5r ^ *r^5TTi¬´^ ii<:ii 

Sloka a‚ÄîDuring the Dasa-period of the lord of the 
7th house, the person born acquires new clothes, 
jewels, new bed, etc., He will be contented will fully 
enjoy all pleasures in the company of his beloved. He 
will be very powerful or virile and perform marriages 
or similar auspicious festivities in his family and 
undertake pleasuredrips. 

JT%Tq‚Äò>Er3rg5!Tjr^TTrJT 

Sloka 9,‚Äú"During the Dasa-period of the lord of the 
8th house, if the planet is strong, one ought to expect 
the complete discharge of debts, his own elevation, 
cessation of quarrels, and acquisition of buffaloes, 
cows, goats and servants. 

S/oiaiO.- During the Dasa-period of the lord of the 
9th house, the person born will, in the company of his 
wife, sons, grand children and relations, enjoy continu* 
ous prosperity, happiness and wealth, will perform 
meritorious deeds, receive royal favor and an opportu- 
nity to show reverence to Brahmins and Gods. 

sT%gT iiUii 

Sloka J7. -During the Dasa of the lord of the 10th 
house, the person concerned will bring to a successful 
termination any business or undertaking originated by 



304 Adh- XX 


him ; he will lead a happy life ; he will become widely 
renowned ; settle himself on a permanent position ; 
will do cleverly what is good and proper, or he will 
get happy news and will command great respect. 

Sloka 72. ‚ÄîDuring the period when the Dasa of the 
lord of the 11th house is in progress, the person con* 
cerned will have an uninterrupted influx of wealth, 
will meet with his kith and kin, will be served by 
servants and slaves, and there will be domestic 
happiness and great prosperity. 

Sloka 13. ‚Äî When the Dasa of the lord of the 12th 
house is in progress, there will be much spending of 
money by the native for the cause of the good. He will 
do meritorious acts, and thus ward off the several sins 
already committed. He will also get royal honours. 

g iilyii 

Sloka 14, ‚Äî The effects of the Dasa periods of planets 
that are retrograde or that occupy their own, 
exaltation or friendly houses or are placed in good 
houses (position other than the 6th, the 8th or 
the 12th) will be as those described so far I shal^ 
now set forth the effects of the Dasas of planets occupy, 
ing inimicial or depression houses, or that have been 
eclipsed (become invisible) or that happen to be in the 
6th, the 8th or the 12th house. 



SI- 15- 205 

^riT^'T 5-f^nT5?T?T Ill'All 

Sloka 15. ‚Äî When the lord of the Lagna is badly 
placed, the person concerned will dujring the Dasa of 
that planet be imprisoned. He will lead the life 
incognito, will suffer from fear, disease and menta^ 
anxiety, will participate in a funeral rite, or will leave 
his work and take up anothers task, will suffer loss 
of position and other misfortunes. If the lord of 
the 2nd house be in a similar position, the person will 
during the said planet's Dasa behave stupidly in a 
public assembly, will not be true to his word or to his 
family, wilj receive evil tidings, or write bad letters 
suffer eye-trouble, will be foul-tongued, spend heavily 
and fear the sovereign. 

<Tsrtw# I 

'TJ'sr>^Tf^fir?n?T!T 

Sloka /6.~ If the lord of the 3rd house be posited in 
^ (Dusstthana), the person concerned may ex* 

pect the demise of his brother during the planet's 
Dasa ; evil counsel will prevail in his undertakings, 
and there will be trouble through secret machinations 
of internal enemies, humiliation, discomfiture and loss 
of pride thereby. If the lord of the 4th house be similar- 
ly weak, he will during his Dasa cause distress to the 
native's mother, sickness to his dear friends, danger 
to his lands and house, trouble from planets destruc* 
tion of cattle, etc., and danger from water. 



Adh. XX 


206 

5?ff^STffRJT?i5r: q%sT^^ srorw II'^^SII 

Sloka 17, ‚Äî When the lord of the 5th house is defi- 
cient in strength, the person concerned will during 
the planet's Dasa lose a ,son. He will have aberra 
tion of mind, decep^^ion, a wearisome wandering, 
trouble in the stomach, displeasure of the sovereign 
and bodily weakness During the Dasa of the planet 
that is weak and owning the 6th house, the native 
will be troubled by thieves, suffer reverses, defeat 
(subjugationy and various diseases* He will do wicked 
acts and servile dutios. He will be despised and 
scandalised and will suffer from wounds. 

irwrg5?f>7?r ‚Äò 

Tifei ^nnt \\\ c \\ 

Sloka 18 , ‚Äî During the Dasa of the lord of the 7th 
house who is weak, there will be distress to the 
native's son-in law; there will be separation from his 
beloved. Something untoward will happen to him 
through the opposite sex. He will have intrigues with 
wicked women, suffer from diseases in his private 
parts, and will be wandering When the ^asa of the 
lord of the 8th house is in progress (and when he is 
weak), the person concerned will suffer from exces- 
sive sorrow, want of sense, carnal appetite, jealousy, 
unconsciousness, poverty, fruitless rambling, calumny, 
sickness, humiliation and death. 

I 

Rr?JTR¬ªr#t fnrt- 



20 ^ 


SI. 19-21 


Sloka 19 Ai the lord of the 9th house whose Dasa is in 
progress be weak, the person will have to incur the 
wrath (severe displeasure) of the deity that had been 
worshipped formerly and suffer something untoward; 
there will be trouble to hjs wife and children ; he 
will do wicked acts ; one of his elders and his father 
may die, and he may suffer from penury. When the 
lord of the 10th house whose Dasa is in progress is not 
strong, anything done by the native becomes fruit- 
less; he will further suffer loss of honour, will be 
wicked in his behaviour will be absent in foreign 
places. There will be inauspicious happenings. He 
will lead a bad life and suffer troubles. 

I Roll 

Sloka 20 .‚Äî During the Dasa of the planet' that is 
weak and owning the 11th house the native will have 
to hear evil tidings. There will be trouble to a brother 
or sickness to children ; he will suffer misery, decep- 
tion and ear disease. When the Dasa of the planet 
that is weak and owning the 12th house is in progress, 
the person concerned will suffer from various diseases, 
dishonour and bondage. All his wealth will disappear 
like the (waning) Moon in the dark half of a month 
or like the Moon that is at the western horizon. 

¬ªrr%w?:f^r ^ 

Sloka 2i. -Whatever has beerf stated in the chapter 



‚ÄòAOy Adh. XX 


on Definitions (Adh. I), whatever has been mentioned 
as belonging to the presiding planets (Adh. II), 
whatever calling is declared appropriate in the Chapter 
on profession (Adh. V), whatever diseases have been 
described as due to the several planets (Adh. XIV), 
whatever has been spoken of as the effect of the aspect 
or association with the planets (Adh. XVIII), or of the 
presence of planets in Bhavas or of the lords of the 
several Bhavas or the lords being associated with 
others, (Adh. XV, XVI, XVII,) all this, must be duly 
assigned to the planets concerned in their respective 
Dasas. 

Sloka 22. ‚Äî The Dasa of a planet occupying a 
(Vargottamamsa) will give favourable results. It 
will be mixed when the said planet is eclipsed or is in 
depression. When the Dasa and Apahara belonging to 
two planets both of whom own or occupy the 8th; the 
12th or the 6th house are in progress, the effect will be 
unfavourable. 

nk^ii 

Sloka 23.‚Äî During the Dasa period of a malefic pla- 
net when the sub-period of a planet ruling the 3rd, the 
5th or the 7th star (reckoned from the natal star) is in 
progress or the Bhukti of the lord owning the Janma 
Raai or the 8th house therefrom is passing, the person 
concerned will have troubles from thieves and enemies 
and will suffer much misery. 

vsi w%irTw^^Ttrvn¬ªr^¬´i5rJ9T ir¬´ii 



SI. 26-27 




209 


Sloka 24. ‚Äî li in the order of main Dasas, the fourth 
happens to belong to Saturn, the sixth to Jupiter, the 
fifth to Mars or Rahu, eyery one of these will prove 
dangerous. So also will be the Dasa period of a planet 
occupying the end of a sign or owning a (Dus- 

stthana 6th, 8th or 12th). 

% ^?[rT 5CT jq-w I 

o/oAa 26 . ‚Äî H Mars be posited in an (Urdliva- 

mukha) Rasi {vide 1-8 s‚Äôi ora), or. the exaltation sign 
identical with the 10th or the 11th house, his Dasa- 
period will secure to the native concerned a kingdom. 
After subduing his enemies, he will become a renown- 
ed king endowed with a large number of vehicles and 
a huge army and he will feed many people. 

?yT^sRr ^ xT q-TT^^- 1 

q|;T^iyifr 

vftfrrf^q^I^fq-4Tqt 5rqr?T q5TT5=J: 

Sloka 2G. If Venus, uiieclipsed and free from asso- 
ciation with a malefic planet, be in his own or exalta- 
tion Rasi identical with the i2th, the 10th or the 11th 
house, the person concerned will, during the said 
planet's Dasa period, get many gems and precious 
stones, have his intellect expanded, will become 
immensely affluent and praised by many people. 

‚Äò‚Ä¢TcTT: ^<TTq; IR^II 



Adh. XX 

SIoP.a 27.‚Äî- All benefics, if placed in depression, 
inimical, the 6th or the 12th houses, will only produce 
untoward results, while malefics similarly placed will 
give in their Dasa- periods incalculable (intense) 
miseries. 

cTfRT rkivftftr iR<;ii 

Sloka 22. --During a planet's Dasa-period, when a 
Bhukti of a planet inimical to the Dasanatha, or of a 
planet occupying the 6Lh house (or an inimical house) 
or ot planet inimical to the lord of the Lagna is in 
l-u ogress, the native concerned will have to apprehend 
ci¬´:iT;ger from his enemies, and loss or change of posi- 
tioji ; even the person who has all along been friendly 
will turn out hositile to him. 

?j?rr5iiT; q-T^7R#^!(n^5rR3rrtTrf?f q^^riffr i 

:ik)kG .2‚Äô.- ‚ÄòWhichever Bhava counted from the 
(Dasanatha; is occupied by the 
(Bhuktinatha), it is only the effects arising from that 
Bhava that will come to pass in that Bhukti. When the 
Bhuktiiiatha occupies the 6th, the 8th or the 12th house 
reckoned from the Dasanatha, the effect will be un- 
happy. At other houses, it will be good- 

5r^ ?ft=5r^?JT n\o\\ 

Sloka 30 . ‚Äî The good influence of planets is at its 
maximum, three quarters, a half, a quartf r, at its mini- 
mum or nil according as the planets are in the exalta- 
tion sign, Moolatrikona, Swakshetra, frien<ily sign, 
inimical sign or depression sign respectively. The 



51. 31-33 




211 . 


proportions given above are with respect to benefics 
or lords of benefic houses. In the case of malefics, or 
lords of malefic houses, it will be reverse. When a 
planet is in combustion (conjunction with the Sun\ 
its effect will be similar to that in depression. 
C/. ^TT. gr. VII.58). 

S'ocrj 3/. --Out of the planets Saturn, Mandi, Rahu, 
the lord of the 22nd decanate and the lord of the 8th 
house and the lords of the Navamsa Rasis occupied by 
these planets, find which is the weakest. It is only the 
Dasa of that planet that will prove fatal, and the demise 
will happen (occur) when Saturn during his transit 
passes through an untoward house (W:^, 6th, 8th 
or 12th). 

jj7t5T!Tr'''jf^^?T¬•rf7r3;?T^: i 

Sloka32.‚ÄîO\itolih.e two sets of planets, viz, ( 1 ) 
the lord of the house occupied by the lord of the 8th 
house, and the lord of the Navarnsa occupied by the 
lord of the 8th house and (2) the lord of the 22nd de- 
canate and the lord of the rising decanate, find which 
planet in each pair is stronger. When the Dasa of this 
stronger planet is in progress, and when Jupiter during 
his transit passes through the Rasi and Navarnsa 
occupied by the lord of the 8ih house or its triangular 
position, the death of the person concerned may come 
to pass. 

Jj^ir?iT5r?T¬ªTT vr5rff?T ^^srsnrr: i 

Sloka 3.?.‚Äî If Jupiter, the lord of the house occupied 
by the Moon and the ruler of tb¬´ Lagna, be in Kendraa 



21.2 Adh. Xx 


at a birth, the middle portion of the life is good. Planets 
in (Prishtodaya) signs give good results in the 

end ; those in (Ubhayodaya) signs, in the mid" 

die ; and those in the (Sirshodaya) signs, in the 

beginning. (C/ 3rT' XXII;5). 

?T?rT^5!^ ?Tfr?Pf rr?*? llB.yil 

Sloko 34 , ‚Äî When a planet whose Dasa is in progress 
happens to pass through (in transit) his Swakshetra, 
exaltation or a hiendly house, he will promote the 
prosperity of the Bhava it represents when counted 
from the Lagna, provided the said planet is endowed 
with full strength at the birth time as well. 

TisKJri'-jt nrjTT^Tr 5 tt i 

Sloka 35 . ‚Äî When a planet whose Dasa is in progress 
be weak, eclipsed by the Sun's rays, in depression 
or inimical house at birth, he will during his transit 
through any house cause the total destruction of that 
Bhava. 

‚Äô^rTT^TrCTT gVT 11 

Sloka 36. ‚ÄîWhen the Moon in her progress is in a 
*Rasi which happens to be the exaltation sign of the 
lord of the Dasa, or a friendly house, the 3rd, the 6th, 
the 10th, the 1 1th, a Trikona or the 7th house with 
respect to the lord of the Dasa, the effects will be 
happy. If the Moon's place (during transit) be different, 
the effects will be far from happy. 

¬´TT5K5r5*Tl^rT: WT I 



213 


SI. 19-21 

Sloka 37. ‚Äî If the planet whose Bhukti is in progress 
should during the course of his transit at the time pass 
through his depression or inimical house or become 
eclipsed, there will be much misery. Should he pass 
through his own, or exaltation house or be retrograde, 
^he effects will then be good. 

Sloka 38. "-In the case of a planet whose Bhukti is 
auspicious, the good effect will be manifested when 
the Sun enters the planet's exaltation sign. The same 
effect will be felt when Jupiter transits the place. As 
regards the planet whose Bhukti is inauspicious (/.e., 
capable of yielding bad or evil effects), the evil effects 
will be felt when the Sun in his transit passes through 
the Bhukti-lord's depression or inimical sign, 

- ^3rmf^5rT¬´i- 

w^s'jrrrr‚Äôj'Jrjftq-qT^rTBr i 

gi‚ÄôsT \\W\ 

Sloka 39 ‚Äî Rahu will give effects‚Äî good or bad as 
the case may be ‚Äî according to the nature of the planet 
he associates with. That planet though good and 
auspicious by himself will, on account of his associa- 
tion with Rahu, specially cause evil at the concluding 
portion of his Dasa. 

JTTTsre‚Äôft rr'f\‚Äò¬ª5TT¬ªrr?r n??) sr^rrw: i 
?E?TTT% WT ii¬´oil 



2J4 



Adh. XX 


Sloka 40 .‚Äî The 2nd and the 7th (houses) afe termed 
the two death-producing houses. If the lords of these 
or the planets posited therein, are powerful they cause 
death during their Dasas. Should the lord of the 8th or 
the 12th house .be very weak, the demise may be 
expected during the Bhukti of either of the two. 

^orq'i: 

r^?7?T¬ªTt ‚ÄôrfV 

^577; ¬ªTn5TTTr?T ^TT^?Tm iiyiii 

Sloka 4 /.‚Äî The Dasa of a planet owning a Kendra 
will be inauspicious if he is a (Subha), and auspici- 
ous if he is an Asubhah The Dasas of all planets 

who own Trikona houses (1, 5, 9) will be auspicious. 
The lords of the 3rd, the 6th and the 11th houses even 
if they be stvtt: (Subhas) will cause only evil. The lord 
of the 8th house, if he should also happen to be the lord 
of the Lagna will prove auspicious. The Sun or the 
Moon even if he should happen to own the 8th house 
will give only good effects. These are the effects of 
the several Dasas according to Parasara's opinion. 

Sloko 42.‚Äî The lord of a Trikona house (5th and 
9th) posited in a Kendra or the lord of a Kendra in a 
Trikona house will prove auspicious to the native. 
These two planets during their Bhuktis in each other s 
Dasas will help .each the other and thus co-operate 
to make the period auspicious. 



SI- 44-47 T^>SV*n?TJ 2^^ 


Sloka 43. ‚Äî All planet do not produce good or bad 
effects to the native befitting the Bhavas they own, 
during the ripening of their own Bhuktis in their res- 
pective Dasas. 

sTicJT^q-ffvi^t 5^ ^ 5|[ % i 

Sloka 44 . ‚Äî Find what all planets are related (vide 
XV-30 supra) to the particular planet whose Dasa is 
under consideration. Note also the planets if any which 
are similarly circumstanced (whether for good or bad), 
i. e., holding a position co-ordinate to the one under 
reference. It is only in the Antardasas or Bhuktis of 
these planets that this original planet will in his main 
Dasa manifest his effect. 

Sloka 45. -The lords of a Kendra house and a Tri- 
kona house even if they should by themselves be capa- 
ble of causing evil (owing to their happening to be 
owners of other bad houses) become powerful, by their 
mere relationship (vile XV-30 supra) , to produce Yoga 
and make the native prosperous. 

irfT I 

SJoka 46 ‚ÄîU out of the lords of the 5th and 9th, one 
of them happen to be related (vid? XV-.3C supr .) to a 
strong planet owring a Kendra, he becomes a Yoga- 
karaka, i.e., powerful in promoting the prosperity of the 
native. 



2i6 Adh. XX 

Sloka 47. ‚ÄîU the lord of a Kendra be (in conjunc- 
tion) associated with the lord of a Trikona, both of 
them become powerful in promoting the prosperity of 
the native. Should a lord of another Trikona also be 
related fvr/e XV-30 st;pro), where is the doubt about 
the native's prosjperity behig still further advanced ? 

JTfi: ^cr; i 

SIoA'j If planets though by themselves bad, 
are related (v:c/i' XV-30, suprj) to a Yogakaraka (planet 
producing prosperity), they will produce during their 

Bhuktis good effects leading to affluence and happi- 
ness 

cT'-iir ?ft %f^5ri=vtsnT iiyMi 

Slokj 4 .h ‚Äî The lord of a Trikona house will during 
his Dasa and in a Bhukti of the lord of a Kendra house, 
and viceversa produce good effects. Even if the said 
two plan ale are not in any way connected {vide XV-30, 
siiprc7, they will not cause harm. 

Sloka 0‚Äô0.~ Jupiter and Venus if they should happen 
to be owners of Kendras become powerful to cause 
evil. If they should also ocupy (or own) Makara houses 
(2nd and 7th), they become powerful to cause death. 

I 

Shk 1 bl . ‚Äî Mercury (if he should happan to own 
Kendra houses) is less powerful (than Jupiter and 



SI. 52-56 


217 


‚Äî 

Venus in doing evil). 'The Moon in such a condition 
comes next to Mercury, Malefics when they happen 
to own Kendras will become more and more auspicious 
in their effects. 

%% rtHtirfr i 

Sloka 52 . ‚Äî ^If Rahu and Ketu should be posited in a 
Kendra or Trikona they and become Yogakarakas, i.e., 
instrumental in (doing) bringing about good to the 
native if they are connected (v /c/e XV-SO, sL'pro) with 
the lord of one of these (Kendra and Trikona . 

i 

3TP?r|-?jrT3^ttaT ¬•r%<TT 

Sloka 6J.~~If Rahu and Ketu occupy houses owned 
by benefics and are connected (vide XV- 30, supra) with 
any planet, they become auspicious and produce good 
results at their Bhuktis in the main Dasa of the said 
planet. 

^ is another reading in the first 

line. 

ir¬´t?Tf?cr ii'-'yii 

Sloka During the Dasa of a Ycgakaraka planet, 
the Rajayoga begins when the Bhuktis of the Karaka 
planets are in progress. The Bhuktis of malefics which 
succeed them ii their turn increase the same. 

Sloka 50‚Äî1 he following wi\l engender misery to 

28 



218 


Adh. XX 


the native : (1) the planet occupying the 8ih house ; 
(2) the one aspecting it ; (3) the one owning it; (4) the 
one owning the decanate of the 8th house ; and (5) the 
planet owning the sign occupied by Mandi 

Even among these, the one that is the weakest will be 
the killer of the i^ative and this may happen in his 
Dasa or 3T<T5K (Apahara), 

vriicm i 

Sloka 56 , ‚Äî The Dasa of a planet fallen from exalta- 
tion is termed (Avarohini) or descending; 

while that of a planet in a friend's or exaltation house 
is named (Madhya) or middling. The Dasa of a 
planet proceeding from his depression is called 
(Arohini) or rising. The Dasa of a planet that 
is actually in his depression or inimical Rasi or in his 
depression or inimical Amsa (^4^) is termed 
(Adhama) or worst. 

rT??r ?f5Tr f^¬´rqF:5ri ii'^'sii 

Sloka 57. ‚Äî When a planet even if eclipsed or posited 
in its depression or inimical house occupies an 
auspicious sign or Amsa his Dasa should be 

pronounced as of mixed effect ‚Ä¢ Misra phala) 

and is capable of giving good effect in the latter half of 
the Dasa. 

Sloka 58.-^Death fof the relative signified by the 
particular Bhava) will take place in the main Dasa oi 



SI. 59-62 


21.9 


fsr^ftJT^rPT! 

the planet in the 12th house (reckoned from that 
Bhava) or of the one owning it whichever is weaker. 

Sloka 59 . ‚Äî If the lord of the Dasa in his transit comes 
to the Lagna or if the 3rd, the 6th, the 10th or the 
11th house from it, or if the lord of the Dasa comes to 
the Sapthavarga places of the Lagna or when 

a friendly planet or a benefic comes to the Lagna, the 
Dasa will prove auspicious at that time. 

¬´JT^f?rr gr'T^f&r ^ wi f5TT¬ªT%: h: i 

Sloka 60 . ‚Äî During the several periods over which a 
Dasa may extend, the good or evil effect is to be deter- 
mined with reference to the particular house counted 
from the Moon which the lord of the Dasa may occupy 
for the time being in its progress through its orbit. 

Sloka 6 !, ‚Äî The Moon produces beneficial effects 
when in the house of a friend of the lord of the Dasa ; 
or in the exaltation house of the latter or in the 7th 
house, a Trikona house or in any one of the 
(Upachaya) houses with reference to the 
(Dasanatha) lord of the Dasa. 

^ ?I%: 

5E?n^-flr^i5!r¬•r^^f^>:rJTTf^W5r: i 

sTTiorr 

?ri3rTq5Tfq^^cr^:‚ÄôCr%^f¬´T: II 



220 


‚Ä¢K^f^rart 


Adh. XX. 


SIokT 62 . ‚Äî In the favourable positions mentioned in 
the previous Sloka, the Rasi occupied by the Moon 
should represent some one of the 12 Bhavas, Lagna, 
wealth, etc., at the time of birth. The Moon in one of 
these favourable ' positions promotes prosperity in 
respect of the Bhava represented by the Rasi occupied. 
In the unfavourable positions, the Bhava represented 
by the Rasi (occupied by the Moon) suffers damage. 

strait?!‚Äô srsr^^nnrm i 

^riT 

Sloka 63 . ‚Äî In the case of a nativity, one ought to 
guess the effects after a reference to Saravali, Varaha- 
mihira's Hora Sastra and the Nakshatra Dasa. While 
so guessing, one must refer also to the positions of the 
planets with reference to the Lagna at the time of the 
query or the (Janma Rasi) or Lagna at birth 

and then attempt his predictions. There will not be 
any material difference between the Prasna Lagna and 
the Janma Lagna. (in the matter of the predictions.) 

Thus ends the 20th Adhyaya on the "Dasas of the 
several Bhava lords and their Bhuktis" in the 
work Phaladeepika composed by 
Mantreswara 



SI. 1-2 


221 



3TTfitfirvn¬ªT5r^ cT? sr^f^Tr i 

?rr^iT^a ?F¬´r^f^5Tt?cTn?<TTif^ mu 

ADHYAYA XXI. 

Nature of Bhuktis and Antaras. 

Sloka 7 ‚Äî -I shall now clearly explain how to appor- 
tion the Bhukti periods in a Dasa and their further sub- 
divisons as also their effects in their order. Whatever 
has been here described as effect in the case of any 
planet, all that should be stated to occur in the planet's 
Dasa, in his Bhukti and in his Antara. 

*TTl:5Tr5i?¬ß-rn 

?r?:Tf Bri:^T jn^TT i 

?n¬´n?n 3;iT'HT:i!=rn:^5rie?Ti^?rT¬´i?F:Tii; irii 

Shka 2 . ‚Äî Multiply the years of a Mahadasa by the 
years of the planet whose Antardasa is required. Divide 
the product by 120. The quotient will represent the 
years of the Antardasa. Multiply the remainder by 12 
and divide the result by 120. The quotient will repre 
sent the months ‚Äî multiply the remainder by 30 and 
divide by 120. The quotient will give the days, and 
so on. The same process should be adopted for calcu- 
lating the sub-periods in an Antardasa, or their further 
sub-divisions. In anv Dasa, the order of the Bhuktis is 
similar to that in the Dasas the first Bhukti commenc- 
ing with that of its lord. 



Adh. XXI 

. ^ ^ 

t:%; 

Ji^>arn5T5r¬´T^sf^¬´R ^Tsrt 
^=^?s!i5rgr^i% ¬´imTr¬ªTJ[ i 
7^'i:tJT^¬ª3r?T^fl[?ltTr jf w 
fsrsrf ^arr srfw5rf^*cft¬´far^BT^ ii^ll 

5io/:a 3.‚Äî During the Dasa and Bhukti of the Sun, 
the person concerned will obtain fame through royal 
favor, lead a wandering life through a wild and hifly 
country and will acquire wealth. He will suffer from 
fever, illness caused by excessive heat and may also 
lose his father. 

iT5^?rt s^TTsraTTTt ^faiiTar i 

5r?ft iiyii 

w 

Sloka ^.-‚ÄîWhen the Moon has her Bhukti during the 
progress of the Sun's Dasa, the person will destroy his 
enemies; his miseries will come to an end and there 
will be accession of wealth. He will be engaged 
in agriculture, house building and will be joined v/ith 
friends. If the Moon be malefic, he will suffer from 
consumption, have fire accident and diseases arising 
from water. 

^jrrJTJT: ^^rfr^srlrrlraf^r i 

Shka 5.‚Äî Wken Mars has his Apahara in the Sun's 
Dasa, the person concerned will suffer from diseases 
and wounds ; there will be loss of position and trouble 
from enemies, misunderstandings with his relations, 
danger from the authorities and loss of wealth. 

is another reading in the first line. 



SI. 6-l0 \ 223- 


Sloka 6.‚Äî During Rahu's Bhukti in the Sun's Dasa, 
fresh enemies will spring up, wealth will be destroyed 
or stolen, troubles will arise and there will be danger 
from poison and a desire to please the senses (sensual 
pleasures). The native will suffer from severe head- 
ache and eye-complaints. * 

Sloka 7. ‚Äî Destruction of enemies, acquisition of 
money through various means, worshipping the Gods 
every day, adoration of the Brahmins, elders and rela- 
tions, disease in the ear, and pulmonary consumption 
will disiinguish the Antardasa of Jupiter during the 
Sun's Mahadasa, 

Sloka 8 , ‚Äî ^During the Bhukti of Saturn in the Sun's 
Dasa, a person should be prepared for loss of wealth, 
separation from his children, diseases of women, or 
loss of.elders, abnormal expenditure, sudden loss of 
cloths, utensils and other goods, or servants, excessive 
filth and suffering from phelgmatic troubles. 

^%T¬´rr55r^i3[ ii¬´mi 

Shka 9 . ‚Äî At the time when Mercury's Bhukti 
in the Sun's Dasa is in progress, the person will suffer 
from cutaneous eruption ^itches), boil (ulcer', leprosy, 
jaundice, passing wind {^un(soi sur. uj psin in the 

belly, hips, etc., destruction of land] arici disease 
arisiVg from the vitiation of the three humours. 

wearer: Tip-lBr; 1 

fsT# ^Tfr 5 r?rf 11 ‚Ä¢.‚Äò‚Ä¢ii 



224 ^ Adh. Xxl 

S!oka iO.‚Äî Loss of friends, misunderstandings with 
one's relations and family, trouble from enemies, loss 
of wealth and position/ sickness to elders, severe 
pain in the leg as well as the head ‚Äî all these may be 
expected in Ketu's Bhukti in the Sun's Mahadasa. 

wcrf^^rt?:w?srsr?ftgr "Uii 

Sloka IL ‚Äî Pain in the head, belly-ache, trouble 
in the anus, doing agricultural operations, loss of 
house, wealth and corn, sickness to children and wife 
in an intense form ‚Äî all these will occur when the 
Bhukti of Venus in the Sun's Mahadasa is in progress. 

^iT3nfk?:JT5rt5j^tnift vrir^ i 

Sloka 12.‚Äî 'When the Moon's Bhukti in his own 
Dasa is in progress, a new daughter will be born; there 
will be acquisition of a new and clean cloth, and meet- 
ing with good Brahmins. The native will be able to 
satisfy his mother's desires [i.e , mother will be happy,) 
and will enjoy the happiness of the couch (woman's 
company) 

Sloka 13 , ‚Äî During the Bhukti of Mars in the Moon's 
Dasa, the person will suffer from diseases arising from 
bile, fire and (impurity of) blood, from anxiety, and 
misery and there will be trouble from enemies and 
thieves. There- will further be loss of wealth and 
honour. 

hiyii 

> 



SI. 15-n 




Sloka 14, ‚Äî During the advent of Rahu's Bhukti 
the Moon's Dasa, there will occur a severe reproach 
or fault, increase of enemies, diseases to relations, 
danger from thunder-storm lightning and illness and 
fever caused by bad food and drink. 

^r3T^rfrf?T?:rft5i 3Ti5T% 3^ iiI'aii 

Sloka i5>--During Jupiter's Bhukti in the Moon's 
Dasa, the person concerned will take great delight in 
making gifts and other beneficent actions. He will 
begin to feel happy, wear new cloths and ornaments. 
He will meet with friends and be highly honoured by 
the king. 

i 

irr<iT5:rffr5t:icr3rr Tr%s?cr?:n 

Sloka IS. ‚Äî ^Trouble through various kinds of 
diseases, sickness to friends, children and wife, the 
happening of a great calamity or loss of life will mark 
the Apahara of Saturn during the progress of the 
Moon's Mahadasa. 

is aiiotliur J-Ciuling foi; in tlio 

lii‚Äôsfc liuo. Tliu U'lUislitUoii wil! be ‚Äú-\ iMulliludu of bilious alloa- 
tious‚Äù 

g^¬ªT3Tr9sriftf:wsTimtivrT'3THt^?rm<iT: ‚Ä¢ 

iTRr^% IK'511 

Sloka 17,‚ÄîDu.xing the Bhukti of Mercury in the 
Moon's Dasa, there will be acquisition at all times ot 
wealth, elephants, horses, cattle and ornaments and 
much happ:ness will be felt. Clearness of conception 
will also arise 

^.#-29 , 



2'26 

; ... Y . 

g'Tf^'ws^ii; iil^ii 

Sloka 18 .‚Äî During Ketu's interval in the Moon's 
Dasa will crop up loss of mental balance, wealth and 
relations, dangerVom water and trouble to dependants 
and servants. 

rflq‚Äò?rT;Tig:t5vj;TorTf i 

3^f^3rgg;'4r??r^3%KrP3r2rj?T5?:Dii;5% WK^w 

Sloka / 9 . -During the period of time allotted to 
Venus in the Moon's Dasa, activities relating to the 
following will take place chased or sold away: viz., 
water, carriage, gold, jewels, women, trade agricultural 
operations etc., he will acquire children, friends, cattle, 
and corn. 

T:!jTWTfr?riTdTgr ^5:?rT i 

cT^T IRoll 

Sloka :?0. --'During the Sun's Bhukti in the Moon's 
Mahadasa, honor from the sovereign, excessive 
valour, cessation of diseases, downfall or decline of 
the enemy's side and diseases caused by bile and wind 
may be expected. 


Adh. XX f 


f:iT?T 

%5Tsr9T9r3T^crpiBr^^%: i 

^#?5rTJr 


Sloka 21. ‚Äî During Mars' own interval in the planet's 



SI. 22-24 nTfn%5ftswrT?r! 227 

^ ‚Äô ‚Äô 

Mahadasa, there will be suffering from diseases arising 
out of excess of bile and heat, trouble from wounds, 
separation from brothers, influx of money etc., due on 
account of lands and litigations and trouble from 
cousins, fire, enemies, the sovereign and thieves. 

. f 

-^iriTfRrqT^ \r<^\\ 

Sloka 22.‚Äî During Rahu's Bhiikti in Mars' Dasa 
there will be danger from weapons, fire, thieves 
enemies and rulers, injury from poison, disease in the 
belly, eyes, the head, loss of elders and relations, peril 
to one's own life or big calamities. 

^rTTrf^fiSf^irT 3^^‚Äô5rTf5rf^: i 

Sloka 23. ~During Jupiter's interval in Mars' Maha- 
dasa, the person will worship the Brahmanas and Gods, 
will resort to sacred places and shrines, and do 
meritorious deeds, will show hospitality to guests at 
all times, will acquire new children and friends, will 
suffer from ear disease in a severe form or from 
phlegmatic complaint. 

¬ªTR:RrJrTtjT: ^JTsr^tg^trrT- 
f ^¬´rTT% iRyii 



22B 'FT^^Rr^nn Adh. XXI 

c* 

Sloka 24 , ‚Äî ^Trouble after trouble to one's children, 
wife and elders, calamities beyond number, grief, loss 
of wealth, robbing of wealth through enemies, fear and 
sickness through heat and wind, will mark Saturn's 
Bhukti in the Mahadasa of Mars. 

Sloka 2S , ‚Äî ^Fear of enemies, much trouble from 
thieves, loss of wealth, destruction of cattle, elephants 
and horses, association with enemies, harassment by 
kings or enmity with Sudras mark the interval of 
Mercury in Mars' Mahadasa. 

3nirRrvr^rjr^?5t?r^f?r5!?5rsrTft^T 
f^irirqTrsii i 

3T¬ªT¬ªTFR;TW%?Tt ^Rcft RffTICT: 
srf^^rRr %g: ^?:%iTr3T:fcrn IR^II 

Sloka 26, ‚Äî When Ketu has his interval in Mars' 
Dasa, there will be danger from thunder, bolt, sudden 
trouble from fire and weapon, going out of one's own 
country or loss of wealth, and exit from the world 
either of his own self or of his wife. 

5^1 3rRrrrfi|JTR Brsnrr^; 

5Rr‚ÄôT?:Ti% vrnf%?jr: ir^ii 

S/oka 27 . ‚Äî Defeat in battle, residence in a foreign 
country, theft of property by thieves, trouble in tho left 



51. 28-30 


229 

eye and loss of servants will be what a person may 
expect in the Bhukti of Venus in Mars' Dasa. 

f^cTTTT^rf^^ TR:¬´iftf?r lR<iil 

Sloka 28. ‚Äî Honour from the sovereign, fame and 
power got in war, acquisition of servants, wealth, 
corn, women and harem and the widening of the scope 
for livelihood and wealth got through daring deeds 
or force are what may be expected in the Sun's 
Apahara in Mars' Dasa. 

^loka 29,‚Äî Acquisition of various kinds of wealth 
and children, severance from enemies, acquisition 
of cloths, bed, ornaments, jewels and wealth, 
trouble to elders, and pain owing to enlargement of 
spleen or excess of bile may mark the Moon's Bhukti 
in Mars' Mahadasa^ 





‚Ä¢ Sloka 30. ‚Äî Illness through poison and water, com- 
ing in sight of a venomous serpent, intercourse with 
another's wife, separation from or loss of one's near 
and dear ones, bad words and ^nental anguish through 



230 qve!#7¬´FT?rt Adh. XXI 

wicked people will be the characteristic features of 
Rahu's Bhukti in Rahu's Dasa. 

finairarT ^TJnirJT: i 

w3¬ªiq-5xi^rsifRr=iTr?:H5VT^: ii^lll 

Sloka 31.‚Äî Advent of happiness, worship of Gods 
and Brahmins freedom from diseases, association with 
charming ladies and discussion of the meanings of 
sacred texts will mark Jupiter's Bhukti in Rahu's Dasa. 

^m?:FqTr2r‚ÄôTT:!i7rrr^#T Brjrs;: i 

Slok ; 3.?. *-I)i3 ring Saturn's interval in Rahu's Dasa, 
a di3ea?:e dne io the vitiation of wind and bile, wounds 
in the body, misunderstandings with one's children, 
wife or brothers, destruction of servants, and loss of 
position are what may crop up. 

Sloka 33. ‚Äî ^Acquisition of children and wealth, 
meeting of friends, gross cntemptibleness of the mind, 
cleverness in doing any intelligent business, adorn- 
ment and skill in general will mark Mercury's Bhukti 
in Rahu's Dasa 

^TaroTiRr: f ii^yii 

Sloka 3^. ‚ÄúDuring Ketu's Bhukti in Rahu's Dasa, 
one has to apprehend fever, trouble from fire, weapon 
and enemies, head ache, trembling of the body, injury 
to one's friends and elders, suffering caused by poison 
and wounds and quarrel with one's friends. 

sRoyqfwfsq:; srq'jftT'^Kcrr i 



SI. 36-39 231 


Sloka 3S. ‚Äî Acquisition of a wife, comforts of the 
couch, horses, elephants, lands, and phlegmatic and 
windy disorders, and quarrel with one's own rela- 
tions, will mark the Bhukti of Venus in Rahu's 
Mahadasa. 

Sloka 36.‚Äî During the Sun's Bhukti in Rahu's Maha- 
dasa, there will be trouble from enemies, intense pain 
in the eyes, danger from poison, fire and hit by wea- 
pons, and the springing up of fresh troubles. The wife 
and children will suffer from diseases and there will be 
great trouble from the king. 

^^flrq‚ÄôRrs ^sTt^Tfific 

Sloka 37.--‚ÄúLoss of the wife, quarrels, mental anguish, 
agricultural operations, loss of wealth, cattle and chil- 
dren, disaster to friends, and danger from water will 
mark the Moon's Bhukti in Rahu's Mahadasa. 

f^rq'srsT^ir-r ^qrivrr 3r: 

Sloka 38. ‚Äî During Mars' interval in Rahu's Dasa, 
one has to apprehend danger from the sovereign, fire, 
thieves and weapons, or one's own death through a 
terrible disease, disturbance to one's position, heart 
and eye-troubles. 





f^Tcjsr^rRr^rgfjfl'q‚ÄôRrq:^# g- 1 



232 Adh. XX* . 


Sloka 39.-^Good luck, splendour, high esteem, 
development of good qualities, acquisition of a good 
son, honour from the sovereign, coming in contact 
with one's preceptor, good men and realisation of one's 
desires are what a person may expect in Jupiter's Dasa 
and Bhukti, 

lf4f^5Tt iT‚Äôrmrq; iiyoii 

Sioka 40.‚Äî During Saturn's Bhukti in Jupiter's Dasa, 
association with courtezans, taking to intoxicating 
drinks and such other evil deeds, rising to eminence 
happiness, sickness to one's family and cattle heavy 
expenses, excessive fear, eye complaints and sickness 
to children are what a person has to be prepared for. 

Sloka When Mercury's Bhukti is in progress in 
Jupiter's Mahadasa, one will come to grief through 
women gambling, and drinking, and will suffer from 
diseases caused by the vitiation of the three humours. 
This is the opinion of some. Others consider that the 
effect will be solely beneficial by the worship of Gods 
and Brahmins and by the acquisition of or association 
with sons, wealth and happiness. 

srronsf 

Sloka 42 ‚Äî During Ketu's interval in Jupiter's Maha* 
dasa, one has to suffer from wounds caused by a 
weapon. There will arise misunderstandings with the 
servants, mental anguish, trouble to wife and ohiidren. 



51. 43-46 it^Ffwtsv-jrrtr: 2o.s 

danger to life and loss of lor separation from) elders oi 
friends. 

^^flr3n=^¬ªTgTT?TSTrT?‚Äôi^‚Äò?grmgr^r)¬ªT ny'<ii 

S!oka /.'.‚Äî'Acquisition of various materials, cattle, 
corn, clotbos, utensils, woman, children, food, drink, 
couch (bed) and ornaments, worshipping of Gods and 
Brahmins and entire devotion to them are to be looked 
for in Sukra's interval in Jupiter's Mahadasa. 

Sloka i/. Victory, honour from the sovereign, 
acquisition of fame, warmth oi temi^er, men, horses 
and other vehicles and an exliemely prosperous life in 
a street (consisting of rows of houses), a fown, or coun- 
try will mark the Sun's Bhukti in Jupiloi's Mahadcisa. 

frT;qrsa-?r^gT7Srl5rrr5feTRT?!rTW: ' 

3!oku .‚Äô.-'Acquisition of many damsels, desli ac- 
tion of enemies, gain of money, profit in agriculture, 
saleable commodities, high fame and intence devotion 
in the worship of Gods and Brahmins will mark Moon's 
interval in Jupiter's Mahadasa 



Acih. XXI 

Sloka Sdtislying the relations, addition of 

wealth from a host of enemies, acquisition of good 
lands, doing beneficent acts, celebrity of power, a 
little injury to a preceptor or elder, or a severe hurt to 
the eye, are what a person- may look for in Mar's inter- 
val in Jupiter's M^hadasa. 

qrr i 

Slok-j /. . Distress through relations, excessive 
mental anguish, sickness, danger from thieves, disease 
to one's elders or to youngsters of his family, trouble 
from the sovereign, misfortune through enemies, and 
loss of wealth will mark Rahu's Bhukti in Jupiter's 
Mahadasa. 

5T%: 

Sloka /ii'.-Incxease in agriculture, servants and 
buffaloes, windy disease, acquisition of much money 
through a person of the Sudra caste, friendship with an 
old woman, laziness and sinful action are what Saturn 
can bring on in his own Dasa and Bhukti. 

Sloka -i9.‚Äî During Mercury's interval in Saturn's 
Dasa a person will have prosperity, happiness, female 
society, honour from the sovereign, success and com- 
pany of friends ; he will suffer from diseavses arising 



SI- ^-^35 

from the three humours. His brothers and children 
will be troubled with sickness. 

Sloka 50.‚Äî During Ketu's interval* in Saturn's Maha- 
dasa, the person becomes liable to disease caused by 
wind and fire, trouble from enemies, a tendency to 
always quarrel with his sons and wife, meeting with 
something inauspicious, and danger from serpents. 

Sloka 5L ‚Äî During Sukra's Bhukti in Saturn's Maha- 
dasa, the person will be happy with his friends, wife 
and children, and there will be increase of wealth due 
to agriculture and sea voyage and he will become 
widely renowned. 

inw g m jrj¬ª^?r‚Ç¨-3Tr i 

Sloka 52, ‚Äî Death or danger at all times from ene 
mies, sickness to elders, disease in the belly and eyes, 
loss of wealth and corn, a person has to experience 
during the Sun's Bhukti in Saturn's Mahadasa. 

goiT a¬ªT¬´T¬´r¬ªi; i 

^T^riTfftw ¬•T%?‚Äòfgr3rrf^:iBr^Rr iih^ii 

Sloka 53. ‚Äî ^Loss of wife or danger to one's own life, 
trouble to friends, danger from diseases, and intense 
fear from water and wind may be expected during the 
Moon's Bhukti in the Dasa of Saturn. 



236 XXI 

Sloka 5*/.‚Äî Loss of one's position, quarrel with one's 
relations, serious illness, trouble from fever, fire, wea- 
pon or poison, increase of enemies, hernia and trouble 
to the eyes will mark the interval of Mars in Saturn's 
Mahadasa. 

5gr<TTTiTfi^rrF?=r5r ii^Wi 

Shka ‚Äú Going in crooked ways, loss of life or 
danger from diabetes or gonorrhoea, severe enlarge- 
merit of the spleen, a continuous fever, or wound are 
what a person may have to suffer from during Rahu's 
Bhukti in the Dasa of Saturn. 

fr ^orr im‚ÄôiH 

Sloka 5d. Delight in worshipping Gods and Brah- 
mins, pleasure in living in one's own house in the 
company of his wife and children, and phenomenal 
increase ci wealth and corn are what a person will 
l ave durincT Jupiter's Bhukti in Saturn's Dasa. 

vi^jTmfirr'Wr^‚ÄôTrarrt rcrjrf7v^t*4fT i 

f-raptn *=T=rr ii‚Äô-'JII 

Devotion to virtue, association with the 
learned, a clear intellect (an unbiassed mind), acquisi- 
tion of money through Brahmins, great fame through 
learning and continuous happiness may be looked for 
in Mercury's Bhukti in his own Mahadasa. 



. 51 . 


Sloka 58.‚Äî Misery, sorrow, quarrel, perplexity, shak- 
ing in the body, association with unfriendly people, 
and loss of lands and vehicles are to be expected dur- 
ing Ketu's interval in Mercury's Dasa. 







S:oka 0 ‚Äô 9 .- Adoration of Gods, Brahmanas and 
reverend seniors, offering of acceptable presents, devo- 
tion to duty conformable to religion and morality, 
addition of clothes and ornaments and meeting of 
friends will mark Sukra's interval in the Dasa of 
Mercury. 


l:irf^3rJTgr^qrFnrjrTf ^^7riTvrqT;^f i 

Sloka ('{l‚ÄîGold, coral, horses, and elephants will 
be got and secured in a house ; there will be good 
food and drink and honour from the sovereign. All 
these may be expected in the Sun's Bhukti in 
Mercury's Mahadasa. 


cnrRr ii 

Sioki 67 . -Head ache, eye-complaint, trouble 
through leprosy, ringworm, severe pain in the neck, 
and even danger to life dog the footstep's of a person 
during the Moons' interval in Mercury's Mahadasa. 

3TBr4tRr^:FT i 

Sloka C2. -Danger from fire, trouble to the eye, 
fear of thieves, excessive misery, loss of position and 



23B Adh. XXI 

windy disease are what a person may expect during 
Kuja's Bhukti in Mercury's Mahadasa. , 

TT^5Kr%3r5?:sT¬´ft^^ Wkw 

Sloka 63 . ‚Äî Loss of honour or a fall from one's 
position, destruction to one's own self (or loss of 
wealth ?), danger from fire, poison v or through water, 
head-ache, eye-complaint or trouble in the belly, mark 
Rahu's Bhukti in Mercury's Mahadasa. 

Sloka 64 . ‚Äî Freedom trom sickness, destruction of 
enemies, cessation of fear, success in religious devo- 
tion, honour from the sovereign, success in moral duty, 
and wealth of penance mark Jupiter's Bhukti in Mer* 
cury's Mahadasa. 

w 

Sloka 65 , ‚Äî Heavy loss of wealth and religious merit, 
failure in all business, diseases arising through (dis- 
orders of) phlegm and wind will mark Saturn's Bhukti 
in Mercury's Mahadasa. 

Sloka 66. ‚Äî When Ketu ihas his interval in his own 
Mahadasa, a person has to apprehend quarrel with ene- 
mies, misunderstanding with friends, hearing of bad 
words, burning sensation in the limbs due to fever, 
fafarusion to other's houses and destruction of wealth. 



‚Ä¢Sl.67-71 ^^0 


%?n ^^v?: ^gfrarsrlrTif^ 1 

Krftvr^sriTJT ¬´irtiT?ntrt ii^'^ii 

Sloka 67 , ‚Äî Quarrel with a great Brahmin, misunder* 
standing with one's wife and even with his own rela- 
tions, birth of a daughter, humiliation, and annoyance 
from others are what one should be prepared for in 
Sukra's Bhukti in Ketu's Mahadasa. 

*T^3rw?:or ^5r5r^Rr5ctvini%5T?rR5yTvi: i 

5j7^5r¬´K5rc: %%grr¬´Fr^i?cRT5rw 

Sloka 65.- -Death of a reverend elder, fever, mis- 
understanding with one's relation, gain through foreign 
travel, fighting a rebellion lor the king, diseases caus- 
ed by phlegm and wind are likely to crop up during 
the Sun's interal in Ketu's Dasa. 

f cT^j^T ?-T^r: 5rf f i 

TiTiww^^$T3rw5rw. iiVMi 

Sloka 69. --Windfalls and unexpected loss of wealth, 
separation from one's son, a laboured delivery that 
engenders much sorrow, acquisition of servants and 
female children, all these are to be looked tor in the 
Moon's Bhukti in Ketu's Dasa. 

vr^rirf^ q^irjr i 

f?T^¬´T^5Tftft¬´5r ^ sr3r% 

Sloka 70. ‚Äî Quarrel with the members of one's own 
family, destruction of one's relations, danger from ser- 
pents, thieves and fire, and trouble from enemies are 
what a person has to incur during Kuja's Bhukti in 
Ketu's Dasa. 

3Tf^^?ni;555 ?nsffT: I 

Sloka 72.‚Äî Quarrel caused by enemies, danger from 
the sovereign, fire, thieves and serpents, remarks from 



Adh. XX i 

wicked people, working spells for the injury of another 
person {o^^^rujih) are to be expected in Rahu's Bhukti in 
Ketu's Mahadasa. 

VI^^?T3TJTff II^S'<I1 

Sloka 7;:,‚Äô. -Birth of a very good son, adoration of 
the chief of Gods, income through lands or finding of a 
treasure, money through acceptance of presents, influx 
of a large sum of money, and honour from the sovereign 
may be looked for in Jupiter's Bhukti in Ketu's Dasa. 

‚Ä¢TPCsrJTf^^‚Äôpr tTTTTfTt'T =sr 1 

cT^rif^^rr li jsii 

Sloka Trouble to, or from, servants, annoyance 
to or from, others, quarrel with enemies and the break- 
ing of some limb thereby, loss of money .and loss of 
position are, say the wise, to be expected in Saturn's 
interval in Ketu's Mahadasa. 

/j/f, .vc; 7 /. - Birth of a very good son, appreciation 
from a big wealthy lord, monetary gain from lands, 
trouble from the chief of the enemies loss in cattle and 
loss in agricultural operations are to be expected in 
Mercury's Bhukti in Ketu's Mahadasa. 


Sloka 75 ‚Äô.‚Äî Clothing, ornaments, vehicle perfumes 
and the like and comforts of the couch will a person 
have in plenty besides bodily splendour and wealth 
from the sovereign in Sukra's Bhukti in Sukra's Maha- 
dasa. 



.SI. '? 6-80 241 

fV5K'TT5r*T^T?rsi: %raJim iT^HT^rT ^T^tfirorni 1 
i3^f:5rt5rer^T?^5[tfr¬•fT *TrgJT% ii^^ii 

Shoka 76.- In the Suii'a Bhukti in thp Dasa of VenuSr 
a person becomes liable to diseases affecting the eyas, 
the belly and the cheeks, danger from the sovereign 
and trouble from elders, members of his faniily and 
other relations. 

rf^r ti^>5ii 

.J .. Kj /, . - When the Moon has her interval in th¬´ 
Dasa of Venus, a person suffers much pain from a 
disease due to an inflammation in Ihe nails, head and 
teeth, sickness arising from wind and bile, or loss ot 
wealth or trouble through diarrluxia, disease of the 
spleen or ccnsumptioii. 

Sloka 77, Trouble through flow of blood and bile, 
acquisition of gold and copper, acquisition of lands, 
seduction of a young female and loss oi one's appoint 
ment are whal may be expected in Kuja's Bhukti in the 
Dasa of Venus. 

f^tfiurgr: i 

Sloka 7y.. Acquisition of a treasure, birth of a son, 
good news, honour to or from relatives, imprisonment 
of enemies and injury from fire, thieves and poison 
may be expected in Rahu's Bhukti in the Mahadasa of 
Venus, 

^yrvi^5jV?[i?r¬ªTr^5T:5ri =grTcfl3TqtJi?:*n¬ªTir; t 

^ ?rr/^ft:nTT U'A} 

ft 3i. 



Adh. XXlI 

'Sbka cO.-‚Äî Performance of one's various religious 
duties, worshipping of Gods, enjoying the company of 
his wife and children, and enjoyments derivable from 
his position of authority will mark the Bhukti of Jupiter 
in the Mahadasa of- Venus. . 

;;/o/:a 81. Honour from the city fathers, the military 
(H police or from the sovereign, acquisition of an 
excellent damsel, influx of wealth and various materi- 
uleiisils and comforts requisite for enjoyment 
Will mark Saiurii's Bhukti in the Mahadasa of Venus. 

'Tgfrr'TTTf:''Or^?:R^2F<T^g5TITI?3l^!}TIffe ll-i^ll 

h'/. /; j d2. During Mercury's interval in the Dasa of 
Vcuius, a persion secures the comfort of his sons, will 
hcive Iiappiness on a large ‚Äò^cale, great power and fame 
and destruction of enemies; but he will be troubled 

by sickness through diseases arising from wind and 
bile. 

iTf'T ^ IK^Il 

. '/o o k During Ketuhs Bhukti in the Mahadasa of 
Venus, a person will be destitute of children and happi- 
ness, will suffer much from danger through fire: he 
will further suffer losses and disease in some limb, and 
will associate with courtezans. 

%5r3 3r?'K5yrm: 



;Tm^ra!fTtr^?Tr!r: 



51. Bd-2 ‚Äò2-1^ 

Sloka 84, ‚Äî What has been stated as the effect in 
each of the Bhuktis of a Dasa should be so declared as 
to suitably fit in with the person's caste, status, occu- 
pation, etc. In a similar way should results be attempt- 
ed for each Antaxa or Ant^rantara ; *or, the effects may 
also be foretold after guessing correctly the particular 
Dasa then ruling by means of the characteristics reveal- 
ed (exhibited) at the time in the native's poison by the 
elements (Panchabhutas Fire, Air, Ether, Water and 
Earth) through Eyes, Touch, Ears, Face and Nose; or 
by hearing the words emanating at the time. 

Thus ends the 21st Adhyavii on the ‚Äú8ul)-Divisions ol' Diisas, 
viz., Bhuktis, Antaras, Antarnniaras etc.‚Äù in the work Plialadec- 
]u*ka composed by Mantroswava. 


II II 

M It 

^ror^sir qiT^;T5Tt53T?TRT?T. lan 

ADHYAYA XXIi. 

Sloka 2.‚Äî The triad of stars reckoned from Aswini 
should be cast by quarters in the ( Apasavya) or 

sr^fi^iTr (Pradakhina) order from Mesha to Meena among 
the 12 Basis to which the Navamsas composing the 
traid belong. Again, the 12 quarters of the triad 
reckoned from Rohini are to be assigned to the 12 
Basis counted from Vrischika to Dhanus in the 
(Savya-reverse, - Apradakhina or anti-clock 

wtse) order. 

v|?ri¬´r<T^T54 5sr sfrm Bj?nr^i)nr i 

inf; ii'-ii 



-fv^ -X 


5U 


Adh. XXIt. 


Sloka 2. ‚Äî Thus are the triads of stars reckoned in 
their order (from Aswini) to be distinguished as 
^Apasavya) and (Savya). The years assigned to 
a planet constitute the Dasa-period of the Rasi owned 
by that planet. This is the peculiarity in the 
fKalachakra} system, say the wise. 

Shka - 5, 21, 7, 9, 10, 16 and 4 are the numbers 
representing the period in years respectively of the 
seven planets reckoned from the Sun, and are the 
means (sources) for feeling the good and bad effects. 

liyil 

Sbka ^ ‚Äî In this Kalachakra system consisting of 
Dasas, Apaharas, etc , I shall now expound the formulas 
for the several Nakshatra padas from Aswini onwards. 
Every such formula con.sists of nine syllables indicat* 
ing by their number <^as per ^OTqT^'‚Äú'Katapayadi 
mnemonics) the particular Rasyapaharas composing the 
Dasa of the Nakshatrapada under consideration, and 
consequently the total life-period appertaining thereto 
bv means of the years allotted to the several Rasi 
owners. 

‚ô¶fir r? g J 

ii'^n 


Siok. } 6‚Äô, -For those born in the first (Pada) of 
Aswini, the first sub-period belongs to Mesha-Mars ; 
the second to Vrishabha- Venus ; the third to Mithufla- 
Mercury ; the fourth to Kataka-Moon ; the fifth to 
Simba-Sun ; the sixth to Kanya-Mercury ; the seventh 
t<? TuU*V¬´nus; the 8th to Vrischika ‚Ä¢ Mars ; and 



215 


SI- 6 

the 9th to Dhanur-Jupiter. For the 2nd tfr^ (Pada) 
of Aswini, the sub-periods are owned by (1) Makara- 
Saturn {2) Kuihbha - Saturn (3) Meena - Jupiter (4) 
Vrischika-Mars (5) Tula-Venus (6' Kanya-Mercury (7) 
Kataka-Moon (8) Simha-Suli and (9,) Mithuna- Mercury. 
For the 3rd (Pada) of Aswini, the sub-periods be- 
long to (1) Vrishabha-Sukra (2) Mesha-Kuja (3) Meena- 
Guru (4) Kumbha-Sani (5) Makara-Sani (6) Dhanur- 
Guru (7) Mesha-Kuja (8) Vrishabha-Sukra and (9) 
Mithuna-Budha. For the 4th (Pada) of Aswini, the 
sub-periods are owned by (1) Kataka Chandra (2) 
Simha-Ravi (3) Kanya-Budha (4) Tula-Sukra (5) Vrischi- 
ka-Kuja (6) Dhanur-Guru (7) Makara-Sani (8) Kumbha- 
Sani and (9) Meena-Guru. 

Shka 6.--¬•oi the 1st (Pada) of Bharani, the 
several sub-periods are (1) Vrischika-Kuja (2) Tula. 
Sukra (3) Kanya-Budha (4) Kataka-Chandra (5) Simha- 
Ravi (6) Mithuna-Budha (7) Vrishabha*Sukra (8) Mesha- 
Kuja and (9) Meena-Guru. 

For the 2nd (Pada) of Bharani, the sub-periods 
are (1) Kumbha-Sani (2) Makara-Sani (3) Dhanur-Guru 
( 4 ) Mesha-Kuja (5) Vrishbha-Sukra (6) Mithuna-Budha 
(7) Kataka-Chandra (8) Simha - Ravi and (9) Kanya- 
Budha. 

For the 3rd (Pada) of Bharani, the sub-periods 
are (1) Tula-Sukra (2) Vrischika-Kuja- (3) Dhanur-Guru 
4) ^akara-Sani (5) Kumbha-Sani (6) Meena-Guru (7) 
Vtischika Kuja (8) Tula-Sukra and i9) Kanya Budha. 

The sub-periods of, the 4th tn?f (Pada) of Bharani 
are (D Kataka-Chandra (2) Simha-Ravi (3) Mithuna* 



21(1 Adh. XXI 


Budha (4) V irbab^a Sukra (5) Mesha-Kuja (6) Meena- 
Guru (7) Kuinb'ia-Sani [8) Makara-Sani and (9) Dhanur' 
Guru. p 

S!oka7. ‚Äî The formulas for Aswini and Bharani are 
as described above. The four formulas given for the 
four Padas of A; v.‚Äôini vrill also respectively apply to the 
four Padas of Krittika in the vrq'KToST (Apasavya - 
Pradak-hina) triad. The formulas for Rohini and 
Mriga lira': in the (T avya) triad are stated in the 
next twc hk kasandthe fotir ft rmulas given for the 
four Padav of Irigasiras should also be used again for 
the four Padas of Ardra. 

IKII 

Sloka 8.‚Äî The sub-divisions for the 1st (Pada' of 
Rohini are (1) Dhanur-Guru (2) Makara-Sani (3' Kum- 
bha-Sani (4) Meena-Guru (5) Mesha-Kuja (6) Vrishabha- 
Sukra (7) Mithuna-Budha (8) Simha-Ravi and (9) Kataka- 
Chandra. 

For the 2nd (Pada) of Rohini, the sub-periods 
are(l^ Kanya-Budha (2) Tula Sukra (3) Vrischika-Kuja 
(4) Meena-Guru (5) Kumbha-Sani (6) Makara-Sani (7) 
Dhanur-Guru i8; Vrischika-Kuja and (9) Tula-Sukra. 

For the 3rd (Pada) of Rohini, the sub-periods 
are (‚Äô) Kanya-Budha (2) Simha-Ravi (3) Kataka-Chandra 
(4) Mithuna-Budha (5) Vrishabha-Sukra (6) Mesha-Kuja 
(7) Dhanur-Guru (8) Makara Sani and (9) Kumbha.Sani. 

The 4th qiT (Pada, of Rohini has the following sub- 
periods (1) Meena-Guru (2) Mesha-Kuja (3) Vrishabha- 
Sukra (4) Mithuna-Budha (5) Simha-Ravi (6) Kataka- 



247 


Si. 9-iu 


Chandra (7) Kanya - Budha (8) Tula ‚Ä¢ Sukra and (9) 
Vrischika-Kuja. 

Sloka 9.‚Äî Fox the 1st (Pada) of (Mriga- 

siras\ the sub-periods are (1) Meena-Guru (2) Kumbha- 
Sani (3) Makara-Sani (4) Dhanur-Guru (5) Vrischika- 
Kuja (6) Tula-Sukra (7) Kanya-Budha (8) Simha-Ravi 
and (9) Kataka-Chandra. 

The sub^periods for the 2nd fPada) ofijirBiT? 
(Mrigasiras) are (1) Mithuna-Budha (2) Vrishabha-Sukra 
(3) Mesha-Kuja (4) Dhanur-Gutu (5) Ma]:ara-Sani (6) 
Kumbha-Sani (7) Meena Guru (8) Me::ha-Kuja and (9) 
Vrishabha-Sukra. 

The 3rd (Pada) of (Mrigasiras) has the 

following sub-periods (1) Mithuna-Budha (2) Simha- 
Ravi (3) Kataka-Chandia (4) Kanya Budha (3; Tula- 
Sukra (6) Vrischika Kuja (7) Meena Giuiu (8) Kumbha- 
Sani and (9) Makara Sani- 

The sub periods for the 4th (Fade) of ajrrBnrT^y 
(Mrigasiras) are (1) Dhanur-Guru ^2) Viischika-Kuja 
^3) Tula Sukra (4) Kanya Budha 5j Simha Ravi (6) 
Kataka-Chandra (7) Mithuna-Budha (8) Vrishabha- 
Sukra and (9) Mesha-Kuja. 

^gfsir ‚Äôjsif ^5 tt cr^m?i'TiTr?TT i 

Sloka 10 . ‚Äî The initial Mahadasa of a life belongs 
to the lord of the Rasi owning the Nai shatra Pada 
occupied by the Moon at the time of birth, being so 
much of the Rasi-Mahadasa as corresponds to the 
Ghatikas that yet remain of the Nakshaira pada and 
the order of Mahadasas follows the natural order of tho 



Adh. XXlI 


Nakshatra padas reckoned from the aforesaid one. This 
is the opinion, say the sages, held by some (astrologers). 

¬´TT5rr i 

^ ^ . T?r 

^ ?n^?isKJT <‚Ä¢¬ª ?ii 

Sloka IL There are a number of formulas each 

composed of a number of mnemonic syllables referring 
to the several Nakshatra padas beginning with the first 
pada of Aswini and giving Rasis in a certain order. It 
is with reference to the order of Rasis in these formulas 
that the Rasi Mahadasas of which a life is to consist 
should be determined. The (Vakyakrama) men 

of one school say, should be adhered tc;, 

cT^tsflf ?5TIs=?Tr ||f wn 

Sloka lU. -In the order of Rasis (Vakya- 

krama), the junctions at the end of Kataka, Vrischika 
andMeena give rise to (1) (Manduka Gati) 

(2) 3T>ii (Aswa) or grrr^rf^ (Turaga gati, and (3) 
(Simhavalokana) respectively and the Dasas at these 
intervals cause woeful effects. 

?T5:T^?I5r<¬ªr5T:iT5ftqrfT^?I'T|?^ cTf'T^HTf I 

Sloka 13.‚Äî The Apahara or Bhukti of any of the 
planet constituting a Mahadasa is thus obtained. Find 
out the particular mnemonical syllable (out oi the nine 
syllables) composing a formula whose Bhukti is wanted 
and find out the owner of the Rasi signified by that 
syllable. Multiply the number of years assigned to this 
planet by the number of years fixed for the planet 
whose Mahadasa is under consideration and devide the 
product by the total number of years constituting the 
entire Ayus of the formula or Chakra. The quotient in 
years, etc, will represent the sub period required. 



SI. 14-lG 




240 


u‚Äôlrr'ir ?rff?or ?rr^cq-5cm^^=r i 

?t'TTf#¬´iF iT^?r ¬ªT%^ tT?i^ nV'iii 

II ^r^r^^Tr^srr ii 

Sluka i /.-The total number of years indicated by llie 
sum of the nine mnemonical syllables of any formula 
represents the number (in years) of Parama Ay us lor 
that formula. Thus, the Parama Ayus in years for the 
12 Rasiarnsas reckoned from Mesha in an <>TCr^5?T^5f7 
(Apasavya Chakra) will be 100, 85, 83 and 86 repeated 
thrice, while those for the 12 Rasiarnsas reckoned from 
Vrischika in a (Savya Chakra) will be the same 

but in the reverse order; that is, 1:6, 83, 35 and 100 
repeated thrice. 

I'oi: iiiui'u inl()rmali(;ii, ruftii' Lu ‚ñÝliiiiika/parija.l.a pi). 'J(>u 

Lu .1001. 

u ii 

ITf IT#f?T7T IT^T | 

iiV-'.ii 

SIoLa .ZOV"- Whatever effects have been declared 
before by me in the case of the several Mahadasas, the 
same should be stated by a wise astrologer in the case 
of these Dasas also. 

3T?iT^?q-T:cr?E3 

^^q-RSg^TJTr^gTf Br^T^iPTjaSTST^RTFcTit iR‚Äôill 

Sloka i6. -Ascertain the 5th, the 8tH as well as the 
4th Star from (Janmarksha), i.e., the star occupied 

by the Moon at the time of a person's birth. Cycles of 
Dasas are calculated from every one of these as the 



2i)0 Adh. XXII 


starting point. The Dasa counted from the 5th is called 
i^Trq‚Äô^r (Utpanna) ; that from the Sth, (Adhana) ; 

that from the 4tli, Mahadasa. If the Dasas in these 
cycles have their ends tallying with each other or with 
the end. of the Dasa taken in the same order from 
(Janmarksha), i.e., giving the same number of years, 
months, etc., it is a sign that the life of the person con- 
cerned is to end with the Dasa. In the case of people 
endowed with short, long and medium lives, the de- 
mise will happen at the close of the Dasa of the 3rd, 
the 7th and the 5th stars respectively counted from 
the natal stars they being called 

II II 

SJoka 2, 9, 20, 18, 20 and 50 are the figures 

indicating the number of years prescribed respectively 
for the Moon, Mars, Mercury, Venus, Jupiter, the Sun 
and Saturn in the ^frRr^?5TT (Naisargikadasa) system. 
The Dasas play their part in the order given here ac- 
cording to the natural strength of the planets concern- 
ed. The Yavanas are of opinion that the Lagna Dasa 
which is benefic comes after these Dasas. But others 
do not approve of this method. 

II II 

its. 

orfesi ^siTsrrBrwiiftTr^ 



SI. 18-10 




Or 


51 


Sloka 18 , ‚Äî The signs, degrees, minutes, etc., of a 
planet should be converted into minutes, and as many 
multiples of 2400 as may be found necessary should 
be subtracted from the same. The remainder represents 
the Ayushkalas of the planet.. The same' should be divi- 
ded by 200 (3TT?rT BTT5rT= 10 dr 0, ^ = 0, 

2). The quotient gives the number of. years, months 
and days in the (Amsayurdaya) contribution 

towards the span of life by a planet according to its 
Degree, etc , according to Satyacharya. If the planet be 
retrograde or in exaltation, this quotient has to be 
trebled. If the planet be in his own Rasi or Navamsa, 
decanate or Vargottama, the Ayurdaya has to be 
doubled ; if in depression, it has to be reduced by 
half. If the planet be eclipsed, then also the reduction 
is half. But this last reduction will not apply to Venus 
and Saturn. 

= 24 (see Monier Williams' Dictionary) ], 
5]5r^f3r?r=2400. There are 24 Tirthankaras or saints 
among the Jains. 

%j'5rTr5rr^ ?rTT i 

BtsTT ^5TT 

Sloka /9.‚Äî When malefic planets occupy the 6 Bha- 
vas counted backward from the 12th, the whole, a half, 
a third, a fourth, a fifth and a sixth respectively of 
their Ayurdaya is lost. When benefic planets occupy 
such positions, the loss is half of that incurred in the 
case of malefic ones. When several planets are in a 
Bhava, only the strongest of them causes a reduction 
in the Ayurdaya. All planets except Mars lose a third 
of their Ayurdaya . when in inimical houses. The 
nuinber of years contributed bv the Lagna according 



052 Adh. XXI I 

to Satyacharya's view corresponds to the number of 
its Navamsas that have risen. Even if the Lagna be 
strong or of medium strength, the same rule holds. 

g iR^ii 

Sloka .20 ---The rule of Satyacharya is preferable 
(to that laid down by Maya or Jeevasarman). But some 
make the process inconsistent and unwarrantable by 
a series of multiplications. The dictum of the Acharyas 
(Satya and others) is the following r - 

(1) When several multiplications crop up, only 
one and that the highest, is to be gone through. 

Koi; vvlieii ii pliinoi is in iis own and in if)?^ 

evaluation arid in i'ot)'ogi‚Äò:ide niotion, tlio Ayiii'da,y;i is not to 1)0 
(lonf>lei.l fast Jind Okmi tlie rosnll. tr'oliind and tlio Kcoond re;^ult 
fui-ther tvtd)led. .Acmrdinif to tin.- r‚Äôuio, the .\yn]‚Äôd:i\'!i slioniil lie 
1 r‚Äôehled onr-e for* aJl. 

(2) Again, when there are several reductions appli^ 
cable only one, and that, the greatest should be made. 

hnr inf^Lnru'O, :i planet nuiy ho in an ininiinal sii^n ;inil may ho 
('(dipwod hy iJio Sun. J t is onouiflr if tiro I‚Äôodiud inu hy half, i (\, 
Astan.yata i‚Äò(v]nction, Iro in:ide. 

‚Äî This Sloka is from Brihat Jalaka 

II 3T!¬ªT II 

51?: 5T% PJr?T 

Sloka 21 r The aggregate number of (Pin- 

dayurdaya) years assigned to the several planets from 



51. 2g-24 


3:Tr^5ftSV7rT?i: 


253 


the Sun onwards (in their highest exaltation point) are 
respectively 19, 25, 15, 12, 15, 21 and 20. All the re- 
ductions should be gone through as before. When a 
malefic planet is present in the Lagna, take only the 
minutes, seconds, etc., indicating the Lagna leaving 
out the signs. Multiply the total Ayus by this and 
divide by 360. The whole Ayurdaya should be reduc- 
ed by this result. If the Lagna be aspected by abene~ 
fic, the period to be subtracted will be only half of the 
above result, So say those well-versed in the Ayurdaya 
system. 

JTi^rftfi-TT IR^II 

SJoka - In the (Pindayurdaya) system, 

when the Amsa (Lagna Navamsa) is strong, the Lagna 
Ayus for Laana Dasa) corresponds to the Lagna Navam- 
sa. When the Lagna (Rasi) is strong, the number of 
years for Lagna Ayus corresponds to the number signi- 
fied by the Rasi, etc , counted from Mesha, and not the 
Lagna Navamsa. 

SJoka 2S. ‚Äî The years assigned to the several planets 
in Sloka 21 r^f/pro are to be adopted in full when they 
are in exaltation. When a planet is in its depression 
point, the period assigned to it is reduced by half ; 
when it occupies an intermediate position, the reduc- 
tion is to be proportionate, say the wise. 

n:rr?r iRyii 

SJoka 24 . ‚Äî The (Pindayurdaya) system is 

advocated as the best by Manittha, Cbanakya, Maya 



Adh. XXII 


254 

and others. But Satyacharya has pronounced this 
method to be faulty and Varahamihira also has made 
similar pronouncement. 

Krir^rT I 

SIo^-'!23. ‚Äî Jeevasarmjti lays down in accordance 
with his own doctrine that the maximum period of life 
gi ven by each pianet from lue Sun onwards is ^th of 
the maximum aggregate perivjd (120 years and 5 days). 
In this Ayurdaya also all the reductions are enjoined. 
The Lagna Ayus also should be calculated in the same 
way as in the other systems. 

?TT^tsrTT!af 

* 'TOT 5r5lfferTm¬´r i 

5n:^: 5T<T % 

Sloka 26‚Äî The full period of life in the case of men 
has been declared as 120 years (12X10) by some. 
Others there are who have stated that the full life- 
period will be the time taken by Saturn to make 3 
complete revolutions (in his orbit). There is a third 
school who say that the full life- period of a man is the 
time taken by the Moon for making 1000 revolutions. 
But we are of opinion that the full period of man s life 
in this Kaliyuga is only 100 years as stated in the 
Vedas. 

5rjTlf^r^t5'3'^T;TIJrf^^'!rr5'?I5T: 

5Tr>-?r%r- irTwri^iir 'srfg i 



SI. 27-28 




255 


Sloka 27, ‚ÄîOi the Lagna, the Sun and the Moon, 
whichever is strongest will have its Dasa first. Then 
will come the Dasa of the planets in its Kendra and 
other positions. When several occupy together any 
one of these positions the precedence will be given to 
the planet which predominates in strength. When they 
happen to be of equal strength, that which gives a 
longer period, in years, of aTT5r3[‚Äòi?T (Ayurdaya) will have 
its turn first. When there is equality even in regard to 
the number of years the (Ayurdaya) of the 

planets, that which rises first after being eclipsed by 
the Sun gets its Dasa prior to its fellows. 

If should luAvtn'ri- i;lja,iico to Ii;i,vo si.icnjjUi, 

0 (i\ui] (Aynr(la\;b) and ciiual I'isin;; thoir conjuiicLiou 

with the hiiuj, thou ilij-il piatud, wiiicn :!‚ñÝ!)( Ci‚Äôior in idm no rad. 
ordor of procedciico auio])^^ l.iic s[;;f i r.cdf.i h s wmiid. rulo fdin i )asai in 
'jiiostioii ; aiul this general oidni‚Äô td‚Äò ^tionainiino is nsii;)dfy <;ikon to 
bo (l)l;ho liHijiiii, (2) the Sun, (d; tdm diotju, ( J . Alaa's, (o) Aloianiry 
fb) Jupitoj‚Äô, (7) Venus and (8) b'ld.nAn 

And the strength of any planet for this purpose is 
obtained by multiplying it the position-by the distance 
of the planet from its neare.st Bhava-sandhi and divid- 
ing the product by the dlshince between the 
(Bhavamsa) and one of its Sandhis. 


Sloka 2d.-'-a45Tr3'^T^r (Amsayurdaya) is to be calcu- 
lated upon the predominance in strength of the Lagna ; 

(Pindayurdaya) upon the Sun's superiority in 
strength and (Naisargikayurdaya) when the 

Moon's power is strongest. We shall now state what 
should be done when ihe the three (Lacna, the Sun 
and the Moon) are of equal strength. 



1^36 Adh. XXI 


sr^rinTtf^ir ?Tf M5Eg Brnr# ctt f^rr ar?K5':?Ti i 

^ ?r55t5TT: ii^'^.ii 

Sloka 29. Add the three Ayurdayas and divide the 
sum by 3. The quotient will be the Ayurdaya requir- 
ed. If only two of thejn are strong, add the two 
Ayurdayas and talce half the result. When the three 
planets are all weak, adopt the method advocated by 
Jeevasarman for finding out the Ayurdaya. 

3FT55:g‚Äò5fi;^5rT mi I 

Sloka 30 .‚Äî Kalachakra Dasa system has to be resort- 
ed to only when the lord of the Navamsa occupied by 
the Moon is strong. The Dasa calculation as per 
Nakshatra method is always considered as the best. 

?TJTr: JT^sr^Ktirr Tigr ^ W5Tt 

T? =^r ¬´Tr;Tq[^ lli'.ll 

Sloka 21, ‚Äî The full period of life in the case of men 
and elephants is given as 120 years and 5 days, while 
in that of horses it is 32 years. It is 25 in the case of 

asses and camels and 24 for bulls and buffaloes. 
Twelve years are allotted for dogs and 16 for sheep and 

the like. 

^ trsq‚ÄôWtSTJT^'TT %3r%5rVT^T: I 

^cTmj^Tr^'sfrw: iir-'.ii 

?% JT^j¬´5?:r5n:T%cTT2rr 

5:¬ªf^5Tt-s^?Tr?r; 

Sloka 32 . ‚Äî This 3TTf*r (Ayus)'span of life has been 





SI. 1-2 




declared by wise men with respect to only those who 
are engaged in the practice of virtuous actions, who 
keep their senses under control, who eat wholesome 
diet, who are devoted to the Brahmins and the Gods 
and who preserve the land-marks of character and 
conduct peculiar to their high families. 

Tlui^ L4i(ls tilt; Atiliyayci on KaliiL'liakni t;tc. in 

ilio work Piiaiatloo])ilva coniposutl l>y ^lantrcswara. 

II II 

II I 

la.ii 

ADHYAYA XXllI. 

Pint . S‚Äô /ot-a J.' -In order to ascertain the good and bad 
effects caused by the several planets in their transits 
through the Rasis of the zodiac, the Ashtakavarga haS 
been very highly spoken of by the great sages, and 1 
now set forth the mode of accomplishing it. 

A^Oc'e. -'J'hc inwuiin!,' of i¬´ literally I ho ;:rnu|i ol H 

Lhitigs. In other woixis, it. is tlio eoinlhnatioii ol I, Ins and had 

positions of a jilanct with respect to the 7 planets and l,lu; l.aiiiiii 
(8 things). 8o it is thij conihination oC tlio honclic and ni.ilolio 
(lots in a plaiiot's chart with roforcnco to the positions ol tli¬´ b 
planets. 

JTf ^'41% Hi5r?rfTITf;=^TW I 

srtw iRii 

Sloka 2 . ‚Äî Draw well on the ground the Rasi Chakra 
and post in the same in their proper places the several 
planets as they stood at the time of birth. Regulate the 
distribution of the beads in the manner directed (in the 

3.0 



258 Adh, XXII 


following Slokas), in the several Basis, the reckoning in 
each case being made from the sign occupied by the 
particular planet for getting the Ashtakavarga. 

11^11 

sioka 3 ‚Äî With reference to his Ashtakavarga, the 
Sun is declared exceedingly auspicious in the 1st, the 
2nd, the 4th, the 7th, the 8th, the 9lh, the 10th and 
11th places from himself. Mars and Saturn ; in the 5th, 
the 6th, the 9th and 11th places from Jupiter ; in the 
6th, the 7th and thel2th places from Venus; in the 3id, 
the 5th, the 6th, the 9th, the 10th, the 11th and the 12th 
from Mercury; in the 3rd, the 6th, the 10th and the 
11th places from the Moon ; and lastly, in the 3rd, the 
4th, the 6th, the 10th, the 11th and the 12th places 
from the Lagna. 

'5r?jr: iiyii 

Shka <f.~The Moon is auspicious in the 3rd, 6th, 
7th, 8th, 10th and 11th places from the Sun ; in the 1st, 
3rd, 6th, 7th, 10th and 11th places from herself ; in the 
2nd, 3rd, 5th, 6th, 9th, 10th and 11th places from 
Mars ; in the 1st, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 7th, 8th, 10th and 11th 
places from Mercury; in the 1st, 2nd, 4th, 7th, 8th, 
10th and 11th places from Jupiter*; in the 3rd, 4th, 
5th, 7th, 9th, 10th and 11th places from Venus; in the 

* Afconliug tu Varuhainihira, 1st, 4th, 7th, 8th, 10th, 11th iiiid 12th 
places fruiii Jupiter. 



SI. -'J-e 




2no 


3rd, 5th, 6th and 11th places from Saturn ; and lastly, 
in the 3rd, 6th, 10th and 11th places from the Lagna. 

rT^r^Tft 

^!TTf^rr5n^?T ll'^.ll 

Sloka 5."-Mars is auspicious in the 3rd, 5th 6th, 
10th and 11th places from the Sun ; in the 3rd, 6th and 
11th places from the Moon; in the 1st, 2nd, 4th, 7th, 
8th, 10th and 11th places from himself ; in the 3rd, 5th, 
6th and 11th places from Mercury; in the 6th, 10th, 
11th and 12th places from Jupiter; in the 6th, 8th, 
11th and 12th places from Venus ; in the 1st, 4th, 7th^ 
8th, 9th, 10th and 11th places from Saturn ; and lastly, 
in the 1st, 3rd, 6th, 10th and 11th places from the 
Lagna. 

^ vTi¬ªT=iTrj;^ i 

5??^ ¬ªT5iTiT^T?<^% ¬ªT?:^rrt cT^TTr^'af* 

Jllf Rf 311^^ 11^11 

Sloka 6 . ‚Äî Mercury is auspicious in the 1st, 3r/i, 5th, 
6th, 9th, 10th, 11th and 12th places from himself; in 
the 5th, 6th, 9th, 11th and 12th places from the Sun; 
in the 6th, 8th, 11th and 12th, places from Jupiter ; in 
the 1st, 2nd, 4th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th and 11th places 
from Saturn and Mars ; in the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 
8th, 9th and 11th places from Venus ; in the 1st, 2nd, 
4th, 6th, 8th, 10th and 11th places from the Lagna; and 
lastly, in the 2nd, 4th, 6th, 8th, 10th and 11th places 
froni the Moon. 



260 




Adh. XXIII 


\3 

wtJTTf??E f:?:5r: %^T¬´T?n^ 1 

55ft ¬ªT¬ªfHi?TJr^ ?n'%: 

?fm?rft ]^rrir^RBr%% cT^: ll^ll 

Sinka 7^. ‚ÄîJupiter is benefic in the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 
7th, 8th, 9th, 10th and 11th places from the Sun ; in 
the 2nd, flth, 7th, 9th and 11th places from the Moon ; 
in the 1st, 2nd, 4th, 7th, 8th, 10th and 11th places from 
Mars; in the 1st, 2nd 4th, vSth, 6th 9th, 10th and 11th 
places from Mercury; in the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 7th, 
Rth, 10th and I Ith places from himself; in the 3rd, 5th, 
6th and l2th places from Saturn ^ in the 2nd, 5th, 6th, 
9th, lOth and 1 1th places from Venus ; and lastly, in the 
1st, 2nd, 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, 9th, iOthandllth places 
from the Lagna. 

ITTrqf rfjft: 

Sloka R. ‚Äî Venus is auspicious in the 8th, 11th and 
12th places from the Sun; in the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 
5th, 8th, 9th, 11th and 12th places from the Moon; in 
the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 8th, 9th and 11th places 
from the Lagna ; in the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 8th, 9th, 
10th and 1 1th places from himself ; in the 3rd, 5th, 6th, 
9th, 1 1th and 12th places from Mars ‚Äô ; in the 3rd, 4th, 
5th, 8th, 9th, 10th and 11th places from Saturn ; in the 
3rd, 5th, 6th, 9th and 11th places from Mercury; and 
lastly, in the 5th, 8th, 9th, 10th and 11th places from 
Jupiter. 


AtuonVuifji: to Tiirasara, tli(‚Äò 4 th, 6 th, -hb, 11 th and 12 th' places 
from Mars, 



SI. 9-10 


w?TVrir?ftsv?n?r: 


261 


^^T^JcTTSTT^ ^iJr^ ^^rTinr: IIMI 

¬´ 

Sloka 9 .‚Äî Saturn is benefic in the 1st, 2nd, 4th, 7th, 
8th, 10th and 11th places from the Sun ; in the 3rd, 6th 
and 1 1th places from the Moon; in the 3rd, 5th, 6th 
and nth places from himself; in the 3rd, 5th, 6th, 
10th, 11th and l2th places from Mars ; in the 5th, 6th, 
11th and l2th places from Jupiter; in the 6th, 8th, 9th, 
10th 11th and 12th places from Mercury; in the 1st, 
3rd, 4th, 6th, 10th and 11th places from the Lagna; 
and lastly, in the 6th, 11th and 12th places from 
Venus. 

srf^JTJrf ?T5r > 
llloP 

Sloka 10, ‚Äî Thus have been described the benefic 
positions ; the rest are to be understood as malefic. 
The planets produce (to all beings) the effects 
even of these two preponderate in the Ashtakavarga 
calculations made from the Rasi they occupy at the 
time of birth. Good or bad in a remarkable measure 
in the above positions. That is a planet produces vary 
good results when it passes through a Rasi that con- 
tains many benefic dots in its own. Ashtakavarga 
chart. In their own, exaltation, friendly or Upachaya 
places, the planets invariably advance the benefic 
effect revealed by Ashtakavarga. In their depression, 
inimical or Apachaya houses, they generally fail to 
sustain whatever good effect may appear from tho 
Ashtakavarga procesSt 



262 




Adh. XXllI 


Note:‚Äî Good liouses with malefic dots, and bad houses with 
benefic dots will neutralise the eilects. In other cases the results 
will be different. 

For further information on the subject and about the Aslita- 
kavarga plate, please see p. ]). 053-063 of my edition of Jataka- 
parijata. 

¬ªftr^¬•r‚ÄôTT^JTr6'sftrT‚Äú=Ti^flrt laiii 

Sloka 7 7. ‚Äî When all the Ashtakavargas have been 
prepared, if it be found that a Rasi is void of any benefic 
dot in a planet's Ashtakavarga, it indicates that the 
native will lose his life when the particular planet in 
his orbit transits that Rasi. If there should be one, 
two, three, four, five, six, seven or eight benefic dots, 
the effects will be (1) destruction or loss (2) expendi- 
ture (3) fear (4) fear (5) accomplishment of the desired 
object (6) acquisition of a damsel (7) gain of wealth 
or property and (8) gaining a Kingdom or high Govern- 
ment position respectively. 

Sloka 72.‚Äî Treating the several Rasis occupied by 
the planets at the time of birth as their respective start- 
ing points (Lagnas), benefic dots should be computed 
in 8 ways due to the countings by houses from each of 
the seven planets and the Lagna, and effects predicted 
for the several Bhavas counted from that planet 
through the dots contained in them. 

Sloka 23.‚Äî Note the Rasi and Navamsa occupied 
by a planet at birth, When the planet in its cpurse 



SI. ii-io 




263 


traverses through so much of the distance in that 
house, it produces the effects due to that Bhava^good 
or bad as the case may be. 

m iilyii 

Sloka 14. ‚Äî When the Ashtakavarga (of any planet) 
has been computed, note the house that contains the 
highest number of benefic dots and what Bhava it 
represents, reckoning the house occupied by the 
Karaka planet as the Lagna or the first house. When a 
planet ‚Äî whether benefic or malefic- -transits that 
house, it advances that Bhava, that is, will produce 
good effects. If otherwise, that is, when the planet 
transits a house containing a few or no 'benefic dots, 
the reverse will be the case. 

¬•rr% ?T5[TfftgTiTTf majT?:?T5Ti?:3rff!=T i 

3^tirr??T iiI'aii 

Sloka i5.‚Äî When there are many planets simulta- 
neously passing in their course of transit through a 
a certain Bhava containing also a good number of 
benefic dots in the Ashtakavarga of a planet, they 
promote the interests of the Bhava in an intense man- 
ner, i.e., produce good results for the Bhava represent-' 
ed by it, the counting being reckoned from the house 
occupied by the Karaka planet whose Ashtakavarga is 
under consideration. 

srf^STzsrir i 

Sloka io.‚Äî When a benefic dot exists in a Bhava in 
an Ashtakavarga, in order to definitely fix the exact 
time of its (benefic dot's) fruition, a Rasi is divided 
into 8 equal divisions and the divisions are allotted to 



264 


Adh. XXI II 


the planets and the Lagna according to their orbits and 
the effect will occur in the transit over the particular 
division owned by the planet that put forth the benefic 
dot. 

II ti 

m 

^ ?r5r ?5T g- BrWr: i 

=5risc5r*T3i' iil^ii 

Sloka 17 . ‚Äî If you draw up a diagram consisting of 
nine parallel lines at equal intervals from east to west 
crossed by 13 parallel lines from north to south with 
the same intermediate space as before, there will arise 
a table containing 96 squares in 8 rows comprising the 
results of each of the several Ashtakavargas. 

For notes on tfiis as well as tlic next Kloka, sco Jatakajiaiijata 
IK 083. 

sK^or ^3= lll<ill 

Sloka 18. ‚Äî The Lagna, the Moon, Mercury, Venus, 
the Sun, Mars, Jupiter and Saturn are the lords of the 
divisions indicated in the eight rows extending from 
south to north of each sign, and every one of them 
yields the effect of the benefic dot appearing against 
it in any of the 12 houses when the planet whose 
Ashtakavarga is under consideration transits in the 
house the particular division of the planet yielding the 
benefic dot. 

g qr^riq- 1 

HIM I 

Sloka 19. ‚Äî Divide the Rasi into 8 equal divisions. 
The first division belongs to Saturn; the 2nd to Jupiter, 

that is, any benotic dot; pufc forth by Jupiter will come to 
fruition duriuiS thu transit over the 2nd division of tiio Basi, 



SI. 20-2‚Äò2 265 


and so on according to their orbits. During a planet's 
transit over the last division, any benefic dot put forth 
by the Lagna attains its fruition. 

rnrf i 

Sloka 20. ‚Äî When the Sarvashtakavarga containing 
the results of the*Ashtakavargas of all the planets is 
computed by setting forth in each Rasi the sum-total of 
all the figures for that Rasi in the seven Ashtakavargas, 
if it be found that any Rasi contains figures exceeding 
28, it must be understood that planets in their transit 
over that Rasi produce good or auspicious effects. Any 
number falling short of that particular figure produces 
danger, or sorrow proportionately varying in intensity. 

i 

trtTiq; 

SJoka 21 . ‚Äî Find the number of benefic dots contain- 
ed in the sevaral auspicious houses reckoned from the 
Moon. Note also what planets occupy benefic houses 
counted from the Moon in the horoscope of the native 
and find the number of benefic dots in each of these 
houses. If the sum-total in either of these above two 
cases exceed 28, the effect must be pronounced as 
good ; if below that figure, it will be bad. 

^3FJT5Tir?n5T^T¬´I?T^TOrT I 

Sloka 22 . ‚Äî The Ashtakavarga figures are to be com- 
puted as per rules stated (in this chapter) with respect 



2tit; Adh. XXIV 

to the positions of the planets (existing) at the birth-time 
of any person. In that particular Rasi, month, Bhava, etc. 
signified by the sign containing tho greatest number 
of benefic dots, one ought to get done anything 
auspicious when the planets concerned transit those 
houses. 

Sloka I?:.). -‚ÄúEven a malefic will rnornote or 'advance 
the Bhava in which he is, if he should occupy his own 
house, while, if posited in his depression or inimical 
house, ho will only cause its dc'cline or ruin 

UcT 'iT‚Äôsq.'qTTi 

frm 

/.?/o/:o d ‚ÄúA bonelic planet even if he be in his 
exaltation house will injure the Bhava he occupies if he 
should happen to own a Dusstthana ''6th, t3th or l2th). 
A malefic in exaltation will do good to the Bhava he 
occupies if he happens to own good houses. 

Thus ends the 23rd Adhyaya on "Ashtakavarga"' 
in the work Phaladeepika composed by Mantreswara. 

II II 

II II 

II ^.11 

Sloka 7.‚Äî The 9th house reckoned from that occu- 
pied by the Sun is termed the father's. Multiply the 



51 . 2-6 


267 




figure indicating benefic dots in that house by the 
figure denoting the (Sodhyapinda). 

i 

^nE?T^T ?r ipji 

Sloka ‚Äî The figure thus arrived at should be divi- 
ded by 27. When Saturn transits through the asterism 
counted from Aswini indicated by this remainder, 
some thing untoward to the father will without doubt 
come to pass. 

^iftw^TTnrt iibii 

Sloka Or, when Saturn traverses through an 
asterism which is trine to the aforesaid asterism, the 
demise of the father or one similarly situated will 
happen. The sum total of the figures remaining after 
the 2 reductions is known as (Sodhyapinda). 

^rr iiyii 

Sloka 4 . ‚Äî The demise of the father or of one simi- 
larly placed may occur during the Dasa of the planet 
owning the Navamsa occupied by the lord of the 4th 
house from the Lagna Or, the same eveat may also 
happen during the Dasa of the planet owning the 4th 
house. 

rrf?5r^nrir^ i 

nr^T fTfroTT Hf‚Äôrr n^.ii 


‚ñÝ'‚ñÝAfter th(> Trikona and ICkadhipatya r('<]\i¬´‚Äòtions have hf^en made in any 
Ashtakavnrgii, the sum -total of all the rfnuaininj.r figures isi railed the 
(Sodhyapinda) in that Ashtakavarga. (/'e/r Sloka //// ru). 



2G8 


Adh. XXIV 


Slcka 5‚Äî6. Multiply the (Sodhyapinda) 

figure of the Sun's Ashtakavarga by the number of 
benefic dots in the 8th house from the Sum, and divide 
the product by 12. When the Sun comes to the Rasi 
(counted from Mesha) indicated by the remaider, or its 
triangular sign, the demise of the father should be 
expected. A wise man should thus fix up with the help 
of all the other planets the demise in other cases. 

nirjfrffr: gr insii 

Sloka 7.‚Äî The figure indirating the (Sodh- 

yapinda) in! the Moon's Ashtakavarga should be 
multiplied by the number representing the benefic 
dots in the 4th house counted from that occupied by 
the Moon. The product should be then divided by 27. 
When Saturn transits the asterism (counted from 
Aswini) indicated by the remainder or its triangular 
star, the demise of the mother may be expected. 

WTgf^TT fgg: IICIl 

Sloka 8 . ‚Äî Find out the Navamsas occupied by the 
lords of the 4th and the 8th houses reckoned from the 
Moon. When the Sun transists through a position 
triangular to these, the loss of the mother should be 
predicted. The father's demise should be similarly 
guessed by reckoning from the Lagna or the Sun 
instead of from the Moon. 

stt g- ii^ii 

Sloka 9.- In the Ashtakavarga of Mars, the number 
pf brothers may be guessed by the number of benefio 



269 


SI. 10-13 

dots in the 3rd house from Mars. Similarly, the num- 
ber of relations or maternal uncles can be guessed from 
the number of benefic dots in the 4th house from Mer- 
cury in the Ashtakavarga of Mercury. 

?n^?TT i 

^TT^^^TTrinrT: ii^.on 

Sloka 10 . ‚Äî Find how many planets have contributed 
benefic dots in the 5th house from Jupiter in Jupiter's 
Ashtakavarga. From that number take away as many 
benefic dots of planets as are occupying inimical or 
depression houses. The remainder will represent the 
number of children one may have. 

S5T:Tf![T¬´Tr^ ^‚ÄôTT^^^TTrJTSTT: HUH 

Sloka II . ‚Äî In the Ashtakavarga of Jupiter, add up 
all the benefic dots remaining after the two reduc- 
tions have been made, and from this sum take away 
the number of dots in the malefic Rasis. What remains 
will^ represent the number of children the native will 
have. 

^nrrsJ^rrRr: huh 

Sloka 12 . ‚Äî In the Ashtakavarga of Venus, find out 
the Rasi that has the largest number of benefic idots. 
In the direction of quarter signified by that Rasi, If the 
wife should in that Rasi or Lagna, be born, increase of 
progency through her is assured. If the number of dots 
be low (small), wealth and progeny through her will 
be poor. 

cTT HUH 



270 Adh. XXIV 


Shya I3r-ln Saturn's Ashtakavarga, multiply the 
(Sodhyapinda) figure by the number indicat- 
ing the benefic dots in the 8th house from the Lagna 
and divide the product by 27. When Jupiter or Saturn 
in his transit passes through the star (counted from 
Aswini) signified By the remainder, the demise of the 
native may be expected. 

‚Äô7r^fe^?rF7T'7r?7rTTr 7Tf?Tr*sn^ fir fT^Tr^m;nrr iifyii 

Sloka hi . ‚Äî (In Saturn's Ashtakavarga) add up the 
figures indicating benefic dots in the several houses 
from the Lagna to that occupied by Saturn both inclu- 
sive. Similarly add up the figures in the houses 
reckoned from Saturn to the Lagna both inclusive. 
In the years represented by these two figures should 
danger or destruction be expected. 

Sloka 15. ‚Äî The figure indicating the (Sodh- 

yapinda) (in the Ashtakavarga of Saturn) should be 
multiplied by the number signifying the benefic 
dots in the 8th house from the Lagna and the product 
divided by 27. The quotient will represent the total 
Ayus in years of the native. The time of demise may 
also be defined as before {vide sloka 13, supra). 

II fir^^or^ftvTJTT II 

g Brg i 

Sloka 16. ‚Äî Of the 3 signs in a Trikona group, find 
which sign contains the least number of benefic dots. 
The figures in the other two signs should be reduced 



‚Äò271 


SI- 17-‚Äò20 

to that extent. If there be no dots in any sign, no such 
reduction need be made in the other two signs of the 
triangular group. 

^IT?% \\\M 

L'hka 17.- -li there be no dots in two of the signs of 
a group, remove the figure in the third. When all the 
three signs of a group have the same number of dots, 
remove all. 

II II 

II fell 

!>!oka 1<7. ‚Äî After performing the Trikona reduction, 
the Ekadhipatya reduction should be proceeded with. 
When both the houses owned by a planet contain 
benefic dots, then only this reduction should be made 
by a wise man. 

T¬•TT^ i 

‚Ä¢B 

Siokij 79." Of the two signs having a common lord, 
if one alone be occupied and contain a less number of 
benefic dots than the number in the other, the figure 
in the latter is to be made equal to the former. 

^5r^!^?:gif5qrrir 

Sloka 20.‚Äî If one of the two Rasis having a com- 
mon lord be occupied and contain more benefic dots 
than the other, remove the figure in the latter. If the 
two Rasis one of which is occupied, have the same 
number of benefic dots, remove the figure in the un^ 
occupied Rasi. 



272 




Adh. XXIV 


^JTr% i 

TVnit^f^^ ^ IRIII 

Sloka 22.‚Äî If both the Basis (having a common lord) 
be unoccupied and have the same number of 
benefic dots, remove both. If the two Basis having a 
common lord be both occupied by planets, no reduc- 
tion need be made. 

JT I 

cT^5?T 

Sloka 22.‚Äî If one of the two Rasis (whether occu- 
pied or unoccupied) have no benefic dots, then also 
there is no reduction. If both the Rasis be unoccupied 
and have an unequal number of benefic dots, the 
greater figure is to be replaced by the less. 

^v:?TT5r%^ I 

Sloka 23. ‚Äî The net figures after the two reductions 
in the several signs are to be multiplied each into its 
Rasi factors (Rasimana). The net figures 

in the Rasis that are associated with the Sun and other 
planets are to be multiplied by the appropriate plane- 
tary factors (or jr^TTR-Grahamana) . 

II ii 

^ ir¬´ii 

Trrf^^ori: srlrirT: ^siijrcnnrT: iRmi 

Slokas 24-25 . ‚Äî In the case of the signs Vrishabha 
and Simha, the multiplier is 10, while it is 8 for Mithu- 
and Vrischika, 7 for Tula and Mesha, and 5 for Kanya 
and Makara. The multipliers for Karkataka, Dhanus, 



2^3 


SI- 2G-29 


Kumbha and Meena are 4, 9, 11, and 12 respectively. 
These are called Rasi multipliers. The Giaha'iactois 
are quite distinct {vide, next Sloka). 

srrJTi^IntcTT: I 

%T0rf ^:i%5nTi^irfnor: 

Sloka 26 . ‚Äî In the case of Jupiter, Mars, Venus and 
Mercury 10, 8, 7 and 5 are respectively the multipliers 
while in the case of each of the remaining planets, the 
multiplier is Mercury's figures, viz, 5. The multiplica- 
tion by the Graha factors should be effected separately, 
and should be treated as distinct from the Rasi multi- 
plication. 

vrqf^cT ir<^ii 

uloka 27 .- 'After thus multiplying and then adding 
the two products, the total should be again multiplied 
by 7 and divided by 27. The quotient obtained will be 
the Ayus in years contributed by that planet. 

" 5ft^?rr55T: Hue‚Äôll 

Sloka 28 . ‚Äî Multiply the remainder by 12 and divide 
by 27 to get the months, Multiply the remainder by 
30 and divide by 27 to get the days and so on to get 
the Ghatikas etc. Twentyseven years constitute a 
Mandala. Some reductions have to be made further. 

^ iiHMi 

Shka 29 ‚Äî U a planet be in conjunction with another 
planet, reduce the period contributed by the planet by 
half. If the planet be in depression or combustion, in 
that case also should a reduction of the period by half 
be made. 



274 


¬´?:^#fcrsRT¬´rT Adh. XXIV 

t 

BrvTT¬ªft?f rfsiTT i 

vfw ¬ªTrcrd5T^riri; ii?'>ii 

Sloka ^30.‚Äî li a planet be posited in an inimical 
house, a reduction by a third should be eifected. If a 
planet occupy any house in the visible half of the 
horizon, a similar reduction should be made. For a 
planet vanquished in planetary v/ar or occupying a 
position within the (Pata) range ol the Sun and the 
Moon, a reduction by a third should l:)e made. 
r% f jrm i 

Tsirar^ ns' ii 

Shka JL ‚Äî When several reductions crop up in the 
case of a single planet, only one, and that the greatest, 
should be made. All the figures should then be 
totalled up and multiplied by 324, 

WTcTW?T^v:i JT ! 

rTJ?i ^JtTi 

Slokci 33, ‚Äî The product should be divided by 365, 
The quotient will be the correct rectified Ayus contri- 
buted severally by the planets, and may be shown in 
years, months, days, etc., and will be their Dasa 
periods. 

Sloka 33. ‚Äî Thus should the Dasa periods of each of 
the several planets be computed seperately. The 
method of computing the Dasa periods by the Ashtaka- 
varga process is the best of all. 

^:rT|T garn:: w i 

¬ªTtirt <fT!R<ji^:=fR^i g lUyil 

^sf: ¬ªTi: ¬´n^‚Äôc¬ªfT^¬ªTT=g5rT: i 



SI. 34-38 




27.') 


Sloka 3^1. ‚Äî 33, In the Sarvashtakavarga the figures 
indicating the number of benefic dots in the 12 houses 
reckoned from 


(1) the Sun are 3, 3, 3, 3, 2, 3, 4, 5, 3, 5, 1 , 2 ^43 


(2) the Moon 

(3) Mars 

(4) Mercury 

(5) Jupiter 

(6) Venus 

(7) Saturn 

(8) Lagna 


,, 2, 3. 5, 2^ 2, 5, 2, 2, 2. 3, 7 , 1 = 36 
,, 4, 5, 3, 5, 2, 3, 4, A, A, 6, 7, 2-49 
3 , 1, 5, 2, 6, 6, 1, 2, 5, 5, 7, 3=46 
2, 2, 1, 2, 3, 4, 2, 4, 2, 4, 7 , 3 = 36 
2, 3, 3 , 3 , 4, 4, 2, 3, A, 3, 6, 3 - 40 
3^ 2, A, 4, A, 3, 3, A, A, A, 6, 1 = 42 
5, 3, 5, 5, 2, 6, 1, 2, 2, 6, 7, 1, -45 


Total Sarvashtakavarga figure ... 337 

aifiqrsTT 5r^fit5rfJT ll^‚Äô-.li 

Sloka 36 .‚Äî The Ashtakavarga system is declared to 
be effective in all undertakings. There is no other way 
to determine the power of the influence arising at the 
time- - whether good or had. 

fi‚Äôsrrf^lrsF'Tr^rT n i 

Sloka 37. ‚Äî Signs containing 30 or more benefic dots 
will always prove benefic. Those containing dots bet- 
ween 25 and 30 will be middling. Houses where the 
figure is lower than 25 will cause sorrow or misery. 

^ ¬´TV¬ªTgrR4?IT5!: 113CI1 

. Sloka 38. ‚Äî He in whose nativity the number of 
benefic dots in the 11th house of the Sarvashtakavarga 
exceeds that of the 10th house and the figure in the 
12th less than that of the 11th, and the figure in the 



Adh. XXIV 


27^ 

Lagna more than that of the 12th, will be happy and 

wealthy. 

^flVTJT 

Sloka 39, ‚Äî Examine the figures in the several houses 
from the Lagna to the 12th inclusive. In whichever 
Bhavas there are more figures, transits over these 
houses will produce good results. Where the figures 
are less, the effect will be untoward. 

SJoka 40. ‚Äî The remarks made above in the previous 
Sloka apply only to houses other than the 6th, 8th and 
12th, During the transits through the best signs (/.e., 
the signs containing greater number of benefic dots, 
barring the Dusthanas), all things auspicious should 
be done. 

55?Trrsr¬ª?% 'TifTTR % i 

‚Äôn?T^n'ir%*T^F?THiir5rc?TTrq=;5rn iiy^ii 

Slokci 41 , ‚Äî Add the figures in the houses reckoned 
from the Lagna to Saturn both inclusive. Multiply the 
sum thus obtained by 7 and divide the product by 27. 

a¬ªTmgi!n^ I 

gr 

Sloka 42. ‚Äî In the year indicated by the quotient, the 
native will suffer calamity or disease. The same 
process should be gone through with respect to the 
houses reckoned from Saturn to the Lagna. Similar 
remarks apply in the case of Mars and Rahu, and the 



277 


SI. 43-1 T^griiFsftSv^Tiqr: 

years indicating similar untoward events, ascertained 
in the same manner. 

gvmf lorf i 

Sloko 43. ‚Äî In the year indicated by the figure obtain- 
ed by (1) adding the figures (of benefic dots) in the 
houses occupied by benefic planets and (2) then 
multiplying the same by 7 and (3) dividing the result 
by 27 should the year indicating anything auspicious 
be intimated. On such an occasion, one will, without 
doubt, obtain issue, wealth, happiness, etc. 

irq-r srlTFrJT‚Äô5?TJT<f75j ffqrc i 
?T7|rri^?:cr: iiyyii 

;tiit 

Sloka 44 . ‚Äî I have thus described here in a brief 
manner the effects due to Ashtakavarga. The same 
have been treated in greater detail in other works by 
intelligent men versed in the science. 

Thus ends the 24th Adhyaya on "the Ashtakavarga 

effects as stated in Hora Sara" in the work 
Phaladeepika composed by Mantreswara. 

II II 

II II 

;TJTT^ JTITfef ‚ÄôqrJT^^5ET5is^rn:^IIf R I 

. iilii 

ADHYAYA XXV. 

Sloka 1. ‚Äî I bow to all the Upagrahas, viz-, (1) 
Mandi, (2) Yamakantaka, (3) Ardhaprahara, (4) Kala 



278 Adli. XXy 


(5) Dhuma, (6) Patha or Vyatipata, (7) Paridhi, (8) 
Indra Dhanus or Kodanda and (9) Ketu or Upaketu. 

g ?n^>arTT?¬ªT^*TmT: iRii 

S/oIca 2 . ‚Äî When the length of day is 30 Ghatikas, 
the position of Mandi on the week days counting from 
Sunday onwards is at the end of 26, 22, 18, 14, 10, 6 
and 2 Ghatikas during day time. These figures have to 
be proportionately increased or diminished according 
as the length of day chosen is greater or less than 30 
ghatikas. In the night time, the lords of the first seven 
Muhurtas are counted, not from the lord of the week 
day chosen, but from that of the 5th ; the position of 
Mandi at night time will be different on the week days, 
vjz,, at the end of Ghatikas 10, 6, 2, 26, 22, 18 and 14 
respectively. 

vrit lEajrt \\\n 

Sloka o.‚ÄîThe position of Yamakantaka during day 
time on week days is at the end of Ghatikas*18, 14, 10, 
6, 2, 26 and 22 ; of Ardhaprahara, at the end of Ghati- 
kas 14, 10, 6, 2, 26, 22 and 18. 

‚Ä¢^TT w 5TTrfrTi?iT iiyii 

Sloka -The position of Kala on the week days 
counting from Sunday onwards is at the end of Ghatikas 
2, 26, 22, 18, 14, 10 and 6 respectively during day 
time. These figures have, as already stated for Mandi, 
to be proportionately altered and their exact positions 
determined as in the case of the Lagna. 



SI. 5-8 




279 


^^rTT^irq; sqT^¬ªTiH^ Rr*T¬ßr^ gr^i?¬´!iiRJT?2^ i 

T%w: TiT%^ ITw:^^T 

!T9iq5i5T3^s^ fr%^^3T^ ?:f^: H'^.li 

SJoka 5 , ‚Äî The position of Dhuma* is found by adding 
4 signs, 13 20' to the figures for the Sun. If you sub- 
tract Dhuma from 12 signs, the result will indicate the 
figures for Vyatipata. This increased by six signs 
becomes Parivesha or Paridhi. When Parivesha again 
is subtracted from 12 signs, we get India chapa. Add 
to this 16 40 ; Kethu is obtained. Kethu increased by 
one sign will give the figures for the Sun. 

ii^ii 

Sloka G.- Jn the Adhyaya on 'Bhavas' the effects of 
these have already been described in a collective 
manner. It is only the effects on the Bhavas of those 
that have been leit out there which are to be descri- 
bed here definitely in detail. 

rTsjffq fsr^'Tts^r i 

Gloka 7.- -Nevertheless, some special effect of 
Gulika and other Upagrahas which have been declared 
by ancient authors are here enumerated by me in a 
condensed form. 

srq-5rfw^?ft RR'sfl‚ÄôsrTf^gsr: i 
fri^TT^T^‚Äô g;j?rf^r%rft tywrft Rf?nft*fT 

^ ^<Tsft JTTfN‚Äô^sV ll<;il 

Sloka S.‚ÄîIf Gulika be posited in the Lagna, the 



280 'K5r^fq¬´Kiq'f Adh. XXV 


person concerned will be a thief, cruel, devoid of 
modesty, ignorant of Vedas and Sastras, will not be 
very stout, will have a deformed eye, will not be very 
intelligent, nor will have many children. He will eat 
much, will be devoid of happiness, will be lustful and 
depraved, will not be long lived, will not be brave, 
will be stupid and of an irritable nature. 

Sloka 9 . ‚Äî If Gulika be in the 2nd Bhava, the person 
born will not talk in a pleasing manner, will be quar- 
relsome, will posses no wealth or corn and will live 
abroad. He will not be true to his word, nor will he 
be able to intelligently take part in any discussion. 

JTf^QcrT lilt'll 

Sloka 10 . ‚Äî When Gulika is in the 3rd. house, the 
person born will be distinguished by aloofness, pride, 
drunkenness and such other qualities, will display an 
abundance of ill-temper and ostentation in the acqui- 
sition of wealth, will be exempt from distress and 
fear and will be without brothers or sisters. 

^5: nun 

Sloka i/.-"~'When Gulika is in the 4th Bhava, the 
person born will be devoid of relations, vehicles, and 
wealth; when Gulika is in the 5th (Bhava), the 
person born will be fickle-minded and badly disposed. 
He will be short-lived. When Gulika is in the 6th 



SI. 12-11 






house, the person born will destroy hosts of foes, will 
dabble in demonology, will posses a very good son 
and will be brave. 

\w<\\ 

Sloka i When Guiika occupies the' 7tii Bliava, 
the person born will be quarrelsome, will be the hus- 
band of many wives, will prove a public enemy, will 
be ungrateful, will know only a little and will be a 
little l^it ancjry, 

^ ^ : WA F? VT'R ^ 1 1 > 1 1 

f'hkn /:?. When Guiika is in the Btli Bhava, llio 
person born will be deformed in his face with weak 
and impaired eyes and v/ill have ‚Äòa dwarlish body (will 
be short in stature). When Guiika is in the 9th Bhava, 
he -will be deserted by his elders and his children. 
When Guiika is in the 10th Bhava, the person will 
abandon all religious duties and observances produc- 
ing good effects, and will not be disposed to give any- 
thing to others. When Guiika is in the lltli Bhava, 
the person born will have happiness, children, intelli- 
gence, power and beauty* 

f5rT5rr‚Ç¨T7:%cft q-^sq-ir; i 

3T?fr m 

* Sloka i i. -When Guiika is in the 12th Bhava, the 
person concerned will not have any liking for sexual 
pleasures, will be poor, and will have a heavy expen- 

oh 



282 




Adh. XXV 


dituie. Ths Janinalagna or Rasi of the native will 
be a sign that is triangular to that occupied by 
Gulika or the Navamsa identical with the one occupi- 
ed by Mandi. 

f?r5rrtrww%r i 

=5r IIVaII 

Sloka 15 , ‚Äî If Gulika be associated with the Sun, the 
person born will kill his father ; if with the Moon, the 
person born will cause distress to his mother ; if with 
Mars, he will lose his brother ; and if with Mercury, he 
will be insane. 

I 

5Tf?r3% 

Sloka 26 , ‚Äî If Gulika be associaied with Jupiter, he 
will be a blasphemous heretic ; if with Venus, the per- 
son born will be in the company of low and base 
women ; and if with Saturn, he will be afflicted with 
leprosy, and will be short-lived. 

iTFft i 
fir^T^r iil'iii 

Sloka 77 . -When Gulika is associated with Rahu, 
the person concerned will suffer from a poisonous 
disease ; if with Ketu, he will suffer from fire. If 
Gulika's time on any weekday be synchronous with 
the (Tyajyakala) on that day, the person born 

then, though, a king will become a beggar. 

3 Rff I 

Sloka 18 . ‚Äî Wherever Gulika is in conjunction, in all 
those, evil has to be predicted. Wherever Yamakanta- 
ka is associated, good has to be expected. 



SI. 19^23 




283 


5T*T!FWJ^J I 

ST?% g- sq-^?rsrTi% ?Ti?^T!T!^r?r?4^55^T{^5rrrT: ^ 5 : iil^3l 

Sloka 79 .‚Äî While Gulika is very powerful in causing 
evil, Yamakantaka is very powerful in causing good. 
All the other Upagrahas possess only half the power 
that Mandi has in causing evil. 

SJoka 20. In producing effects, Gulika is similar to 
Saturn ; Yamakantaka is like Jupiter ; Ardhaprahara is 
like Mercury and Kala is like Rahu. 

sT:^jr^T?:: \ ri \\ 

Sloka 21 ‚Äî Kala's effects will be similar to those of 
Rahu, while Gulika's will bring on death. The effects 
of Yamakantaka will be of an enlivening nature, that 
is, will produce good results Ardhaprahara will cause 
good effects if posited in a house with many benefic 
dots and bad, if in an untoward Bhava. 

^ vnwi STT^fTrTf ^Tf??T q'?:T5T^: IRRII 

Sloka 22 . ‚Äî If ^he Lagna and other houses along 
with their lords be associated with Dhuma and other 
Upagrahas, these houses attain their destruction ; so 
says Parasara. 

Sloka 23 . ‚Äî ^When there is Dhuma, there will always 



2B1 , Adh. XXV 

be trouble from heat and danger from fire and mental 
anguish. When Vyatipata is thus situated, there 
is danger from horned animals and death through 
quadrupeds. 

rfcT^R %5!T'7i^; mn ^r^sTTr^r iP.yti 

Sloka :'-4. When there is Parivesha or Paridhi, the 
native will feel afraid of water, will suffer from watery 
diseases and also have to endure imprisonment. When 
there is Indra Chapa or Kodanda, the native will be hit 
by a stone, will be wounded by weapons or have also 
a fall 

tr% TIvT 

Sloka "When there is Ketu (or Upaketu), the 
native will have a hitj a fall, etc., suffer ruin of his busi- 
ness, and there will be peril from thunder. The above 
effects will occur during the Dasa period of the planet 
owning the house wherein the Upagraha is posited. 

'STw'TT‚Äôt: 'TO^FTlT^oft ^ 

ar?!jp-r<gf^rrT^ f^dT^iT‚ÄôTffT htt: i 

^nrTf^sT^‚Äô^sr?TTTJrrfesrf^TF'er?ft eftT^r- 
r^r^?T %?r5r¬•r'7^Tf%rTt: TTt? \R%\\ 

Sloka v?6'. -If upaketu should occupy any of the 12 
houses from Lagna onwards, the effects will respective* 

ly be : (U short life (2) ugly face (3) courage (4) misery 

(5) loss of children (b) perturbation of the mind through 
enemies (7) decay of vital power (8) ending one's life 
by following bad ways (9) holding views quite anta- 
gonistic to virtuous conduct (10) inclination towards 
W^indering (11) gain and (12)' committing faults. 



285 


‚Ä¢SI. 27- 30 


BTsr^T^ns Tsf %'5ar^i‚Äò- 1 

aprr^r^TT I "M n^-^ii 

Sloka 27.--The five Upagrahas Dhuma etc,, traverse 
the sky without being seen*. If at^ any time they are 
visible any where, they foreshadow something evil to 
the world. 

3r?^ITI‚Äùft ^T'fi'Ti?T: TR%T?g il'-.Cll 

Sh'.n 2n. ‚Äî Some say that Dhuma is of the shape 
of fume clouds, while olher.s opine that it is a star with 
a tail (comet). Vyatipatais like the fall of a meteor , 
and Parivesha is a halo or disk round the Sun or the 
Moon. 

?rt% i 

^TTT%3: 

Sloka 29 -Indra Chapa or Indra Dhanus or Kodanda 
is the famous rainbow that is generally seen in the sky 
during the advent of rain. Ketu is Dhumaketu and 
cafises a lot of mischief to the world. 

‚ÄôT^^¬•rHi;T?rT'4 41 

?r%i4^5^:4TnTr JTirg~*4T 

rRT 'i:?rflrf44:i4t 4‚ÄôT!ririv4i^ 

JTTir 4i^T4t?T: 

Sloka ?0. -If the lord of the house occupied by 
Gulika be possessed of strength and be posited in a 
Kendra, a Trikona, his own, his exaltation or a friendly 
house, the person born will own chariots, elephants 
and horses, will be as beautiful as Cupid ; will be 



Adh. XXVI 

highly respected and widely renowned ; and he will 
rule the entire world. 

Thus ends the 25th Adhyaya on "Upagrahas" in 
the work Phaladeepikd; composed by Mantreswara 

II 

II II 

ii^Ji 

ADHYAYA XXVI. 

Sloka L ‚Äî Of all the Lagnas it is only the Moon's 
Lagna that is most important for ascertaining the 
(Gocharaphala - effect of transits). One ought 
therefore to calculate and predict from the Moon's 
place to predict the effects due to the transits of 
planets through the several signs counted from that of 
the Moon. 

T^Rr^jiTl^¬ªirr^T^T!s:^HmTr8ar??5Pn: 

Sloka 2 .‚Äî During transit, the Sun gives good results 
when he is in the 6th, 3rd and 10th houses (counted 
from the Moon), the Moon in the 3rd, 10th, 6th, 7th and 
1st; Jupiter in the 7th, 9th, 2nd and 5th; Mars and 
Saturn in the 6th and 3rd ; Mercury in the 6th, 2nd, 
4th, 10th and 8th ; all planets in the 11th ; Venus in all 
places other than the lOth, 7th and 6th. Rahu and Ketu 
are similar to the Sun. 

5rT¬´rBr5f:*rer5T3T3 f?TTrf^.cfV i 

5?rrfiBT^% ^ rTfT li^ll 



SI. 3-5 




2b7 


Sloka 3 ‚Äî The Sun is declared auspicious when he 
transits the 11th, 3rd, 10th and 6th, if, at the time, the 
corresponding (Vedha) places, vi/-., the 5th, 9th, 4th 
and 12th respectively are not marred by the transit of 
any of the planets other than Saturn. 

cf- 

I'oi- %qr (Wllui), soc p. 831 of JilUika Paiijata. Should Safcurn 
occupy (in transit) these ])laces, ‚Äòu/.c'., 5th, Dtii, Itli and I2tli, the 
elTect will not ho had, as there is no Vedha hetween the fatlior and 
son iUid as Saturn is the son of the Sun. But if cither ])laiiets 
transit them, they nullify the [.^ood ol'leet that would otherwise he 
caused hy the Sun‚Äôs transit. 

^ ;r%: liyil 

Sloka i. ‚Äî The Moon will produce good effect when 
she transits the 7th, 1st, 6th, 11th, 10th and 3rd if 
planets other than Mercury do not transit the corres- 
ponding Vedha places, /.t? , 2nd, 5th, 12th, 8th, 4th 
and the 9th. 

cf. 511?:^: 

3r?iTm i 

%5r jt ir^ii 

Sloka 5.--Mars in the 3rd, 11th and 6th will give 
good effect if the 12th, 5th and 9th places respectively 
are free from the transit of other planets at the time. 
The same remark applies to Saturn, but in this case the 
effect will not be marred if the Sun should transit at 
the time the corresponding (Vedha) places. 



m .Adh. XXV i 

cf. 

sq-fSiTrftg f:3r: 5r?iT5a^5T i 

3T?r%‚Äô:5r^5r|‚Äò; ^irt; II 

^IT55Tf^RT?3rra¬ªT: ^TvfT ^ I 

i^if*T3rBrfT¬ªT 3Ti^lrv^flriTrm¬ªfTfim*gf^i^f? ^ft: ii>di 

S/oka G. ‚Äî Mercury will be auspicious when he Iran-- 
sits the 2nd, 4th, 6th, 8th, iOth and 11th houses provi- 
ded their corresponding Vedha places, \ 5th, 3rd, 
9th, 1st, 8th and 12th are not occupied by any ol the 
planets other than the Moon. 

-‚ñÝ/‚Ä¢ ?riT>T: 

g-: 3r?irrrKr^ i 

3TfJT?ft 5TV7: II 

R:<?r?:?wJ?r3r5yT5Rr^TT ir^Tir^rftnr^ fg; ii'Sii 

Sloka './. ‚Äî During his transit in the 2nd 11th, 9th, 
Sth and 7th, Jupiter is good il the corresponding 
(Vedha) places, vi^., 12th, Sth, 10th, 4th and 3rd are 
void of planets. 

'7- 5TR?: 

STfJTrr: ^STr^ift^?RE^^^a!im533T5rRrTr: I 
iri^ 5r%?Tf^ jt ll 

fg:s:; 5Tim 

3Ttg?Tfl*T?T¬ªTt5?r?TI^Trt 1 

#v7irTRT?rg^JTqriT¬´fta5HT%ft^?:jr^%=gr^: ii-iii 

Sioka 6‚Äô.'‚Äî Venus will give bad effects during his 
transit through 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, Sth, 8th 9th, 12th 
and 11th, if he is marred by planets in the coriespond* 
ing (Vedha) places, viz,, Sth, 7th, 1st, 10th, 9th, 
Sth, llth, 6th and 3rd respectively. 



289 


SI- 9-10 

ef. 

3T?q¬•rif ‚Ä¢ ' ' 

3r?IT??nqTH?IrTI ^T?ITrt 

f^TT^sr^ f^5rm jt srsairimJTc ^ i 

^r^sTifn yrsrf^^?TgTr^.57T?;^ift?^?rTT 

^3*5 =5r gf ; ii'' >i 

Sloka y.‚Äî When the Sun traverses through the Rasi 
occupied by the Moon, the person concerned will 
suffer fatigue and loss of wealth. He will become irri- 
tated and suffer from diseases. He will undertake a 
wearisome journey. When he transits the 2nd house, 
there will be loss of wealth ; and the person will be un- 
happy He will be duped by others, and will be obsti 
nate. In the 3 rd house, acquisition of. a new position, 
advent of moneys, happiness, freedom from sickness 
and destruction of enemies will be the result. In the 
4th house, the Sun will cause diseases ; and there will 
often arise impediments to the native in the matter of 
his sexual enjoyments. 

I5rrr4t 

RrgS'Ti ff^cT =5r i 

3T^:grT!T ^ 

^ rTi'rg ii'<¬´ii 

Sloka /O.‚Äî Mental agitation, ill-health and embar- 
rassment in all possible ways will be the result of the 
Sun's transit in the 5th house. The Sun in the 6th 
house will remove all diseases, destroy enemies, and 
dispel all sorrows and mental anxieties. In the 7th 
house, there will be wearisome travelling, dise,ases of 
the stomach and the anus. The person concerned will 

37 



290 Adh. XXV! 


further suffer humiliation. During the Sun's transit in 
the 8th house, the native will suffer from fear, and 
diseases. He will be drawn to a quarrel. He will incur 
royal displeasure and he will suffer also from excessive 
heat. 

ITI^r^JTT I 

wrsf iTR 

Sloka .27."‚Äî The Sun's transit in the 9th house will 
cause to the native danger, humiliation, separation 
from his kith and kin and mental depression. During 
the Sun's passage through the 10th house a very 
mighty undertaking will be successfully completed. 
A new position, honour, wealth and freedom from 
diseases will be the effect of the Sun's transit in the 
11th house. When the Sun passes through the 12th 
house, there will be sorrow, loss of wealth, quarrel with 
one's friends and fever. 

Sloka IS. ‚Äî The Moon in her travels through the 
12 houses counted from the ^rTTTTf% (Janmarasi) will 
give the following respective effects: (1) dawning of 
fortune (2) loss of wealth (3) success (4) fear (5) sorrow 
(6) freedom from disease (7) happiness (8) untoward 
events ( 9 ) sickness (10) attainment of one's cherished 
wishes (11) joy and (12) expenditure. 





291 


SI. 13-15 

3r=!T S^iiriJITTSTJTlT 

5E¬´rR^^ ^gf^csTf \\W\ 

Sloka 13,‚Äî 'When Mars transits the Janma Rasi, there 
will result dejection of the*mind, separation from one's 
relations and diseases caused by (impurity of) blood, 
bile or heat. In his passage through the 2nd house, 
Mars will cause tear, hot words, and loss of wealth. In 
the 3rd house, the effect will be success (in everything) 
and happiness through the attainment of golden orna- 
ments. During his passage in the 4th house, he will 
cause loss of position, disease of the belly such as 
dysentery, diarrhoea, etc , and sorrow through re- 
lations. 

Rrir^rJTvi ii?yil 

Sloka 14, ‚Äî The effect of Mars' transit through the 
5th house will be fever, improper desires, mental 
anguish caused through one's son, or quarrel with 
one's relations. When Mars transits the 6th house he 
will bring about the termination of strife and the 
withdrawal of enemies, alleviation of disease, victory, 
financial gain and success in all undertakings 

Sloka 15 . ‚Äî When Mars transits the 7th house, there 
>vill arise niisunderstanding with one's own wife, eye- 



892 Adh. XXVI 

disease, stomach-ache and the like. In the 8th house, 
the native will suffer from fever ; his body will become 
soiled by blood. He will have lost his wealth 
and honour. In his transit through the 9th house, 
Mars will bring about hujniliation through loss of 
wealth, etc.. The nafive's gait will become retarded 
due to bodily weakness and wastage in the several 
constituent elements of the body. 

¬´riT: % I 

‚Ä¢3-toriJT^I#; ||^?,|| 

Sloka 16 . ‚Äî When Mars passes through the 10th 
house, the person concerned will either misbehave (i.e,, 
his behaviour will not be above board), or he will fail 
in his attempts. He will have exhaustion. In the 
11th house, there will be financial gain, freedom from 
sickness, addition to landed property, etc. Mars in his 
transit in the 12th house will bring about loss of 
wealth, and the native will suffer from diseases caused 
by excessive heat. 

^ =Eriff ii n 

Sloka 17 . ‚Äî Mercury in his transit through the 12 
houses reckoned from the Janma Rasi will cause in 
their order the following respective effects : (1) loss of 

wealth (2) financial gain (3) fear from enemies (4) in- 
flux of money (5) quarrel with ones wife and child- 
ren (6) success (7) misunderstandings (8) acquisition 
of children, wealth, etc, (9) impediments (10) happi- 
all round (11) prosperity and (12) fear of humili- 
ation. 



^1. 18-10 


203 


5TrJTf^ %?rfJrn‚ÄòITR'TTPT^T^W ?Tf?rf 

srr^% 57^ ^^rsTFrf qr^rii; i 

f faj=T% f^¬´r^q-t^[Tf^qRr?ffT 

Ttlr^f^TTift^rW iK-iii 

Sloka 18. ‚Äî During Jupiter's transit through the 
Janma Rasi, the person concerned may have to leave 
his country, incur heavy expenditure and bear ill-will 
towards others. When Jupiter passes through the 
2nd house, the native will acquire money and will 
have domestic happiness. His words will have 
weight. In the 3rd house, loss of position, separation 
from one's friends, obstacle to business and disease 
will result. When Jupiter transits the 4th house, there 
will be sorrow through relations ; the person will 
suffer humiliation and will have to apprehend danger 
from cattle. 


Tg tf[:?5!TffrT RT^T: ^^5rT?T?lt I 

5ftVTJTtrr% ^Br?T^T wq^lpirf 
TTUtWJH'ITR'^II^W‚ÄôT^ 1 1'.¬Æ." 

SJoka 19. ‚Äî Acquisition of children, friendship with 
the good and royal favour will mark Jupiter's passage 
through the 5th house. In the 6th house, the native 
will have trouble from his enemies and cousins. He 
will also suffer from diseases. When Jupiter transits 
the 7th house, the person will travel on. an auspicious 
undertaking, will be happy with his wife and will be 
blessed with children. In the 8th house, he will have 
fatigue by wearisome journeys, will be unlucky, suffer 
loss of money and will be miserable, 



294 


Adh. XXVI 


^^?T^^sn^^5rTf^tftsri i. 

^5r^?it^*nqrifT5rT¬ªfV 

IRoll 

Sloka 20. ‚Äî During Jupiter's passage through the 9th 
house, the person concerned will succeed in enjoying 
all prosperity. In the 10th house, danger to one's 
property, position and children is expected. Acquisi' 
tion of children, new position, honour and the like 
may be expected during Jupiter's transit through the 
11th house. In the 12th house, there will be grief and 
fear caused through property. 

^5rfJTVT5Tq'wR?Tf^f^ftlTr5p[ \r<\\\ 

S/oA'o 27.‚Äî When Venus transits the Janmarasi, he 
will confer on the native all kinds of enjoyments. He 
will cause financial gain when in the 2nd house ; 
prosperity in the 3rd ; increase of happiness and 
friends in the 4th ; acquisition of children in the 5th ; 
mishap in the 6th ; trouble to wife in the 7th ; wealth 
in the 8th ; happiness in the 9th ; quarrel in the 10th ; 
safety in the 11th and acquisition of money in the 12th. 

arsr^trf^f t% 



SI. 22-23 




2U5 


Sloka 22 , ‚Äî During Saturn's transit through the 
Janmarasi, the native will suffer from disease ; he will 
perform funeral rites ; in the 2nd house he will suffer 
trouble to wealth and children ; in the 3rd house, there 
will be acquisition of position oj: employment, servants 
and money. During Saturn's transit in the 4th house, 
there will be loss of wife, relation and wealth. In his 
transit through the 5th house, wealth will decline, 
there will be loss of children and the native's mind 
will become confused. In the 6th, -Saturn causes 
happiness all round. In the 7th, the native's wife will 
suffer; there will be travelling ; he will be depressed 
by fear. In the 8th house, there will be loss in children, 
cattle, friends and wealth. The native will also suffer 
from disease. 

fqiTIPrT livsii 

Sloka 23 . ‚ÄîIn his passage through the 9th house. 
Saturn will bring about loss in finance. There will be 
many obstacles for the native's doing any good action. 
A relative who is equal to the father will die. There 
will be perpetual sorrow. In his transit through the 
10th house, Saturn will make the native do a sinful 
deed. There will be loss of honour. The person may 
suffer from disease. Saturn in the 11th house confers 
all kinds of happiness and wealth on the native, who 
will also receive unique honour. When Saturn is in 
the 12.th house, the native will be wearied by being 
engaged in a worthless and fruitless business. He will 
be robbed of his moneys by his enemies. His wife and 
sons will suffer from sickness, 



296 Adh. XXVI 

^‚Äôsr?ri5r^r?j;5i: i 

=5r 55IW ‚Äôg;vi¬ªt ^ liRvjii 

Sloka 24 . ‚Äî The following are the effects in their 
order caused by Rahu during his transit through the 
12th house counted from the Janmarasi (1) sickness 
or death (2) loss of wealth (3) happiness (4) sorrow (5) 
financial loss (6) happiness (7) loss (8) danger to life 
(9) loss (10) gain (11) happiness and (12) expenditure. 

f^%?T^q¬ªTrr#T 

f rri^¬ªTiKir?q"fl-jTt 

5r%rr^?r-53T^ qrqif r iiv-'.ii 

Sloka 26'.‚Äî Mars and the Sun produce effect (during 
their passage) when they are in the initial 10 degrees 
or first decanate of a sign. Jupiter and Venus become 
effective when they are in the middle portion of a sign 
(2nd decanate) while the Moon and Saturn bear fruit 
when in the last portion. Mercury and Rahu produce 
effect throughout their passage. 

II ii 

^¬ªsTr: w ,^\- . 

^5rTTBriTiTT%?ftsRr i 

^#tr?T!!ii^jTr5r5r cm^tr^T'Tiqt ii^^^ii 

Sloka 26 . ‚Äî Draw seven lines horizontally (from west 
to east) and over them draw seven lines vertically. The 
28 extremities or points reckoned from the north-east 
are to be assorted to the 28 stars (including Abhijit) 



\vj:st 




Sravana 
Abhijit-STmmJT 
U. Asliadlia-^TTmtS'I 
P. Ashadha f5l'T!3T 
Moola JlfTT 
Jycshta-?^1?T 
Anuradha'iTTO^^I 


NOUTII 
' ^ T3 C 73 

, p ‚Ä¢ . a> 

sr CD CJ ^‚Ä¢ 

' cH* O- g- ‚Ä¢ 

¬´-T‚Äî 

P ^ 

O 

fl) 0) 

, O- 0.4 , 

p p 

, ‚Ä¢ . 

.uq dj 

¬£| ' 
53.VII .ST| ^ 

3 -q .-q jy 

I I I I 


D T‚Äô 


knllika 
Rohini- rifg-oft 

Mn‚Äôgasira-S^^fen! 

Ardra-‚ÄôiTTSrf 

l^unarvasu'TIT^n 

Pusliya'7‚Äô:^r 

Aslcblia-iWT? 


I a 


llll'IUI 


SOUTfl 

counted from Krittika (as shown in the previous page). 
If the star occupied by the Sun at the time happens to 
be the Vedha asterism to the natal star, danger to life 
has to be apprehended ; if to the arfiiytrr^r^ir (Adhana 
Nakshatra, 19th from ^rJTJf^W-Janmanakshatra), there 
will be fear and anxiety; if to the dOth from 


xsv:i 



298 


Adh. XXVI 


^^W^^^T-Janmanakshatra), loss of wealth will be the re- 
sult. Should however the Sun in the above positions 
be also associated with a malefic, death alone has to be 
expected. 

Sloka any one of the three asterisrns referred 

to above be thus marred by the occupation of other 
malefics (other than the Sun), death may happen ; if by 
benelics; there will be no danger to life. Everything 
should be judged similarly. 

/;/uA j . -I( the 19rh, lOth, 3rd, 1st, the 2A>rd, the 
5tli or the 7tli (all reckoned from tlie Janma' 

tara) are afflicted by malefics during theii transit, there 
will be danger to life. But if the planet be beneiic, 
failure in business will be the only result. 

fan- WiiUJ ( Ivn-niai-KsMi!, , 

lui a!va) j ule,, st',o J alal^apiti i pi. (>25. 

?Ttri¬´TrT xt i 

^ cTvrr^^ ^ 5r?JT5r:T 

Sloka The three asterisra {vi:'., 5r?JT - Janma, 

STgsr^JT (Anuiaiima\ f^3r?JT (Trijanma), 1st, 10th, and 
19th) falling on a day identical with the Sun's Sankra- 
inana (Sun's entry into a new Rasi) or at a time when 
any of the other planets transit from one Rasi to an- 
other, or when there is an eclipse, planetary war 
(Grahayuddha) or a fall of meteors (^^JlTSnTRr. 



SI* 30-83 ^ 299 

Ulkanipata) or other unexpected occurrence, death or 
a similar untoward event should be expected. 

(fllka) (lonotos tlip lOtli star from tlio mio ijovornor] by 
the Run (vide Kalaprakasika-Cli. XXXTl [- 1 1 0, Taui^¬ª>'o XdlUon). 
lUit (H;! l;i])ha'.lrn) says if, is f]io2lsf star coiinfnd from ocfu- 

])i(r| by Sun. Soo nolrs oti Rl. d-S ijifriv 

52iTSrTSTi'^‚ÄôT^TF¬•if^^5T I 

i\ R‚Äô^'TT'Tf S‚ÄôRr^ q-; ^i^rrrr ?>-:? Fi-TTR-,?T-:;j liB/.ll 

Sioki so.-- A planet yield iiiq irnfovournble result 
when aspected by a benetic, or the one that qives qood 
results if aspected by a malefic, both become void of 
effect. The same will be the case if they are aspected 
by their respective inimical planets. 

PITr3[ I 

? ii^Ui 

Sloka 31 .‚Äî A planet in an untoward Bhava, if he is 
in exaltation or Swakshetra, will not do any harm. If 
in such favourable position, he should also occupy a 
favourable Bhava, he will give lull beneficial results 
(effect) to the native during his transit in that Bhava. 

1 

Sloka 32 , ‚Äî Planets in their transit through favour- 
able places (houses wherein they should give good 
effects) become void of effect if they happen to be at 
the time in their depression or inimical houses or be 
in an eclipsed state. But ii the houses transitted be 
also unfavourable, they give bad effects and that too in 
an aggravated form. 





^00 Adh. XXVI 


Sloko 3 . 9 .*‚Äî Saturn, the Sun, Mars and Jupiter when 
they transit the 12th, 8th or the 1st, (counted from the 
Moon's place) bring about danger to life itself, a fall 
from one's position and loss of wealth. 

^ VTT'jftrnrq': 

‚Äôii'b ^ 

JTRt'-'inrjritTiiri^ iiiiyii 

SJoka 14. ‚Äî The Moon in the 8th, Mars in the 7th, 
Rahil in the 9th, Venus in the 6th, Jupiter in the 3rd, 
the Sun in the 5th, Saturn in the 1st and Mercury in 
the 4th, bring about loss of honour and wealth, and 
danger to life also, if all the conditions exist. 

It II 


Tn tin) followiTii^ ^i\ slokfiAi, tlie author de.^eriheR how the 27 
p.(;!U‚ÄôR (f('ck(Hi(^(] fr<im i he rTiiuniaiuikRhati‚Äôn) are disti ihiitcd among 
the sev('i:ii liinhs of the naXive (tonecrned during iviUiRitR of oael'i 
f.f jJie ]iiaiietR fi'oni the Sun ojjwa, rds and tlioir etfootR are also 
sr.atod. 


¬´rJTT JftCT ^ grgr: 

¬ªTT% =gg[T%I ^ ^ I 

Rijr^Tr?! vr^if 

WIVT ^ =^W, 

SJokn 35.‚Äî During the Sun's transit, the 21 stars 
reckoned from the 3r?JT?r<^T^ (Janmanakshatra) will be 
distributed thus: (q) 1st star-face. (h) 2nd, 3rd, 
4th and 5th‚Äî head ; (o) 6th, 7th, 8th and 9th ‚Äî ^breast 

(chest?); (d) 10th, 11th, 12th and 13th ‚Äî ^right hand ; 
(e) 14th, 15th, 16th, 17th, 18th and 19tb-two feet ; (/) 



51. 36-38 'T5rr%5ftsv5!n=T; 301 


20th, 21st, 22nd and 23rd--left hand ; (g) 24th and 
25th‚Äú~the two eyes; (/?) 26th and 27th-organs of genera- 
tion ; When the Sun transits through these limbs, the 
effect will be (a) destruction (b) influx of wealth ; (c) 
success, (d) financial gain, (e) loss of wealth, (f) bodily 
illness, (g) gain and (h) danger to Tife respectively. 

trift TT^ 3r;iT^rB 


‚ÄúNo 

of 

Sinka T''. ‚Äî 

Rf'ckoiu'il froi'i llii' 

MOON 

Partirnl.ir 


star^ 

< ii;it;il star 

limb <Uvt‚Äòli 


2 

1st and 2nd 

Face 

Exceeding fear 

4 

3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th 

Head 

Safety 

2 

7th, 8th 

Back 

Subduing of enemies 

2 

9th, 10th 

Two eyes 

Financial gain 

5 

11th, 12th, 13th, 

Chest 

Mental happiness 

3 

14th, 15th 

16th, 17th, 18th 

Left hand 

Qu-arrel 

6 

19th, 20th, 21st, 

2 feet 

Going to a foreign 


22nd, 23rd, 24th 


place 

3 

25th, 26th, 27th 

Right hand 

Financial gain 


gr JT^nf 

^T% 3T7 =?TgTivT^?Tt JT^fT% I 

't. ^yivf ‚Äôg‚Äò3?:R%sBlr^¬´rT 

girirt ^iT?J7s?rr: ii^^ii 

g- T?; ^igr rT¬ªjr 

^ xr?-nr^: srmsw^?^ir4?T: i 

^1% 5rT¬ªrJTfr'4ir''-jR5g-^ srB^r fT¬ªjr 



302 


Adh. XXVI 




Slokas 37 - 38 .‚Äî MARS 

No. 

of .Itcckonod from the F:irti-‚Äòi()ar Effect 

stars natal star liuil) dvo: It 

2 1st and 2nd Face Death (danger to life) 

6 3id, 4th, 5th,, 6th, 

7th, 8th Twoioet Quarrel 

-3 9th, 10th, llth Che.st Success 

4 12th, 13th, 14th, 

15th Left liand Penury 

2 16th, 17th Head Gain 

4 18th, l9th, 20lh, 

21st Face Excessive fear 

4 22nd, 23rd, 24th, 

25th Right hand Happiness 

2 26th, 27th The two Going to a foreign 

eyes place 

MERCURY, JUPITER & VENUS 

3 1st, 2nd, 3rd Head Sorrow or grief 

3 4th, 5th, 6th Face Gain 

6 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, 

lltk 12th The two Something 

hands untoward 

5 13th, 14th, l5th. Belly Incoming of much 

i 6th, d 7 th money 

2 18th, 19th Generating Loss 

organs 

8 20th, 21st, 22nd, 

23rd, 24th, 25th, 

26th, 27th Two feet Honour, fame 



31. 39-40 3UJ 


Sloka 39-40.‚Äî SATURN, RAHU AND KETU 


Ko. 

of 

Reckoned from the 

Particular 

Effect 

stars 

i natal star 

limb dwelt 


1 

1st 

Face 

Grief 

4 

2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th 

Right hand 

Happiness 

3 

6th, 7th, 8th 

Right leg 

Travel 

3 

9th, 10th, nth 

Left leg 

Loss 

4 

12th, 13th, 14th, 15th 

Left hand 

Gain 

5 

I6th, 17th, 18th, 

19th, 20th 

Belly 

Sexual enjoyment 

3 

21st, 22nd, 23id 

Head 

Happiness 

2 

24th, 25th 

Eyes 

Happiness 

2 

26th, 27th 

Back 

Danger to life 


m?: 5I‚Äò4' c=T=!TTfr?''t:s'!'iV4:^t msw givi Br>qf% liyui 


Sloka /..-- Planets pas.^niig through Rasis containing 
more benefic dots in the Aihlakavarga produce good 
elfect always. Even when such Rasis happen to be the 
12th, 6tli or 8th, the effect wiil be good and beneficial. 

II ^^tTTfl-gr ^ II ‚Ä¢ 

2^: =lfg tfTiTTWrTR^JT lly-Jl 

tr.^‚ÄôTT ^ i 

cTR 3 ^trww iiy^ii 

Rw Itcj sTiflrtR ^ %it2r: i 

?rff|rrsT‚Äôrs[0T%^cn?TT 3r?iT^ 5?rm iiyyii 

Sloka 42-44. ‚Äî The 12th aster ism counted from that 
occupied by the Sun at the time, the 3id from that of 
Mar^, the 6th from that of Jupiter, and the 8th from that 
of Saturn are termed or forward Lattas. The 

5th star reckoned from that of Venus, the 7th from that 



3U4 Adli. XXV 1 


of Mercury ; the 9th from that of Rahu and the 22nd 
from that of the Moon are called or rear Lattas ‚ñÝ 

If, when thus counting, the (Janmanakshatra. 

natal star) happens to come as the Latta star, there will 
be sickness and anguish. 

W 5Tq4: g i 

Shkas 4S-46. ‚Äî During the Sun's Latta there will be 
the ruin of every business. Misery will result during 
the Latta of Rahu and Ketu. In the Latta of Jupiter, 
death, ruin of relations and a sort of general fearer 
insecurity may occur There will be guarrel in the 
Latta of Venus. In Mercury's Latta will occur loss of 
position or similar untoward event. A great loss will 
mark the Moon's Latta. Thus the separate effects of 
the Lattas have been described. 

oTrfTTHff ^ I 

‚Ä¢g'JTT JTfij^rrrrf^^^jTrg 

Slokct ‚ñÝ)//, ‚Äú‚ÄòWhen two or more Lattas synchronise, 
the cumulative effect will proportionately increase in 
intensity being twice or thrice and one ought only to 
predict evil as the outcome of the combination. 

¬ªTT'T%¬´r[ cTF^ iiycii 

' Sloka 48 . ‚Äî The Vedhas pronounced as auspicious 
in the (Sarvatobhadrachakra) bring happi- 

ness, while those declared as evil produce only misery. 
One should note this also while considering the effect 
caused by transit (of a planet). 



‚ñÝ 51 . 48 


S06 


The following Slokas regarding (Sarvatobhadra- 

chakra) are extracted from other works and wili bo found useful : 

I- 3nrr^i¬•r^:wt‚Äî 

3T¬´ir?r: I 

^rtqtvrsi ii < ii 

qr^ql^Ti; qiqq?:T5j qqrq =q5K ^f^qr fq^qi: I 
^C^qwlf^'^jqq ^qq qfe^qiqM qqr IRII 

¬´qt =q ^rf^sq^fq: vftsj ^Rhr^tI¬ªt i 

?:i^ ^ qrfq Rtsrrfq 3r?g: q:'4 q:j%^ ii^ii 

q?:nq^^ f qq =q qjrt qqr?: q-qat fq^T>qrq; i 
gsrt ^ fq'^it^q^a^fitspql qjftsq =q^ qfqq ^T:|r; liyil 

q5FKmq;iT:gqii^Ti^ fe'-^d'^r qr q:?qrq i 

rrqifqi^ciq^r^q =q fq-<-?r^q^^4?qt % qqsj II41I 
^qrrt =q ^Rc q^TT raqr =q qr-'if tt qqr ^r^RT^rq; i 
qq;R% q>q¬•rqq qqVq‚Äô^^^^m ^q^q: 11^^11 

qq %q: ^trftqg‚ÄôqsR W4^4i:qrsj?qiftq: ?5qirq: | 

^?Ti¬ßrq: ^rTT^j Hlxq:irfrnscq?q qq fq%'q: qr^ctilr iii^sii 
qf^q‚Äôq^^ it^'^qT qiT: ^3:: ^STSf^qqrRl qf^qq: i 

q;i^ qRqsqw^!' siIt^ ?iT%q!fqqr qurfi^ife^iidii 

II ^5CTq^‚Äî 

qqrqj ^qqsjqrfq q5r>qq^qqrq i 

fqqqirf qrqqlqse ^w- q^qq^iq^q; mil 
i^ijqqi ^5r {q?q^q fqqqjqr^qr ^5r i 
q^t^raq^ ^iq% qiq ^qiq; IRU 
qqqqif^ ^qTi: ^1% fqnft fqfe% ^qTq; I 
^^fqqiq-'ir ^IcTsqi qt^^q H^U 

fq^wqif^ qqi5Tlf^ 1 

¬´rq ^ qiqr^qtqiiqqTfq ^^qqi iiyii 
qf.^--39 



306 Adh. XX vl- 

%% sTT^^rr ^ i 

=rw^t f'rmisj ¬ªj5rT^m5T w>Tn^ \ 

3 ^nrT?m: ?5[fqi7Iif?TT: ll^^ll 

%raT5g?f:JT i 

tiRrorf g7w^?i ^r ^5c^r^ iivsii 

^TWT^^i ^ sr^TT^^t ^Tsrim ^'a^ftfrij i 
^5!iWT 5r 3^: u^Tin wr^nsi^i ikii 

¬ªjott?it 5rf^wi?:si Rr^fecrw i 

5gf#cft¬•r2f^ =‚Ç¨?mrn ii'!:.ii 

3[rf5Cr^Tf%c2rRT: ^^T: ^TT: gvT?r?-T: I 

=5r li¬ª/-'ll 

^rf^iir3% feirr: ^g-^cft 1 

mw5!3r?g<srff^oiw ii?^ii 

3T5r ^ir ?%5t ^T 
^F^wiw I iTcT: Tisrfiiw^‚Äî 

¬ªT?:w?T¬´KTt l^VT JT'^t ¬•r?T 3^T =g- rTW I 
f^5rn?rf wgror fiiw?!if?Tfl-iBR?icr: iir^ii 
^fsTtin ^^ETTt I 

?TW ii^^rr fm 5ftmRq'^% ii^^ii 

3:Tr ?I^I JI?:TfTT: W3RT JTgT^W: I 

?3: ^fST^gm^rwr: #T^r-‚Äô ii^hii 

'Tttryi 5J% I 

tf'KgrT T^‚ÄôTis-r^rt ^r^rsrr 

srat ^>11 #gr 3r#T qr?:?q-?:j^ i 

*c%?r iil^sii 



48 




2^: ^TTrJr% ?5rg^rf^?T¬ªf^: lll'ill 
?^*‚Äòc?TTBr ‚ÄôTTT^ ' 

aTwrrniT gnrT^'^^sn ii^‚Äô.ii 

75¬ªT8J fTjft 5r IR'^II 

^cr fi^r: ^=5r> ?;7TRfiT%T%!‚Äôfr i 

rTOT JTg-TRCT ¬ªT% ^ Il't^'JI 

vrq- ^ grq-^?i; I 

^r2^v:T=grgv^ !1R81I 

?T*ari gi^TToTT: ^^I5FT¬´ri ^tX5!TT‚Äò. ^j^Tir^T: I 
^T^grR-T: g^T: ^T?rr %^r: ^?:<TrcTsrTf. ll^^^ll 

3T%%^ JT^jer'ft srs‚ÄôTgrrffaj i^ 
dir¬ªft^r^T5 iPv^h 

wsT<¬•r^ T^^rmsi i 

^ 'o 

%% ¬•r%r!T^T llRHIl 

?r5i^Tr% fl:^ Brgnf i 

^grm^jT qf?^ ^=grpits^'?r?75rf: iP^Ji 

^^3 H-!7^fT: I P^ll 

;TJr5^% ^ ^TT^i^f i 

ff din?g^7^ dift %¬´r%5n^?ft?TJT: ii8-iii 
^iraRT^ ¬•r%i:^: srr%^T5ai¬´T5r: I 

ip.mi 

^sr^JT^TTHt ^ g i 

g gg? ^gg^g ^ n?oii 



308 




Adh. XXVI 


^ %5TT^?rt^m %?Tr tt^rr ii^^ii 

^5i?:r: stt^t =g7&q-m i 

g ^n^s‚ÄôTT wctt wViW 

qr^‚ÄôSTTfit ^Hr?:T ?:T5?r?Tfe¬´i'rt f^^r: i 

^ ?gr^S^rf iTrTT %m ^ VTI^f^JTT^^*. \\\%\\ 

^STT ^or 1:TW: ^ft^: ^^S^rTTt I 

f^5T i^'''jr 5ft%: JTi:nf ii^yii 

?n^T Rr?!!!? ^ g[[i: i 

5r ?F^S?T 5 |;*T =!3-l??T755rTT^^Tf^rgs|-^?:; ll^'^ll 
SRfTmT‚ÄôTT ^T??r q-^T I 

^ 3 %‚ÄôT>%^f?fV iJX'. WV^W 

^ grm 3 ^ ^Tg?:% JT^f % 1 
3T^?r¬ªT¬´TT ^VTT TOt ll^'Jll 

jFq^of ^\V(i ^^sTti; I 

irqfervit %3r: q-fira: ii^cii 

sK^^vT‚ÄôTcft fk^v ?r^w5ri%f5r5(;^T5 1 

?:T%RTnwrf :gr iT^rf^r \\\^,\\ 

q-^?Tt'7?Tl-^j:¬´r?r: I 

^ ii¬´oii 

?[Ifr =ErnjiTiT siV% ^f?r¬´7T?r iia^ii 

^g‚ÄôciiT^ ir^^5¬´FT 1 

f^?rW¬ªgfi$r ^^TsrrsTi^sr^T: 1 

fiWTTJ sft^TJ n¬´^ii 

3rjw¬´f 3Tr¬´rR Brqrr^ ^ rg^Ti^^ g 1 
*ETfl%^ g ?TT#3r5ftg¬´K3: ii¬´¬´n 



SI. 48 


309 


^ irir^ ‚Äô?r^ 3% g^: gvngvrn iiami 

STfiTJT 3r?JTJT^ grd^irgjw 1 

cc^t?rf%5rjn^gR 3r?rtT%if iivj^ii 

^ 55ng!Tif¬´rg;w5rginr 1 
fw^T gcCT THr5r*r^r % iiy^ii 

^ 3rr%flrrJT^^rin%sTw 1 
iiycii 

sTT^^R^ srsn^CT: ^grllrsnTt li¬´Mi 

¬´t¬´it i 

ITo!^^: ^qr^ptsR grf^gj^t iiHoii 
gw; gww 1 

^^JTg-^in^Tt g?f Wc(?^ WF‚ÄôTWT ii'ilii 
w^ww^ ‚ñÝarTff^^ grwiT^f i 

i^f?igsr Tn% g >T3:^5R[ i 

%¬´r^^f3[^?T%5T ^g‚ÄôT^^WTgw^r ii¬ªa^ii 

Manfcreswara makes mention of the Lattas and Sarvatobbadra 
as both have a bearing on the Vedhas. 

The Lafcfcas, are of two kinds (l) ‚ÄúForward‚Äù or Puro Lattas 
and (2) ‚ÄúRear‚Äù or Prishta Lattas. The Lattas of the Sun, Mars, 
Jupiter and Saturn belong to the former class. The rest belong 
to the latter. 

Thus, if the Sun should occupy at any, time, say the asteidsm 
*Mula\ his Latta Star (which is the 12th from Mula) will be 
Krittika. Suppose at that time, Venus occupies Sravana ; his 
Latta Star which is the 5th from Sravana will be Jyeshta ; the, 
counting in this case being made from Sravana in the reverse 
direction as it is a Rear Latta. 

In the next page is given a free rendering in English of 
the Slokas extracted from Horaratna on Sarvatobhadra in 
pp. 304 ‚Äî 307 supra. 



310 




Adh. XXVI 


I shall now describe the (Sarvato- 

bhadrachakra) which has become famous and serves as 

II II 


NORTH 


f 


^rJrfirrNi; 

TvrtT 

/v. 


srfejft! VT^roft 

1 

1 . 

3T 



rr 







3rf5r 

iir 

k 

_ 




* 

5CT 


7 . arm 

3T 


3t: 


3Tt 



^*TRr?: 

1 3n¬ª3rr 



w 1 




3n^ 



_j 

at 

^RTT 

i ^ ' 

%z% 

% 


! 


i 

g^rr 


i raf 


¬´‚Ä¢ ' 

5^ 


I 

1 ^ 

j 

<T 


' n 

1 1 

1 ^ 

1 

JT 

3 ; 

‚ñÝ 

r 

Brernm 

5'¬´ricfT 


?:^r 

1 



irm 

1 

an 


sorni 

In the above Chakra. 

(1) vowels and consonants are shown in antique type : 

(2) Nakshatras.Tithis, Basis and week days are shown in smaller type. 

a light for the three worlds and which infuses iip- 





311 


SI. 48 


mediately a settled belief and confidence in the mind 
of the user. 

Draw ten lines vertically and another ten lines 
crosswise over the same. You will have 81 squares. 
Write in the regular order the 16 vowels from ¬ªr 
onwards in the corner squares commencing from the 
outmost corner in the North-east, thus filling up in 
rotation the 4 corners of each of the 4 sets of squares. 
Fill up the 28 vacant squares of the outermost corner 
beginning from the North east by the 28 asterisms 
beginning with (Krittika), so that each side will 

contain 7 asterisms. 

The 5 vacant squares of each side of the next inner 
row may be filled up by ST, ^ and :¬ß‚Ä¢ in the East, 

by 17, and ^ in the South, 77, ^ and 

in the West, and it, ^ and ^ in the North. There 

now remain 12 squares, 3 on each side in the next 
inner row. These may be allotted to the 12 Rasis be- 
ginning with Vrishabha from the East in regular order. 

The 5 inner squares still remaining -vacant may be 
allotted to the 5 groups* of Tithis-qr?5[‚Äò[ (Nanda), 772[f 
(Bhadra), (Jaya), (Rikta) and (Puma) as 

shown in the Chakra. 

The 7 week-days may also be entered in the squares 
thus: Tuesday and Sunday in the squaie containing 
(Nanda) group ; Wednesday and Monday in 
thevr^f (Bhadra) group; Thursday in the (Jaya) 



‚Äî irvuTT 




‚Äî 


fv 

SSTFSpnf 

3r?Tr 



-s. f\ 


‚Äî 









312 Adh. XXVI 


group ; Friday in the (Rikta) and Saturaday in the 

(Puma). 

Saturn, the Sun, Rahu, Ketu and Mars are malefic. 
The rest are benefic. Mercury is a malefic when as- 
sociated with malefics. So also is the waning Moon. 

In whichever asterism a planet may be posited, 
three Vedhas arise for the same by its aspect‚Äî one in 
the left, one in the front and one in the right. 

In the two sides ‚Äî whether in the right or left ‚Äî the 

(Vedha) may be with a star, a consonant, a Rasi or 
a vowel and not with others. For it has been clearly 
stated in Rajavijaya thus : 

A planet posited in Krittika may have (Vedha) 
with the following, viz., (1) Bharani (2) the vowels?; 
(3) Vrishabha ; (4) (Nanda) ; (5) (Bhadra) ; 

(6) Tula (7) the consonant ( 8 ) Visakha and (9) 

Sravana. 

Similarly a planet stationed in Rohini will have 
(Vedha) with (1) the vowel (2) Aswini (3) the con* 
sonant ^ (4) Mithuna (5j the vowel (6) Kanya (7) the 
consonant (8) Swati and (9) Abhijit. 

In the same way, a planet quartered in Mrigasiras 
may have Vedha with (1) Kataka (2) the consonant ^ 
(3) Simha (4) the consonant g (5) Chittra (6) Revati 

(7) the consonant ^ (8) the vowel s? and (9) Uttara-* 
shadha. 

When a planet is retrograde in motion, the aspect 
is towards the right. It is on the left when the motion 
is direct (swift). When it is mean one, it is towards the 
front. This is with reference to the five planets from 
Mars onwards. 





SI 48 


In the case of Rahu and Keta, which are always 
retrograde, the (Vedha) will be on the right, and in 
the case of the Sun and the Moon which move direct 
(and have no retrograde motion), the (Vedha) will 
be on the left. 

Owing to there being no uniformity in motion 
among the other planets, three kinds of Vedhas have 
been mentioned. Malefics when retrograde will cause 
intense evil if they are in V 4 (Vedha) position, while 
benefics will do immense good. Malefics and bene- 
fics when in rapid motion partake of the nature of the 
planets they are associated with. 

When the four asterisms Ardra, Hasta, Purvashadha 
and Uttarabhadrapada which occupy the four central 
positions of the outermost border are passed over 
(transitted; by a planet, the following four triplets, viz , 
(1) ^ (2) qr, trr, 3 : (8) qpj, ^ and (4) vj, ?r, ST are 

respectively hit (have Vedha). 

In the case of the pairs (1) q*, ^ (2) 3gr, ^ (3) qr 
and (4) (5) ^ if one letter of any pair be hit 

(has Vedha), the other also should be considered as hit. 
A (Saumya Vedha) is one that is caused by a 

benefic. 

If there be (Vedha) in one of the pairs of similar 
vowels, the other vowel of the pair should also be 
considered as hit. The same remark should be made 
in the case of the Anuswara and Visarga (vowels). 

WI en a planet in transit is in the last or the first 
quarte of two asterisms (forming the juncture) in any 
of *the four corners of the square, there is the 
(Vedhc.) of the four vowels, 2T, btt, the 

in recp lar order commencing with that vowel interven* 

m ^‚Äî40 



B14 Adh. XXV 1 


ing at the particular juncture occupied by the planet. 
The eflects arising from these five are:‚Äî agitation or 
excitement from the first, fear from the second, loss 
from the third, disease from the fourth and death from 
the fifthr 

When the (Vedha) is with an asterism, there is 
confusion ; when with a letter, loss ; with a vowel, 
sickness ; and a very great obstacle, when with a 
Tithi or Rasi. 

When there are five Vedhas simultaneouslv, the 
individual will not live. A single (Vedha) will 
engender fear in battle ; two Vedhs, loss of money; 
three, some obstacle; and four, death. 

Just as malefics produce evil, benefics cause good. 
Benefics associated with malefics produce only evil 
effects. 

In the Sun's Vedha there is misunderstanding; in 
that of Mars, loss of wealth ; in that of Saturn, trouble 
through sickness; in those of Rahu and Ketu, obstacles. 
In the Moon's, there will be mixed effects ; in that of 
Venus, sexual enjoyment ; in that of Mercury, intelli- 
gence; in that of Jupiter, an all round good effect. 
When the planet causing the Vedha is retrograde, the 
effect is two-fold ; it is thrice when he is in exaltation ; 
when his motion is rapid (direct), the usual (natural) 
effect ; and when in depression, the effect is only half. 
Any Tithi, Rasi or Amsa or Nakshatra hit by a malefic 
should be scrupulously avoided in all auspicious 
undertakings. A marriage celebrated during a Vedha 
will not be happy and any journey undertaken will 
xxot prove prosperous ; any treatment given to a patierit 
will not end in cuie ; and any bu siness started will not 
be successful. If a Vedha caused by a malefic should 
occur during the time of sickness, it will culminate in 



.SI. 48 


T^r'ir^'Vsv-?n?Ts 


315 


death if the motion be retrograde. If the motion be 
direct, the sickness will soon subside. If there be 
Vedha caused by a malefic in one's own weekday (of 
birth), the person will not have peace of mind and he 
will suffer from mental pain.. 

During the transit of the Sun in the three Rasis 
Vrishabha, Mithuna and Kataka in the East (see 
Chakra), that direction is considered as 'set' while the 
remaining three as existing (or visible). 

The vowels ^ ahd aft in the North-east should 

be considered as belonging to the East ; the vowels 
^ and ^ in the South-east, to the South ; 
o; and to the West ; ^ and to the North. 

In the particular direction in which the Sun is stay- 
ing for three months, all the asterisms, vowels, con- 
sonants, Rasis and Tithis in that direction should be 
deemed as 'set'. 

When an asterism is set and there is Vedha, sick- 
ness will be the result. When a consonant is set, there 
is loss. When a vowel is set, there is sorrow. When a 
Rasi is set, there is obstacle; when a Tithi is set and 
there is Vedha, fear will arise. When all the five are 
in the 'set' direction and there is Vedha, death will 
surely result. 

Towards the direction deemed as 'set,' journey, 
^ight, discussion, fixing of a new door or gate for a 
palace and upper storeys should not be undertaken. 
Any other similar auspicious action should not be 
done. Whoever has his initial letter situated in the 
set direction should consider himself as destined un- 
fortunate for the time. 

People whose initial letters are in the 'set' direc- 
tionishpuld, it they desi^re supcess, shun a poetica} 



816 


qFvsr^wr^rPTT 


Adh. XXVI 


contest, a fort, a battle (consisting of elephants, horses, 
chariots, infantry, etc.) in that particular quarter. 

In the case of an asterism situated in any of the 
other. 'risen' directions, if there should be a Vedha, 
there will be growth. If the Vedha be with a consonant, 
gain will be the result ; if with a vowel, there will be 
happiness; if with a Rasi, there will be success; if 
with a Tithi, there is lustre ; if with all the five, a posi- 
tion is secured. 

When there are Vedhas caused by malefics on both 
the right and left sides with consonants, Tithis, vowels, 
Rasis and Asterisms at any time, the person concerned 
will surely meet with his death. 

When at the time of a malefic Vedha there is a fate- 
ful Upagraha (see next three Slokas of this note) syn- 
chronising, death is sure to happen to him either 
through sickness or at battle. 

The fifth star reckoned from the one occupied by 
the Sun is termed (Vidyunmukha). The 8th 

is called (Sula) and the 14th, (Sannipata), 

the 18th is known as (Ketu), the 21st is (Ulka), 
the 22nd is designated (Kampa), the 23rd is known 
as (Vajraka), and the 24th is termed (Nir- 

ghata). These eight are known as the Upagrahas and 
are recognised as causing obstacles to all undertakings 
when at the time planets transit their respective places. 

Ascertain if there is (Vedha) with any of the 
following asterisms : (1) (Janmabha), (2) 

(Karma) (3) (Adhana) (4) (Vinasa) (5) 

(Samudayika) (6) (Sanghatika) (7) 

(Jati) (8) (Desa) and (9) (Abhisheka), 

and predict good or bad effects according as the Vedha 



‚Ä¢ 51.48 317 

produced is by a benefic or a malefic as the case 
may be. 

The star in which the Moon is at the time of birth 
of a person is known as (Janmabha) or 

(Janmarlcsha). The 10th therefrom is called 
(Karmabha) or (Karmarksha). The 19th is designat- 
ed as ^Tr^yi^r (Adhana), the 23rd is termed 
(Vinasana) or (Vainasika), the 18th star is styb 

ed (Samudayika), the 16th asterism is known 

as (Sanghatika), the 26th; 27th and 28th are 

known as (lati), (Desa) and (Abhishe- 

ka) respectively. 

If the (Janmarksha), the (Karmarksha), 

the (Adhanarksha) and the (Vinasark- 

I sha) be each occulted by malefic planets, death, sorrow, 
absence from one's place and quarrel with one s own 
relations will respectively result. 

When there is (Vedha) in the 
(Samudayika Nakshatra), evil or something untoward 
will arise. There will be loss when the (Vedha) is in the 
(Sanghatika Nakshatra). Destruction of 

the family will be the effect when the (Vedha) io 
in the 3rrf^ (Jati) or the 26th star from the 
( Janmarksha). In the 28th star, the (Vedha) will 
cause imprisonment. 

When the occultation is by a malefic in the 
asterism known as (Desa), the person concerned 
will be expelled from his country. But if the 
(Vedha) in the above cases be by benefics, .the results 
will be all auspicious.. Should the Vedhas with the 
Upagrahas (see suprc) also occur simultaneously, the 
result will be death and nothing short of that, 



318 




Adh. XXVI 


When at the time of a battle, there is a (Vedha) 
caused by one, two, three, four or five malefics, the 
corresponding effects will be fear, failure, killing 
{blood-.shed), death and ignominy respectively. 

When the Moon happens to be in a^^ (Vedha) 
simultaneously with a (Tithi) or Nakshatra, a 

vowel, a Rasi and a consonant on any day, that day will 
prove auspicious or otherwise according as the planet 
causing the Vedha is benefic or malefic. 

While the use of the Sarvatobhadra Chakra and the 
light it may throw on the human cycle of life on the 
person concerned has fully been explained in p. 312 
supra, the technique and the pointeers to such deduc- 
tions (of results) have not had full explanation to make 
the same both handy and useful for easy reference. The 
same has been explained below. ^ 



Isl 

piul 

% 

t 2r\(l 
a pada pad* 

% ^ 

4th 
i pada 


1st 2nd 3rd 4th 
pada pada pada pada, 

^ 1 ^ 

¬´n:ofir 

fe- 

‚ñÝ ^ 



fe^rrusTT 

fe 

g 




ar 

T 



argngi 

z 


5 



arV 


fe 



?ft 

rr 

fe 

5 


% 



fe 




ST 

fe 

3TT3[i 

¬• 





I 

¬´T 

VT 



% 



% 



^ . 

fe 


I 


d 


arfeferi; 

1 

% 

ift 




I 

% 


srsfor 

fe 

3 

% 



JT 


g 



rr 

fe 

n 

rt 


rrt 

z 

k 


5r?rfeorT 



fe 

g 


% 



fe 







5 

¬´T 

or 

z 



?r 





r: 

k 




fe 



SI. ^19 


There are 112 letters (or sounds) belonging to the 
28 asterisms at the rate of one letter for each Nakshatra 
pada. These are mentioned for ready reference. Per- 
sons whose names begin with any one of these letters 
have got a bearing on the corresponding Nakshatra 
pada and judged accordingly.' 

^Tlfpcf 

Sloka 49,‚Äî \{ planets should be badly situated 
whether during their Das^ Bhukti, Ashtakavarga or 
transit, one ought to invOTe by prayers and incanta- 
tions agreeable to the concerned planets and perform 
Shantis or propitiatory rites for averting the evil other- 
wise threatening, by doing virtuous actions, observing 
religious vows, making gifts and doing proper adora- 
tions. 

iihoii 

Sloka SO, ‚Äî Planets are always favourable to one 
who is harmless (who does not injure others), who 
possesses self control, who has earned wealth 
through virtuous means and who is always observing 
religious discipline. 

Thus ends the 26th Adhyaya on '"Transits of Planets" 
in t he work Phaladeepika composed by Mantreswara. 

II II 

, II ii 

srit %% 3^ ^t¬ªir 5 n% ^ grR-: 11 ^11 

ADHYAYA XXVII. 

Sloka 1 . ‚Äî When the lord of the 10th house conjoint- 
ly occupies a Kendra or Trikona position with four 



32o 




Adh. XXVII 


other planets, the person born will attain emancipation. 
It the end of a Rasi be rising and the same be owned 
by a benefic, and Jupiter occupy a Kendra or a Tri- 
kona, then also will the person born attain emanci-' 
pation* 

Thu first line may also boiritGrpnjtod as ‚Äî wlien four planofcs 
arc posited in Kendras or Konas or when tlie lord of the lOfch 
liouse is conjoined with four planets. 

srsr^^T^t cT^r iRii 

Sloka 2 , ‚Äî If at a birth four or more planets occupy 
a single house, the person born should be said to 
become an ascetic of the class signified by the 
strongest of them ; while others are of opinion that if 
the lord of the lOth house be one of the four or five 
planets conjoined in a house, the person born will be- 
long to that class of ascetics indicated by the lord of 
the 10th Bhava. 

gir iT^T^g5?TT ?Tt 5 ^: ii^ii 

Sloka 3 . ‚Äî The .Moon posited in a decanate owned 
by Saturn and aspected by Mars and Saturn will make 
the person born an ascetic. If the Moon occupy a 
Navamsa owned by Mars and be aspected by Saturn, 
the person born will enter the class of asceticism signi- 
fied by the planet Mars. 

iiyii 

Sloka 4. ‚Äî If at a birth the lord of the s^gn occupied 
‚Ä¢by the Moon having no aspect of other planets on itself 
be aspected by Saturn, the person concerned surely 
becomes an ascetic of the particular class of signified 
by the 

The remarks made above apply here too. 



SI. 6-6 




321 


gr ¬´Eor?ii^ cr^3Ecfr^¬ªTT?¬´i fkiTTg- 

%TTf?T?rTft5T ^T 

<7%^ 5rT5¬´i ^it iimi 

Sloka 5 .‚Äî *The Sun will cause the native to become 
a chief or lord among contemplative saints or one who 
has taken initiation of asceticism ; the Moon will 
make him a traveller visiting places of pilgrimage ; 
Mars will make him an ascetic of the Buddhist class 
and an expert in base spells ; Mercury will enable 
the man to become a mendicant who does not know 
anything about the various philosophical schools ; 
Jupiter will make the man versed in Vedanta philo- 
sophy or an eminent ascetic ; Venus will make him 
a religious hypocrite, (/.e., one who assumes the dress, 
etc.; of an ascetic to gain a livelihood), ^n outcast 
or a public dancer ; and Saturn will enable him to 
become an outcast or a heretic. 

3T^5r?T¬´r5r2Tfr: ^crg- 

:fecr: ^fTTTfTat 

ii^ii 


Sloka 6 , ‚Äî The Moon becomes exeedingly powerful 
in the bright half of the month. If the lord of 
the Lagna should aspect the Moon when he is de- 
void of strength (/.e., the waning Moon, say), the person^ 
born will becoirie a miserable ascetic engaged in the 
practice of rigorous penance, distressed and wretched, 
without wealth or helpmate and getting his food and 
drink with great difficulty. 

<u.^‚Äî 41 



82^ 




Aah. xxvii 


^:T3T?ft*T> ^t- 

^f%cr 

!TorrTg¬´T%^f^r: ^^^'TT^issrgjJTg \m\ 

Sloka 7. ‚Äî In the ascetic Yoga alluded to in the pre- 
vious Sloka, if there should exist a Rajayoga, it will 
pull up by the roots all the bad effects and then make 
him a Lord of the earth initiated into asceticism and 
virtuously inclined, at whose feet other kings make 
salutations with their head bent. 

xTccfid ?5r5i¬´r^ff?ri: %% 

JT^>Hr5cRr?:f^cri¬´rt ar^zri‚Äôrtnt 

?rJT ^T?rfir^5>;?TT?i: 

SJoka 8. ‚Äî If four planets with the lord of the 
loth Bhava occupy a Kendra or Trikona; or if 
three planets endowed with strength be posited in a 
ybod house, the person born will seek admission into 
the holy order and become a successful ascetic. If the 
planets forming the group contain more benefics and 
occupy good houses, the holy order will be one that 
is respected by all and honoured by the great. If it be 
otherwise, the ascetic order will be one that does not 
command reverence. 

Thus ends the 27th Adhyaya on '"Ascetic Yogas" 
in the work Phaladeepika composed 
by Mantreswara. 



‚Ä¢ SI. 1-4 323 

II II 

II II 

^TfTT^-JrPT: ^?rft?n‚Äôqr: ¬´F^^S¬´T I 

?:i^f ^rfrorr ii^ii 

¬•n^>5fi^^3n^5nm?T?TT^T trwRi; ii 

rT^^nn iTRi^^Tifts^rnf t =iar i 

^?r!5fl^TJT?cr?:Rq-T ^5ns?i HS‚ÄôrrHs^TT ii 

i^^T?:T5n‚Äô:rr?T^^?rin JTi7^^q-r?Tt leirriT^q-. i 

3T'e7im?rt T%?rf^: iiyii 

ADHYAYA XXVIII. 

Slokas 1-4 . ‚Äî This work consists of 27 chapters treat- 
ing respectively of (1) Definitions (2) Karakas (3) the 
different kinds of sub-divisions of the Zodiac (4) the 
various kinds of strength of the planets (5) profession 
and means of livelihood (6) Yogas (7) Rajayogas (8) the 
effects of planets in the several Bhavas (9) the effects 
of Mesha and the other signs happening to be the 
Lagna (10) all about the wife's house (11) female 
horoscopy (12) children (13) death incidental to child^'^ 
hood (14) all about diseases ( 15 ) the Bhavas (16) the 
effects of the 12 Bhavas (17) exit from the world (18) 
conjunctions of two or more planets (19) on the Udu 
Dasas (20) the effects of the Dasas of planets with re- 
ference to the Bhavas owned by them (21) the Antar- 
dasas or Bhuktis, etc., (22) the Kalachakra system, etc.,, 
(23) on Ashtakavarga (24) on the Ashtakavargas as 
treated in the work "Horasara" (25) on Mandi and the 
other Upagrahas (26) on transits and ( 27 ) on Pravrajya 
or ascetic Yogas, I shall now mention the place of my 
birth. 



324 




Adh. XXVIII 


JT?TT JTs^jgr^nr 1 1 

flrsTT^or ?=rrrr ii'^ii 

w>^ ^T ll^ll 

ITf^jg-rf^^f^cTT^T qT5r^f7^T?IT 

Slokas 5 - 6 .‚Äî After worshipping the Goddess Su- 
kuntalamba who bestows on her devotees all that they 
desire and through her grace, this work Phaladeepika 
has been prepared by me ‚Äî ^Mantreswara ‚Äî an astrologer 
and a Brahmana who was born in Tinnevelly'^ ‚Äî for the 
enjoyment of other astrologers. 

Thus ends the 28th Adhyaya on ''Upasamhara" 
in the work Phaladeepika composed 
by Mantreswara. 


FINIS 


Sri = $(3‚ÄîTku ; Sali = Offisb‚Äî Nel ; 

grifir‚Äî Vati=(3¬Æ'eS‚Äî Veil ; Srisalivati = ^(5 

Qi^ wCSai¬´? ‚Äî Tinnevelly , 



II II 


325 


N. B. ‚Äî The Eoraan and Arabic numerals opposite fco each Sloka 
refer respectively to the Chapter to whicli it belongs and to its 
number therein. 


^ ( 48 ) 

37 ^% V-9 

XXI I -28 
V 1 1 1 - 1 8 
XXVI 21 

3Trjr¬ªftf^^:Rr 
3TT?jrTf^,?nc¬ªi?T‚ÄôTt 
3Tif5‚Äô:oT3r^7:Rrfr 
arf^^r^r^r^jTfr: 

3T^J1<TTJT: 

3T?T 

ar^r: ^5r; 
arfg^TlirTT^lI VI -4 3 

XXVI-31 
3Tfcr>?rft% XXVM3 

3T??T: 11-37 

3Trmm^jr^¬ªT¬´^ VI -10 
XXlV-29 
iqPTtwT 11-23 

3TWTt?^T ¬´rgr!T^¬´T?fl: VI -32 

aTq'mn^rRJT‚ÄôCTfvr: XXI -55 

arTfn:^¬´rT*T5r^nT XXI -i 
arsT^^rr: XXV- 27 

VI-58 

aTJTC^^' XXI-56 


arjJirTT^ 5Tf^ XVI -9 

3T7:w^ 1-5 

XXT-71 

arftTR^: VI -60 

aTfi:7T?rg^^d'T^^ XXI-25 


arsah'^cT V-i 

3T5¬ªTI1r?fI XVIII-15 

aT^'TTg: XXV-26 

aT^g?ft^lft!r^T5I^: XII- 1 3 
3T5r^fl‚Äô?T¬ªT^7TIfi; XXI -26 
arf^fq-rg^^^fr VI I -8 
XXIV-15 
ar^riT^?! firTTim^r XVII*?:3. 
3T^ sncnlrgin^ XII 1-6 
3T77r^5r: XXVI-30 

ar^rTf^cT^mr XVIII-5 
XIX .21 

37# X-4 

XXVI-50 

371 (l9) 

arr^K^sc VI -12 

3T|?J7^77f7r^V#t ^ XX-44 


XXI-62 
XIX 2 
XIV-14 
XXVII-6 
IX-12 
XIX-18 
IX-lo 


I 37Rsq-¬´7T^?Tl^f7nftt?jf XXI-36 
a74Rsi7T^?7;fr^# XXI V-l 

375}^!7^<Tf^fHW%: XXI-65 
XVI-5 



326 


3n?*T^mjrTrsrsn^ iv-ie 
XXV-22 
XXVI -29 j 
an^‚Äôsrg^^ XIIL4 j 

3TrsrT5nnisTT??T^^*V^ xiii-3 ' 
XXVl-28 
anvTTsrarnrlrT^^srfjrXl 1-32 
XXVI 11 

ang^cj visnr?fr; VlIl-29 

ang^q'ffTof II-7 

XVIII 12 
an^rwrt ^3r?ft*rei XX 54 

arnrfgr^ X I V-26 

aTTf^^sR XXIII-17 

anfe^‚ÄôT XXlII-2 ' 

ang?n XX V I - 8 

?: (i) 

XXIII-10 

=7(8) 

T#3 XX 62 

^f¬ªmvTt¬ªrs^vnT VI 7 
VIII-34 
XI-2 

jjti^TTniRn^rei xvil-3 

XVIl-16 

xxi-24 

^¬´nv?n XXIV -21 

3: (2) 

XVI-28 


xx.25 

5K (4) 

XIX-3 

5H:<irTr^fr ^ VI-68 

"Knrfenrlg^ XX-9 

i-i3 

a: (12) 

^ *n% XXIIM5 

xxii-17 

XXVIL2 


ar^ g- 
u:^ gftrr^T 

o:^ TT^‚ÄôIOTT 
q:g 

fife 


XXIV -22 
VII -21 
XXVI-43 
XXlV-27 
XXIV-33 
XXII-2 
XXVI-27 


a:% % STf JT^nir 

XII-23 

tcif fe 

XV 21 

^ (1) 



XX12 

aft (2) 


aftir 

III-12 


VI -14 

I ^ (57) 

! XXIII-22 

XXVI-15 

ii;^aRn¬´if^‚Äô!iHvrTO X-i4 

<¬ª;5y<Rfe X-15 

XXI -35 





32t 



X-13 


XXV -12 


VI-18 

^mww:iinf^¬´TVTmRT X -12 

^5r^^T5rT %?TT 

XXII-30 

^r5rf3 ^TTf nf|yw;?g 

XXV-21 


XXV-4 

5Kls?iTTr*tir?lT5K%c?r¬ªTi¬´T: \ -5 


VI -69 

VI-47 

1^5^^ft?:iff^cr?;T%Jri5!T(: X-io 

irJTTiTfxfftsgVT 

VI-23 


VlI-13 

irT%s?5r^K^?:?r: 

XVIII-U 


XIX-14 


III-17 


XIV-15 

fTi^sq-r^rsTfriiT 

XVIII-2 

^^f55SV?¬´riT?IR 

VI -56 


XXIII-U 

firorre^ir 

XXIII-ll 


XXI-48 

%%iqT¬´n^5r?r*i 

XII 1-2 

%?ft^5n?n¬ªTfr?ft5c:i^!XIX-i 7 

1# iicT^Rcnii 

XXV-25 

Ejr^ ^IRf 

VIMS 


XII 1-24 

?!?si:BT^ar%cri‚Ç¨t 

XX-45 

ISfscBr^onfimt: 

XX-47 

%fjfT^wi5r 

X VI-21 



XX-50 

%% 5rfTorTg%?T 

IV-8 

%%^FT ^cfl 

XX-41 


VI-16 


XIV-23 


XX-42 


11-16 


IIM4 

sfT^or XXVI-12 

5ftirT3r% 

IV-18 


XIX-12 

j ¬´#sr 

XX-23 

j 

XIX-6 


VI-17 

1 ^rr?r3?:f^5iid 

VIII-8 


XIX-20 

! %%cR?iq?r# 

XXVI-25 

11-27 

1 

IV-15 

j #rqfq¬´T¬ªRq*nqf5rf?r lll-i 

fs 

III-4 


III -3 

1 *5r (1) 

5Erq: 

( 

VI1M6 

1 *T (25) 


VII-5 

i art 

IX-17 

i 3rq% 

XXIII-4 


XXI-68 


XXV- 16 



328 



XVil -22 


XI-6 


XXIV - 10 


X-8 


XXIV-ll 


XXV-2 


XVI 1-13 


IX-7 


XXV-30 

'^Fsf 

XIlI-iO 


XXV-18 

¬´T¬ªTsrrg 

VII-10 


XIV-6 


XXVI-10 

Tf1r^f^>sq-3r;r3r^F?T?i I-*5 

RTr?^if7r?:f^r 

XXI-18 

¬ªftg-nTcq[5rFiTg 

XXIII-1 

f%5rrT^4:Tf:%cT?:‚ÄôGorli5r: II- 1 3 

tT‚ÄôTf a 1 

11-28 

^ 4 :: ^ 

XXV-8 


VI -48 

15 (1) 

f*\ ps 


jftfkft f5rgf&t^ 

XXIV-24 

Vl-70 

JTCf^'ira^^ 

XXIV-19 


!rf : wff^?rncTJ 

IX-16 

3T (29) 


Wflf^t^rT! ^ 

111-19 

3r;n%^i6' 

VI -22 

fr^ir 1% 

XIV-3 

sTfiTiKTiitiT^gjrTg^ 

XVI I -27 


XXVl-32 

5r^t 

XVII-24 

JT^ 

IX- 14 

5IflT¬ªT^ir¬ªTT¬´IW 

XII-30 

!r%:¬´rgw; 55 ?%^ 

XXVII. 1 

1 3T'wf<n^r^^i?TT 

XXVI-9 


lX-19 

3TfIT^i^VTTt ^Ir 

IV-12 

^ (19) 


STfJT^frtTircr^Eg 

XXII-16 



XXVII-4 


VI-53 


XIII-13 


XX-33 


VlI-19 


XXVlI-8 

srat^-^RT 5f:?Tr^^or V-3 


XXIV-7 


IV-20 

<5rfs[TrH^sir5rt!ni 

XXIV-8 

3Ttir: ^^rig 

VI -9 

^fJTiaci 

VI-19 

3r^ 

XIII-1 


XXIV-34 

5ncft nsgfTrT 

X IV-12 

=g'S!srrRT)T^*n¬ª<j‚Äôn‚Äô. Xl-io 

¬´fRg 4 ::%: 

XXIII-8 


VI 1-23 

^ings^^ 

XX-18 





329 


V-6 
XXIV-26 
31^ XXVM8 

3ft%g XIl-29 

XI I- 14 
VII-14 
V I - 1 1 
XV 1-6 
If-5 
XI-9 


rrrer 

?n# sE^or 


11-30 
ll-i 

i ?Ti^^¬ª5crert sR-ir XIV-2y 
X\III-i 

' f^s^Twft.qR: XVII-28 

VI-20 

?ft^-t3Tr3ft4forcTR^ XXII 1-5 
XX 1-14 

gw^¬´rT 1 V-5 

i rfR f^r^rfrif X 1 1 - 1'8 

i fj‚Äô‚Äò-'jn??^q-ftrTT^T- X 1 V -4 
I ^TT wnritJ^ir XX 1 1-29 
%^ 5 |Rr‚Äô 3 ?T^ 5 ft 5 i 7 11-20 

rfr^T^‚ÄôR^g^J^OTTIRT XXI-19 
5r^i^fgf|ft#5TTvfr XXII -9 
^ X I V - 1 8 
XX 46 
XXIV-16 
nr?iTIRgj'F:?7T: XXIV-37 

R1^: VII-1 


?rTg ^^or^TTcWST ^ 1 1 

^^5aR^Jir?T'?:r ^g‚Äô XI-9 
?g?:iT5Rrrf^fgf XXVl-H 
^g‚ÄôCTRCT^rf^tT‚ÄôT XX 1 -34 


g (38) 

gr5FTS?^5IT^t^ XI 1-33 
XXI 1 1 - 1 3 
gg^-fiFgfeg XXIIl-12 
gg^igfg^Kt^r X V -2 

grT^Rg^^fl^sg?:^ ^^V-7 

gift XXIV-3, 6 
gfgJTRg^ gg XXIV-42 
ggrfir XXV -7 

g^tgsRR XI 1 1 -5 

gsrrgg^^wsf) xxii-13 

ggg^^g^RRg XXI -82 
g^ gggrfggg Vlll-17 
gwtg^ XX-53 

gigii^ 5cfgvrR^ II -25 
g;-^‚Äî 42 


ig?iTiiggjg:? 7 T: 


Rig-: Vll-1 

^ ( 53 ) 

^^riRigiggi XX- 6 1 

i?-T5ng%^?rggt XX-59 

XX 1 1 4 

sT^nrgfmg‚ÄôRgg XXVl-49 


^T 5 Tgi 5 wgj 5 rT?[r 


^^rrf^g ‚Ä¢ ' gr^g^tg 


XXI- 84 
111-2 

XXI 28 
XX-36 

XXII- 1 



830 


XXI Mi XXV-19 

TR^f^rT: XXM5 ^JirfnrWClTS^ft XV-17 

Xlll-ii j a;r3r?JTfT55rT¬´T XXVl-4 

WRIT XXVI 23 ; W5WTJrw?fk% VIIl-31 
^?rit X-2 i 5EW^*T III-15 

^tw%5rt XXII-6 i sftfTx a;T3g¬ªT¬´it?ft^ XII-20 

X\I-23 5riTWor%5¬´IT: XXIV-28 
f^RT xxv-3 5r^?nTW3PJrwn xxvr-33 

% VIII -11 sierwimBr?; XX-40 

VI-65 f|f3T?IT?K3'|[: XXI-67 

IX-9 TksrBrfVT^ir^^ XXI -23 
VI -2 RSEsnUTf^tTRcWf^cT XV- 11 
VI -62 ^ Vn-4 

XXI -58 ' 

:f :jjr R XXVl-40 ' ^ (^¬Æ) 

^-.JjlTfiTsriJTW^W I ¬ª6 : g5ri?:%: XXI- 8 

VI-37 

XX 16 XIX-11 

g- i-ii g^;n¬ªTf^^^m^fe?nXXl-57 

XXVM6 VIII-27 

XV-29 XVI-22 

WT;rwirftsR‚Äô!TWR I - 1 7 ir?T^ X VI-26 


XVl-lO XIV-24 

^i^ST ?5?I‚ÄôT?Tt XX15 XV-26 

XVI-14 yj .27 

VI-57 , XXV-28 

^^55cn^WT?T3: I Ml j ^ XXV-23 

^‚ñÝgf^srg^t3;5rT%?n XXI -5 9 I ^ XXV-5 

^wf^rfira-RT XXV 1-24 j XVllI-io 

^ 11-26 ^g: ^ XXII-8 

11-19 ^ ^151:51% XXII-21 



331 


ST (37) 



XXli 10 


XXI-77 

JT¬ªT?:?Tt?r5¬ªTt5r^ 

XXI -81. 


XXV-9 

7T 

XX-43 

ir¬•T% gvT??r¬ªt m 

XVI-27 


XXVI 

JT^TSr^f^^qT 

XXI-76 


XIlI-18 

;TRrf^vn>i¬ªTg¬´iTf?i 

XXI-13 

^r^T^VIRiTrft 

XV-3 


\‚ÄôIII-26 


Vl-r>5 

JTfF?y^5rm^R?T?TlVI-24 


XIV -3 

f^ryr%5^?:n-rr^:T5:^ 

XVI 1-20 

%Rrw^: 

XXI -7 9 


XVIl-25 


lV-11 

wTT^frftr 

VI 1-7 

XI 1-31 

jftgrrtsvsr: ¬´t?w 

lX-18 

sft^¬´Irfl 

VI 1-26 


XII-9 

XX 27 

sfrgrrR^fk^: 

VII-12 


VII-16 

sft% ^‚Äò. 

VII-29 


jft% ?reT^qr 

VII-30 


11-33 


XXI -28 


VIIMO 

^'TTf?T^>3n^5T^ 

XXI 38 

5Wt5[TT5T 

XXII 26 

^nrt ?I^5TcT 

xni-7 


XXM6 

rsf . 

IV 10 
‚Ä¢ 

T (51) 



IV-21 


1114 


Xll-7r) 


1-18 

/i^T ‚Ä¢‚ô¶n'^^5%^?r^JT‚ÄôTts5r 13 

'i?:TT?:'cnrrf 

Vi -51 

Tfr3T;rnifT?T 

xxr-73 

i ¬´TR%'T3r^ 

XXV-24 

q'T‚ÄôSFsrgifHnrfT: 

XX 37 

'TI%S5K3ry?I 

XIX-3 

q7%S'4JTi5cr^^ 


TI%5TFT gtTSr?-^^ 

XX 38 

qT4:5ris=?r?rt 

XXI-2 

i q-rf^f^- wqg-: 

II-4 

qi^T^lTIT^rlT^q- 

XIV 7 

' 'nq?T?7: 

XV- 19 

crtqiTf rawgvr 

VlII-32 

qrTq^g% 

XIV-20 

qTTrafCT?iTr%‚ÄôEr^^ 

XlII-9 

qTTifersT‚ÄôTwsim 

VI 1-24 






tTN ^ 

XII-7 


XII-3 


XXIII-23 

tTTt¬´rlH?:f^f53T?J^ XII 21 


XIX - 16 


IX-5 


XXI 13 

1 1 - 8 

ftrattoTTgRrnq‚Äô 

XIV -2 

Rr^'or^orvr^r 

XXI-21 


Vl -66 


IM2 

yr^rgvT 

XV-24 


VII 1-30 

5^snBar 

XX -6 

53 ft 5T^r% 

XXIII-3 

5^5Tt 

XII 19 


yiIM5 

S5rtrtr%ggf^ 

XXVI 19 


XII-11 


III-20 


XX 19 

'Jvi^EPFST; 

IX-2 

qr¬ªT^i^q-m?4^% 

XXlI-24 


XIV-I 7 

¬´ftt ¬ªTT^ 

XXI I-f) 

ir¬´f^r?Tg^?TtTt 

XXVI 1-7 


IX- 1 1 

srinf^^^T^t^cgfeTJrr XV- 16 

ir^if 5nr% 

VI -45 




qfT (3) 



V-2 


xxvi-12 


xxiv-20 

W (14) 


XX-5 

XXI -4 7 

3r?^|¬ªi?Tt^nirJTft;snrcr: XXI - 46 

^Tfvfr ?T^ 

XVI-7 


XII-12 


XIX-8 


XX-35 


XXIV-31 


XXIV-34 

t T^!cr% 

XXIIM6 


XV-23 


XX 51 


XVIII-13 

sigifn?nT5a?rift 

VI-31 

¬ªr(34) 

vR9n 

XIX-1 


XXIV-17 

¬ªnT?TI¬´rfcIT3Tm?T 

VIII-24 

¬•rTT^3ft% 

XXVI-20 

vrrg: 

XIX-5 

vn^>-. ¬´B5wf^g?rR 1 1 - 3 1 

¬ªTRt: 

^ XVII-7 

w^;rr^^4g^<:(I^d\ x-7 

3rT?T% 

XXVIII 2 





333 



VHI-35 


XV-20 

m^^^T‚ÄôTJTTf?T!!T¬ª?r 

X\ 

^TRiisfr^ ^ 

XV-6 


XXV-6 

¬´n?Tr: 

XV- 1 

iTr%5TT?'4?rvTt?i^ar 

X\‚Äôl-31 

*TT%>3T0T- 

XX 1 

vTi%5 

XV- 14 

¬´TI3r: RTT^rj^Tl^'n; 

VI -44 


11 32 

jj^^crr^gnT^'r XX\'I-3o 

Ij^f; rg^TSTI^g 

VIl-2 

5|>Tt fesTlH: 

XVllI-6 

i|5rr?TiarT5n?Tt 

XIX-26 

¬•rd5T^^<jrT%; 

\'I-38 

*frw: 

1-6 

STTJT^^jTfftgr‚ÄôT 

\ll-9 


XIX 9 

¬ªftWT5r% 

\‚Äô-4 


X-5 


XXIV-9 


11-18 

xx 56 


XIV-5 


IT (39) 

XXlV-3^ 

11- ‚Äò0 



XX 

-3l 

*T?^¬•5 q-^?T % 

IV 

23 

JT?^r?:if?5rcT^%% 

Al\ 

-10 

JT;iTr?:?Tt: ^?t5^ 

XVI 

-24 

JTT:nr g. 

XXI 

52 

JT^Ti^‚Äôft^?rirfeq-^TJr XXI 

-50 

XXI 

[-6 


XXII 

‚ñÝ15 

5ri?T: 

VI 

15 

rr^s^?:rT75Jfl-^5fVifr XXI -3 

WT^^q-r^ariT^q-iF^ 

I 

I4 

mfoTSF^r ?T?:wt: 

11- 

.29 

HlrTW^Isvi 

XXIV 

32 

wig: 

I 

1-2 

wrgwimTPsrsrr^w 

X \ i 

-12 

wrg‚Ç¨rTCfr^C?¬ª?^^wr VI ‚ñÝ 

.61 

wRfrf^T'-jsrmqf 

XXI 

63 

Wl?^ W?T^ 

XI 

1-8 

mr? f ?¬´r?:[%q'%i=rw?T III 

16 


XVII 

10 


XVII 

12 

WIrTW:g^Tr5F^:?riVT 

XX if: 

t-/ 


VII 

22 


11 

36 


VI- 

33 


XIII 

23 

jj^^ffi{s7?TVrTWT?5t 

XXIV 

39 

JJT^ 5frf¬´T 

XXVI 

38 


JT¬´T:smiS[ 


XIX-7 

XXIl-3 



IV-17 
XVI 11-3 


42A 



334 


XIV 1 8 ; 

XX-32 
V 1 1 1 -7 I 
XI 11-8 i 
. 1-9 I 

^ (28) I 

II 1-5 I 

^r^T^JTT^evrg^ra XX - 1 1 
qrsrreqfJrsBiq; XXVI 4i 
%% Tir^grr XX-52 
XX-29 

?T?rraift XX-34 

xv-5 

w 

XVI-34* 

^TfT^isrgnn =qcrt XV-28 

?tI X VI - 1 9 

?i^m%5r^Ri5rf?rcf X'\'-i2 

¬´i^vn%5rrnEwii5r X\7i-32 

XV' 10 


XVI-34* 

XV-28 

XVM9 


?nir5sr^% 

?T%I5rr# 

f 3r%?ri^iTR 


Xl-l 
VII -27 
VI 173 
IIMO 
VII-28 
XXIII-21 
XX -60 
XVI 11-7 

XXl-27 

XXII-32 
^X-39 


?rtJT9Fn:^?T5rp^t?^ XX-48 
?TV*fI?[r ^f^cT XXVlI-5 
^ XVII- 21 

xxi-45 

^ (36) 

?:T^!T^rqraq-5rT3f5r%f: 11-34 
XX 55 
XVll-5 
71%: XIII 12 

XVI 1-2 

T5=^r>7^in7fw ^ XVII-26 
^?rjr7?‚Äô5rr7T XIX-23 
?:T7f7% fq^frrTT XXV-15 
?:f7^ XlX-4 

XXVI-42 
‚Äô‚Ä¢%7i7r ^sfriR XXIlI-9 
4:%: ^7?¬´r^R: XXVI-45 

4:Tq;i^?3r^7 IV-2 

^T5Tin^JT7?ft7 XXI-20 
^nn 77t%r7:g‚ÄòRr^X vill-8 
¬ªft7f?:7gJTf¬´r 1-12 
?:wRor^7 ¬´r7¬´>t XIl-i? 

^7¬´TT7TSr7^ lX-13 

47^ RVjfIrWTl XV-30 
:a^77*rR XXIII-19 

ia^7t^?7N555r7): XV-8 

XXVl-44 
XXI -7 

Rj^TTI sq-^TJRUrt XXI -4 

ftgsriHF^nc xxi-66 



335 


^ XXI -6 

XX -7 
\"I-i 

35:3riim: XXI-5 

¬ª!?: XXI\-35 

VI 29 

^f^Tr^rTfJTfrf^ XXivs 

i\‚Äô-5 

XXVI-26 

^tin5T*r^r^^Tm xx\‚Äôl -22 

XlV-i 

(42) 

5r¬´flft5IIS!: VI -30 

5rjr^^?rTff5r^JTT XX 1 1-22 

?y?r^qT5TT35^?T3: XVM 

5yji I- 10 * 

tyjTirSK^Twvr^ X 9 

^?iirxr^T^ii?^??r XX IV -41 

^riiicg^s^Tt^ XXIV -4 

XIV-I 6 

^Tf^^T^lTf^<T?7 IV-24 

XXII-27 

5r?TT%vn^Tf3r? XV-4 

XXlV-14 
?r5rrf^Tf^‚Äô!Trr XV II 1,8 
553nBi¬ªTm¬´rTra: VI-3p 

5i?itRrTlsf?T5r5j^ Xlll-21 
srJrrBrrl Xlll-ie 

^5rr^: XII-26 

XIIl-16 



VI-28 

5r?nJT^^?{T%qT 

XII-2 


XVI-33 

?rRiiTmf?i^^^?rtiT XVI I -9 

^TRiRin?! 

X-11 

5!riJnR¬ªT^qf^3ft^ 

XII-25 

JTijt ?:rTCTITHW 

VII 1-28 


XIII 14 


XX 2 


VIIM 

5rr%?fT?T^?Tq'irr^g 

XV 1. 3 5 


XVI 1-6 

f7T%%g: 

XIV-28 

.c75Rt 

XVI-2 


XVI -11 


XII 1-17 


XV-27 


\ 111-25 


XXVI 3 

^T^5¬ªiR^?nT^?F: 

vni-33 

ari'itsTVTii^T 

VII -25 

' WT'4?f), 

‚Ä¢ XV‚Äôl-2'9 


XXI I -18 


XXV-29 

?r (54) 


XXVI.35 

gr' 

XXVI-37 


XX-14 


IX-20 


IV-4 





336 



XVI I -8 


XXI-37 

^r^eTisf^ff^rtiTitgr 

XXI -53 

^JT(r?it3r?r^ 

JII-7 

wirlrTTr^rTtg XV 1 1 1 - 1 7 

^JTI^lTT?fTSRI 

XX-22 

griTT^^ ffJT^r: 

VI 1-17 


VI-36 


XX 1-7 5 


XXII-12 


XXII 7 


XXII-14 


1-2 


XIV-8 

i^^prjr'O'T^'T^ 

XX\ -13 


xxvi-r) 

Brwfr: 

X\l-4 


\ 1II-2 


XX 1-9 

f%3nT?^s^( 

vin-4 


XX\I 17 


V [11-13 


VI 11-12 


XIX 15 


\l-5 

f^lsrJTVjq-JT^ 

VIII-21 


XXV-10 

f^5r¬´Twnr**^ 

XII 27 

fil^yitTHfiTT^H ^1 15l 

XVlI-17 


XVII-ll 

, ¬´ * 



VII-6 


XXI-29 


XXI-80 

RT^rm^rfftTt 

XXV- 14 


XXV-17 


XXI-30 

i firFafic^ii: 

XII-i6 

1 Brg?w<T^msq-5jsTT?i: 

VIII-9 

1 sftoTT^rrit 

VI-40 


lV-1 

srf?r*n>7m 

XX-17 


XIV-19 


IX-1 

i fTFT^i7: 

IX-8 


XXI-40 

: s?r=Tr^¬ªJrrT 

XVl-30 

1 5?firr^g,#?i5qBT5q-ir 

XX 13 

! '-‚Äô!TTfer?i5¬ªT7^^3Rr 

XXI-64 

i s^‚ÄôTITI^iT^mqr^lT 

1-15 

‚Ä¢ft (50) 


5i^t 

XVIII-9 

XXIV-30 

1 5T??i'4 g 

X\‚ÄôM8 

i 5Tgg 

VI-50 


XXI -44 


XVI-25 


XXV-20 

?[i%srg'4( ^ 

XX-24 

?rr%ai^ 

VIII-23 

5tf?I5T% 

V-8 





337 



VI-67 


XVII- 19 

5T%rR?I^5n?IT 

XIX-24 

5j%5nrfriirglp: 

XI.8 

rrfT^:s^f tf¬´rT¬ªXI 1 1 - 20 

5r5ft ^f5r 

XXVII-3 


XX-57 

51^; ?i#5r%: 

VI-4 

^r^of >Tsr% 

XXI-4-2 


XXl-22 


XIX-25 

%d^i 

XXM 1 

%d5r^'IdfsraT^ 1-4 

i'5rmT:‚ÄôiJT^5TT?Tf 

XIX - 19 

?(fi‚Äôrr5?ftf^f^ 

XI- 11 


XXVI-36 

g3j?rnFT%5¬´Tr^?:fri?^: \' 1 26 


XXVI-46 


VII-15 


X-3 


VII-20 


XI-5 

g¬´mi[inrt 

XXIV-43 

g¬´nf^iT5%%^ 

X-1 


VI-41 


XXIV-25 

?inT 

II-15 


II-17 


.XXIV-13 

5rt¬´rRfw? 

*XXIV23 


5T>*n5rrac vni-i4 

XVl-8 
XX-4 

U^TW^nr: IX* 3 

r 

: ^r^rorirg XX-:iO 

VI-34 

sfUTrJJ^ftrT^CTrf^T: XIII-25 
¬´n3TTfetnfelTT^;T XXVI II -5 
^5I¬ª5f3['I^T55nfe.^*T¬´r 111-9 
arsfk^TT IV -9 

‚Äô T (">) 

X\'l 1-13 

! XXIV-40 

q^crjT5 lll-ll 

XIV-11 

I X V i - 1 7 

I H ( 11 ¬´) 

I ^sj^vrt X\' 1 1 1 -1 4 

‚ñÝ VI 39 

^Tfrr^^Tiq‚Äô; XXVI ll-i 

* XX-21 

?j?r^orJi¬´rr XX IV -44 

5R^.??^t^?is?TtVl-34 
XXI 1-20 

??rc^ 1 1 -3 

XVl-3 
XVl-20 

^?n^l5TTrII3T VI II- 1 9 
IT% XI -3 

?rt# f^rT^?T¬ªT?T iv-14 



338 





l-l 

^r‚ÄôTfqt 

XIII-19 


XXlV-2 

‚Äôfrm 'rfertar: 

XXII-31 


XXI-32, 


II-5 

W'TT^Tsr^rviTorrfir 

XX-8 

?chfIv?T filrw:^ 

XXIV-5 


XXIV-36 


XXIII-20 

^rtcflvT^^^TP 

XXVI-48 


XXV I -47 

r VRq-5JT>3^ 

XXI-17 


XIII-22 


XXIM9 


\‚Äôi-21 


XXVM 


VI -46 


XX-63 


WcRr¬´T ^3r¬ªT f 

XIMO 

^fTT^gcrr^rsiciT 

XII -23 

w?Tert3r;r^ srg 

XXI -74 


XXI-72 


XXI-83 


XXI-33 

^<=r^^s{wRtntfffg 

XI-4 

w¬´jr^ori5ft¬´TJTf^T?r 

VIMl 

Wfi??:iTtsr: 

N¬ª ^ 

VI-25 

^Wf^JTnErr 

XXI-49 

‚ÄôR^^r^Tf^rst 

XXI-69 


VI-59 


Vl-13 

gRRT?:#iTIR 

Vi-49 

RR?r5r%?ft: 

XIM 

¬´%5r¬ªi3¬•T 

XVI-13 


XXI-51 


XV-18 


lV-22 
II I - 13 

ra^^r3r5r^?nff^<^3T: 1-7 

VIII-5 

^ 11-35 

gi:f?r55T?Tr XXVI II-6 

\‚ÄôIII-3 

5 ?srvrt¬ªT¬´n¬ª?i^ni 5 r \‚Äôl -63 

W^T^a^^niRSflt: XII-6 ; 

vrl*ft vill -6 


XXV- ll 
XXl-io 

11-22 

XXVI- 2 
XV-22 

^ia?Tfr¬ªTpT?iarvTTHr XV-15 
Ji?i'iTf^i?rf xxiI-25 

I ^5Tf^?ftS^t5TCR5f XVIII-16 
I XXVlII-3 

; 11-24 

1 XI I -4 


XXI -31 ; XII 5 

s¬ª *S 



839 


%g?!Tr!T#^ 

XII-24 


XXI 39 


XIX-10 


XVI- 15 


11-21 

^RTr?itimrr 

XXIII-6 


XIV-21 


XVIII-4 


VI-42 

?5ft^;ra‚Äô3rJT¬ßTs^jsT?r XXr-4i 

35ftBrfir?r: 

IX-4 


XX 10 

#tsnnfH?:JT?7fg^T 

XXI 12 

^iwsr?Trs^tr%¬´ftir3ri 

sir; V-7 


X-6 


IV-13 

qiiTRT 

XV 1-16 

f^5!j?:t5Trf^rq^: 

XIV-27 


1 1-9 

^ f^?r?r?n5ar^ 

XVIM4 


IX-6 


XXI-70 


XI-7 

?c^5in^ 

XX-49 


VI-64 

^srqsf^af^: 

XXI-54 


IX-15 


?^nRrrr?TRr^: 

VI -6 


XIV-9 


XII-22 


XVII-4 

‚Ä¢^^Tr^af^rTsirw^ 

III -6 


XXVI -6 

^^T?rVT^?T^?II5Sf 

XXVI-7 


IV-19 

^3irBr4^Ior^fc?Tifi: XX- 30 


XX-26 


XXIII-24 


IV.3 


XIV-25 

‚Ä¢v *r‚Äò 

<501 

IV-7 

5E5iI& sr^rr: 

III-18 

CTg:%5rTrfft 

XV13 


VIII-20 


XIV-22 

?: (7) 



VI-3 


VI-52 

5 T 0 T 

XXlI-23 


VI -8 


XXI-60 


XXIIM 8 


XXVIIT-4 





340 


._k:.Lk.A_ M 


Adhyaya 

Slokaa 

I 

18 

11 

37 

III 

20 

IV 

24 

V 

9 

VI 

70 

VII 

30 

VIII 

35 

IX 

20 

X 

15 

XI 

11 

XII 

34 

XTII 

25 

XIV 

29 

XV 

30 

XVI 

35 

XVII 

28 

XVTIl 

17 

XIX 

26 

XX 

63 

XXI 

84 

XXII 

32 

XXI IT . 

24 

XXIV 

44 

XXV 

30 

XXVI 

50 

XXVIl 

8 

XXVIII 

6 


854 

3T 

48 


19 


Adhyaya 

Slokas 


1 


8 


2 

VO" 

A 


12 


1 

3TI. 

2 

JT 

57 

¬´r 

1 

IT 

25 


19 


1 

31 

29 


38 

T 

53 


16 

? 

37 


51 


3 

5r 

14 

*r 

. 34 


39 

?T 

28 


36 

sy 

42 


54 


50 


5 


118 


7 


854 



II 



N. B. ‚Äî The Roman and Arabic numerals opposite to each Sloka 
refer respectively to the Chapter to which it belongs and to its 
number therein 


BT 

3q;[r-XV-8; XVI 17, 31^ 32; 
XVII - Same as : 

XX-56, 57 
37^q%^-XVIII-i6 
<fl 5 rr 2 Ti^-XXll-i 7 , is 
575rT3^kT5n- XXI I -28 
3Tir- 11-37 

XIV-3 

3T^- ri3 
STfl*?!- VI -3 
3Tflr- 1-16 
3T3T- 1-7, 8; tI-27 
3T%¬´ft?T- I II- 19 
StBt- 1-2 

3TVI- 1-8 

3TW- VI-14, i8 
1II-14 
VI-42, 43 
arvTtvr- 1-8 
3Tvftg?ir- XIV-27 
1-13 

arq^T- VI-5, 6 

XXVI-29 
XI- 1 1 

3T?cr^5n- XX-44; xxi-2, 7; 

XXVIII.l-4 


XX M. 84 
3T?aTT¬ª7T?:- XXI-84 
3T?5T- 1-16 
3T?c!nT- 11-24 
3I^Rr- I- 10 
3Tr?T3F:ilt- I -l5 
STT^‚Äô^T- XXIII- 10 
STT^rTf- 1-14 

STT^sq-- XXII-1, 2, 7, l4 

3T<T^R- XX-22, 55. XXM, 
5,16,28; XXII-4, 13; 
XXVI-49 
3T5^75r^- IV-1 
3lfiriJrT- III- 19 
3TJT5?I- VI-12, 19, 20 
XII- 15, 18 
^irf^K- 11-28 
3TT3n- 11-27 
1-12 

3r!J¬´T- 11-24 
STTJfSr^- IV- 1 , 2 
3T^f%- XIV-3 
3TW- 11-37 

31^-11-1,8,21,24,27,28,32 
3T%3r- 1-6; II-21, 37 

srirarg‚ÄôTT- XXV-i, 3, 20 , 2i 
srfls- 1-7 , 1 4 





III-6, 14 
XIIM8 

sTsrarr- l-i3 
ar^- 11-28 
3T^^- \a-57, 58 
arsrd^oft- XX-56 
3TWWT- III-3, 10, 20 
31^- 1-14 
3TCT#T- VI-13; XX-41 
¬´T55¬´Tsrr5rT- VI-2i 
3T3r*nni^- VI -2 3 
arwvr^rj^if- vi-io 
Vl-io 
VMO 

ai95Tr{^- XXIM2 
3T>^¬´T- 11-16; XII-21 
¬´ifsar^- 1-8 

VII-8; XXII-V 5, 
7, H; XXIV-13 

X-ll; XIII 25 ; 
XV-12,28; XXIII-1,3, 
10, 11, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 
2o; XXI V-5, 7, 9, 10 . 11 , 
12, 13, 14, 15, 33, 36, 44; 

XXVI-41,49; XXVIII- 
1-4 

amft- XII.17 
arfillT- 11-28 

3T^- 1-12 

11-29 

area- 1-13 
3i¬´Tf?r- XXn-20 


3051- 1-13 
3T^nft*r- VI-44, 50 
3T%- 11-16, 27, 28, 37 

3n 

3n¬ªm- V.6 
3n4T*TJT- 1-15 
1-15 
3TT^- 1-14 
3n%- 1-13 
3TT3fta- V 
arm- 1-15 
3TTra^- 1-12 
STTf^ai^- 11-26 
11-27 
3n¬´II5T- XIII- 2 
STT^IR^T- XXII 16 
snafRa^^r- XXVl-26 
arrsTR^riT- XII-31, 32 
anf^- 1-14 

XXI-54 
arrear:- XIV-6 

3nat%a- 1-18; xin-15, 
VI-14 

- 1\‚Äô-3 

arrfa- 1-15 
3Tfq- 1-15 

STTfVl^^nin:- III-13 
anq*!." 1-14; XIII-1, 25; 
I XXII-32 

i aiT^- XXII-18, 19, 20, 
! 21,25,27,29 



343 


1-6; 11-26, 28 

arr^fcoft- XX-56 

anf%- 11-28 

3TT!rf-XI-9; XXI 1-7 
aTT^^^r- 1-14 
arrq‚Äôl^^- XlV^-26 
3n%<7r- XI-9; XlII-8 
aTr3?:?rt?T- Vl-44, 52 
3TT¬´¬ªT?- 1-15 
3TTCT- 1-10 

11-25, 26, 28 
1-6,7; 11-17,21, 

27, 28, 31, 37 

I1I-9 

?‚Äô?jr^T<T- lV-5 ; XXV-5, 

24, 29 

f:rjfsr3w- XXV- 1,29 

f 

fW- II-5 
3"^- 1-7 

3^- 1-6 

IV-i, 5 

Xni-25; XX-63; 
XXVlII-1-4 

111-7,8,17; VII-13 

III-14 

XXIM6 

33nr- MO 


|3¬´nnr- XVII-IO; XXV -1,7, 
i 19,22,25,27; XXVIII. 

I 

1-18; IV -6; VI- 19; 
X1-.1]; XX-51; XXlII-10 
jTW- 1-9 
1 3VT?n:T%- XlIl-14 
I 1-8, XX-33 

j I- 11 

j XXV 1-29 

! 37 

1 3:';#- 1-8 

I ;s4gjir- XlV-27; XX-25 
5iE 

I 1-4 

! 5Rnr- 1-13 
?Bg- 11-24 

oc 

q:^rm¬´T^5Tt¬´T^I- XXIV- 

18-22 

1-8 

1 1 1-7, 9 
arl 

artu^- 1-9 

w 

1-4, 6, 8; IV-5; Vll- 
16; VIII-1; lX-4; X-3 ; 

I XI-7i XIl-5; XIV-17; 

I XVIII-7 ; XXII-12 ; 

j XXIV.25 
'^^r-ri7 



344 


IS. ^ .. ‚Ä¢ 


I- 6,7; IV-5; IX-6; 

XI-4; Xn-3; XIV-18; 

XVIII - 8 ; XIX - 16 ; 
XXIV-25 

nrK-II-ii 

II- 27 
1-12 

1-6, 7, 8 

I- 15; lV-5 
XXVI-26 

V 

^5n5r- lll-i, 2, 3, 6 
XXII-26 
11-28 

^5r- l-io 

II- 22, 24 
VI-18 

¬´injr- 1-13 

^JT‚ÄôTln'- VI-44, 51 

m-l7; XV-6; 17 
21, 25; XVI-8, 9, 12, 31 
XX-54; XXIII-14, 15; 
XXVliI-1-4 

¬´KTT^Ir<!r- Xll-20 

11-27, XXV- 1, 4^ 

20, 21 

^^JK- XIII-25, XXIl-2 
‚Ä¢4, XXVIII-1-4 

XXII-30 
1-4; XVI-1 
tKl g y g - IV-1 

VI-35, aO 


XlV-3, 6 
11-28 

I- 7 

II- 15, 22, 24, 27, 30‚Äò 

XXI- 62 , 7 0,-8 

l-io 

fTW^T- V-8 
VI-46 

fTWK- 11-27; 111-3, 10 

1-7; IV-5, IX-11, 

I XIV - 19 ; XVIII -n, 

I XXIV -25 

I 1-4 

V- 6 

Vl- 57 , 6 ] 

XI -9 ; XIX --2 ; 

XXII- 7; XXVI-26 
^tnr- XIl-16 

I - IV -1 

%g~ 11-16,20,26,27, 28, 
29, 34, 35, 37; IV-5; 

VllI-28, 29, 30, 31, 32‚Äô, 
33, 34; XII-22; XIV-9, 
11, 15,23; XV-16; XVI- 
6, 28; XIX-2, 17, 25; 
XX -52, 53; XXI-10, 18, 
26, 34, 42, 50, 58, 66, 67, 
68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74 
‚Äô 83; XXV -1, 17, 25, 29; 

XXVI-2 

VI- 39, 40 

1-17; VI-1, 5; VII- 
1. 2, 6, 7, ll, 16, 18, 19, 
20, 25, 26, 27, 29, 30; 



345 


X-IO; XIII.9, 12, 15,17, 
21, 23, 24; XIV-20; XV- 
7, 30; XVI-2,16, 17, 21, 
27; XX-33, 41, 42, 45, 
46, 47, 49, 50, 5 I, 52; 
XXV-30; XXVII-1,8 
IV-8 
IV-3 
VI-5, 7 
VI-14, 16 
XIV-23 

^<71- XVI-2, 17, 27 

XXV-1, 24, 29 
1-8 
M5 

f^q'- 1-6 
^X- 1-9, l[-28 

I-1-+ 

^cT- M 3 

^Brq- 11-24; XIV-9 
^q- 1-16 

11-32 
11-24 

%5r- I-ll: 111-1,3,4 
^^?rT- XXII-6 

¬ªir 

3I3T- X-l 

II- 2 I 

III-19; VI-32, 33 
VI-44, 54 

q 

4 r¬ªgt ?q - XIII-9 


q?sr- 11-26 
qr^cr#- XIV-4, 5 
qqq- 1-15 

qq^- II-18, 29; XII-20 
I* qqq- 1-9 
%qfq- 11-15, 32 
5or- 1-15 

Igq- 11-22,23.24,26, 28,31 
I 3qqgq:m%qqf7- IV-n 
^ 11-26; 111-16; XIV- 

I 9; XVII-2,21; XXV-7, 
j 8. 9, lU, U, 12, 13, 14, 

! 15, 16, 17, IH, 19 , 20, 

I 21,30 
\m- I1--7 
I III-13 

i Ttf - l-ll 
!qVl-8 , 12 
! q'tqq- XXVI-l 
j q't jT- HI -7, 8 
iftoT- VI-3'^ 41 
qt6r- VI-21,25 
qfgqmq- XXIV / 21 
11-23 

jTf^rqfiqiq- II 
q^qjq- XXIV-23, 24, 25 
XXVl-29 
!ft¬´q- 11-24 

q 

q^- 1-7 

q 

q?K- XXII-13 



346 


XII- 16 
XII- 17 
1-18 
^rg^-J-17 
^3‚Äô^- 1-7 
^g^'nT^iRior- III-14 
WS^- II-2, 24, 36 

IV12, 20 

=Erfsc%?rTOf5j- IV-13, 15 
1 1-3 1, 32, 

IV-16 

551?:- 1-9; XIV-27 
XII- 1 5 
5^?TT%- XIIM4 
^nr^F?!- XXII-24 
^rT!K- 11-18 
^-1-7 
sBrni‚Äô^- vi-44, 45 
f%scrtf¬´i- 1-13 

XI-9; XII [-8 
IV-1, 2, 4 
1-13 


22, 24 

3r?jr^- XXIM6 
XXV- 14 
5rT- 1-14; XII-23 
3ra- 1-15 

VI-44, 48 

irart^- XIV-H, 19 
STRTIJ- IV-20 
srrf^- 1-13 

I- 6, 9; 11.22, 24,25,28 
sfNnr- 1-15 

XXII-20, 25, 29 
W- 1-7; 11-21, 22, 24, 28 
M3 

IV- 6 
1-15 
XI -9 

fPT- 1-4 

rT 

rT<T¬ªT^- 1-14 

II- 24, 27, 35 

; 11-29 


tt5T- VI-44, 49 I ?T^or- III-3, 10 

XII. 15, 16 I 11-23 

^ i 5Trr^Ti^¬´l>^IHC?^- IV-io 

oTS?:- 1-12 I %T;i|%?:or- 11-32 

3T5JT- I-IO; XXVI-29 f^fq. XII-lS, 18 

3n=¬ªr?3f|r- X-ii; XX-23,63; 1-8 

XXVI-12, 13, 17, .18, 21, XXVIII-5 



347 


XXlI-12 

gSTT- 1-6, 7; IX-T; XIV-18; 

XVIII-9; XXIV-24 
ra^>or- 1-18; XI-5; XIII- 
23; XV-2, 7, 30; XVI-2* 
31; XVII-16, 17, 19, 28;; 

XX-36, 41,42,45,47, 49, 
52, 61;XXV-30, XXVII- 
1 . 8 

XXVl-29 

f^RThjr- IIM. 4, 15, 17; 

XI-6. 7, 8 

XXV-17 

T 

Ml 

l-io 

VI-57, 68 

IIM 

X-13, 14; XIX-1,2, 
.4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 11, 12, 
13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 
20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26; 
XX-2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 
10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 
17, 18, 19, 20,21, 22, ‚Ç¨3, 
24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 31, 32, 
34, 35, 36, 39, 41,42, 43, 
44, 49, 53, 54, 55, 56, 58, 
59, 60, 61; XXII-2, 4, 
12, 16, 27 ; XXIV-4; 
XXVI-49; XXVIIM-4 
III-l, 2, 3, 6 


XX-28, 29 
VI-39, 40 

XII- 20; XXI-21 
M6 

M4 

IV-l, 2, 5, 24; 

vn-4 

11-24 * 

II- 17 
lV^-1, 5 

XII I- 8 

IV-i 

f^sr^JT- XI IT-8 

XI II- ¬ª 4 

5:551- M 6 
5:fe?T- IIM9 
5^¬´I7T- VI-5, 7 
:|qT¬ªT- VI-57, 67, 70; VlI-2 

XIV-3. 

‚ñÝ 1-11 

M3; VI-57, 64 
11-36 

1-17; XII -2; XV- 
9,10,29; XVMO, 14, 18, 
22, 25; XX-16, 24; 

XXIII-24 
13 
IV-24 
?rfs- IV-9 
^3:5- 1-6 

III- 7, 9 
11-29 



343 


LIO 

VI-32, 33 
^gr?r- 1-14 
1-8 
113 

III-l, 4, 6, 13, 14, 
15, 17; XVII-10, 12 
's!W¬´r?T?7- IV-3 
¬ß:'3rn%- XII 1-1 4 
sri^tiTm- iii-i, 4, 15; XII- 
33; Xin-l4;XVlI-4, 12; 
XVII 1-16 
XIM7 
3:t^ (vt)- i-y 
w 

^3^' 1-7, <S; IV-^5; V'lT- 
y, in. IX-V; xiV-iy; 
XVIII-IO; XXII -1; 
XXIV-25 
vug- 1-9 
vjrg- 11-37 
1-12 

VJJT- XVIMO; XXV-1, 5, 
22, 23, 27, 28 
J|JT%g- XXV-29 
v>5 - VI-44, 46 

^4- Ml 

' 5T 

;tw:- 1-8 

snsFvn^-- XXli-io 
1-12 

XXIM7 


igcThfr- III-l, 4; VIII-34; X- 
' 11. 12,14; XI-3, 4, 5; XII- 

i 17; XIII.13, 14, 16,19, 
^ 23; XIV-16, 21,23; XVI- 

! 1. 9;XVII-1,2,3,4, 5,6, 

7, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 17, 
18, 23,24,25,28; XVIII- 
^ 12, 13, i4, 15,16,17; XX- 

31, 32; XXII- 1 , 18, 19, 

22, 30; XXI 11-13; XXIV. 
4,8; XXV-14; XXVII-3 
^rir?:i 3 r - Xll-ie, is 
innqtrr Vl-ao 

III-l 3 
- II I- 19 

nrir'u‚ÄôT- Vi-o?, 66 

XI 1-31 

R^ 5 T 5 Tfgfr 51 - II- 2 I, 22 , 

i 35;1V-I0 

XXIM? 

VI- 57, 59 
I jftsgr- 1-6 

5ft^iiIS?TI3r?lt?TT:- VJI 26-30 

53 ^- 1-7, 8 
1-18 
11-23 
I V-3 

XXI 1-23 

i ^ 

; 11-24 




IV-i, 5, 21 

iri-i3 

MS; XIIM5 
qqrqr^ q gr- IV-3 
qf^- M3 
qfsrqJT- MO 
tro- Vl-3 
tra^^T- IX 3 

qrw jftgr- l o 

‚ÄôT^‚ÄôTT3^-XXII-4, 14 

q?:jftw- 1-0 
qnvTq- 1-14 

q?!ren:- 1-2; xix-l; xx-4i; 

XXV-22 

XXV- 1, 5, 24 
VI -3 2 

qft%q-IV-5; XXV- 5,24,28 
q#- XMl 

q#?r- 11-28; VI.35, 36 
qm- xxiv-30; XXV - 1 
qi?n^- 1-12 
q?jr- I-io 
qtq- M6; 11*27 
qiq¬´#R:- VI-8, ii, i3 
qiqqrftr- VI-8 
qfq%%- VI-8 
mq(%¬´r- xxvi-48 
qmvrqsrft- VL8 
xrmK- VI-57, 62 
qRjq?r- III-7, 9 
tnferw- 111-7, 8; VI-55 
¬´*r.^ ‚Äî 44A 


qrtfft- 11-15, 27 
qr^r- VI- 39, 40 
j qrarlf^nr- Ill-is 
jfijwingqTq- XXII-21, 22, 
I. 34, 28 

' 1-14; VI-53 

I ft>rT- II-lO 

Trfe- 1-9 

jrttjT- V-0 

5^q¬ªi=fK‚Äô- XU 16 

XXVl-42, 44 
y!^-‚ÄòVI-19, 20 
XI-9; XIIT-8 
^r- 1-14 

IV-22, 23 

Xiri-6 

^wrq- M4 
qjdqiST- XIII-8 

XXVI-42, 44 
1-8; XIV-22, 27; 

XX-33 

^?r-M4 
qiiftjft- XII -18 
XXI I- 1 
q^-IIM8, 20 
qqiqjft- 11-25 
qqqr- 1II-3, jo 
qi%-I-15 
qzr3qiq>r:- XXVIIr 
XVIIM-4 
IV-20; XX.63 





iwan:- XXIIM? 
srii^W!- 1-9 
mfe-i-is 
irmwft- 11-25 

1-2; XXVIII-6 

w 

I- 16; XV-30 
Ml 

^SpT q ‚Ç¨¬´flH - IV-22, 2d 

wfinr- i-y 

nm- III-3, 10 
^TRnr^- XIII-3; XIV-3 
w Ton fi n a - XIII.6 
5^- 1-6; II-4, 11, 21, 22, 
24, 27 

II- 2'7i III-6; VI-31 
JIlRfNj- XIV-23 

WUniT- II-5, 16, 19, 24; V- 
6; VI-23, 48, 53; VIII-4; 
IX-7; XII-22; XIV-6, 9, 
XVIII-3; XIX-7, 19, 24; 
XX.IO; XXI-7, 12, 23, 
31, 41, 43, 45,56, 57, >>0 
67; XXII-32 

VI-1, 2 

¬´ncnft- XXII-6, 7 

M5 

1-12 

1-4 

i-ii 


1-14; VI-44, 53 
II-31 

*n¬ªhr- ir-ii4> 25 
1-13 

1-15; XV-l, 3, 4; 5, 

7, 8,9, 11, 12, 14, 17^ 3ft; 
25, 26, 27, 28; XVII-1; 
XX-1, 21, 29, 34, 35, 43, 
58, 62; XXV-6; XXVIII- 

1-4 

IV-24 

KTnr^rf^- XV -13, 14 ; 
XXII-27 

¬´rwf<rr- viri. 35 ; xxii-27 

11-30 

11-14 

vrreni- 11-32 
iri-w 
1-13 

^ (?¬´rnr)- l-io 

#f¬ª-XIII-l8; XX-23,28, 
37 , 38, 40, 42, 43 , 44, 48, 
49, 53, 54; XXM,2,3, 
4, 0, 8, 9, 10, ll, 12, 13; 
14, 15, 17, la, 20, 23, 24, 
27 , 29, 30, 33, 34, 36, 3.6, 
39 , 40, 41, 44, 47,48, 52, 
53, 56, 57, 60, 62, 63, 64 , 
65, 67, 69, 70, 72, 74, 75, 
78, 79, 80, 81, 83, 84; 
XXII -13; XXVI -49; 
XXVlIM-4 
5%sn¬´r-XX-29 

xliI-2 

II-31 





set 


i-K 

IM3, 1¬´, 19, 28 
¬ªi33r- II-6, 21, 26 
11-28 

sllw- 1-6; 11-18, 21, 23, 25, 
26, 35, 37 

m- V -1 

wi- i-ii 

IT 

imK- 1-6, ?, 8; VlI-20; 
IX-IO; XrV-19; XV-29; 
XVHMO. XXIV-25 
11-28 
XXII-24 
¬ªn¬ª¬•¬ª- XXIV-28 

XXIM2 
Wm- VI-3 
1-13 

JreqJT- VI -18 
4r¬´mi- 111-14 
ThthTlJf^- XIII-6, 14 
nitin- XX 96 
m- v-2, xnr-5 

1-2; XXVIII-5 
II¬ª^- 1-6; 11-21, 30 
mr- XXII-30, 24 
mm- M4 
irehT- 1 H 

(rtfPttn-XjX-l, XXI-2, 
7, 10, 11, 16, 2o, 21, 23, 
24, 25, 29, 35,38. 37, 41, 
42, 43, 44 , 46, 47, 50, 51, 
52, 54, 56, 57, 60, 61, 62, 


63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 70, fk, 
73, 74, 76, 79, 80, 82^ 
83; XXIMO, li, i3, iS 

VI-l 

iTfTvnnr- VI-14, 15 
JT^wht- VI-32, 34 
¬ªr%9‚Äô- 1-12 
HfitSt- II-3, lo 
1-14 
ingsr- Mi 
mu- Ml 
TITff- M5 

Jn%- IIMe; XII-8, 22; 
XlV-9; XV-8; XVII ?, 
9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 17, 25, 
26, 28;XX-31,56sXXV- 
1, 2, 4, 14, 19; XXVlrt- 
1-4 

JOTiK- XX-50 
Tinf- M3 

Vl:i, 3 

jrnr- 11-24 

IV-i 

II- 29 
^-Mi 

%!r-I-7,8; IX-3; XIV- 
3 7;XVlII-7; XXIV-24 
ifNl- 1-6,8; VtM5,22; IX- 
¬ª2; X-3; XIV-19; XV-IO; 
XVIII -11; XlX - 16 r 
XXIM, 12; XXIV-25 

III- 18 
VI-44, 56 

gj*- 11-24; IV-20; XV-2 



3&2 




1^Brt?Nr- 1-7; XV-ll; 
XX-30 

XI-9; XIII-8 

Wr- 1-6. 7 

jj*r%?:^i-XXri-7, 9' 
g?T- III-3, 10 
g%?T>T- VI-57.60 
^vn¬ªn:- xiil-9, 10, 11 
irV- VIT-9, 15; vm-l; IX- 
1; XIV-17; XVlII-6; 

XXIM, 23; XXlV-6, 24 
^wr- 1-15 

XIV-3, 6 

?HT-XII-21: XIV-23 

xii- 2 r>; xvii- 

6,7,8. 14; XXV-1,3, 18, 
19, 20, 21 

?wr- 11-28; xxii-n 

vi-39, 41 
IV-2 

I- 9 

?Tl5TOIT¬´K-XX-48, 54 
?rWT;- XXVIIM-4 

qlntfe- xiii-6 

II - 22 , 23 , 2 - 1 . 27 

^-1-14 

1I-1"5,21,24, 25; III-6 
Tlfenr- 11-22, 23, 27 
11- 7 
II-20 

VI-37, 38; VII-24; 


XX - 54 ; XXVm - 7 ; 
XXVIII-1-4 
1-12 
1-12 

rtBr^iffT- T-8 

JX-13; X-11,12, 13, 
14; XIII-9, 16, 23; XV- 
8;. XVI-1, 17, 31, 32; 
XVII-1,2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 10, 
n, 13, 14,16, 18, 19,20, 
21, 22, 23, 24, 25, XX- 
25, 32, 36, 56, 57; XXII- 

I, 2,4,11, -13; XXIII-1, 
2, 10, 11, 12, 13, 22; 

XXIV- 5, 12, 20, 21, 22; 

XXVI -9; xxvn-i; 

XXVIIM - 4 

?aTn5cniT- xn-I7 

^T^ssr^- XII- 24 

XXIV-24 
XXIII-2 
XXIV-23, 24, 25 
K\l- II-16, 20, 28, 29., 33, 
35; IV-5; VIII-25, 26, 27, 
34; X-2; XII-22; XIV-9, 

II, 15, 23; XV-8, 16; 
XVI-6, 14, -28; XVII*6, 
22; XIX-2,14, 15, 16,^1; 
XX-24, 31, 39, 52, 53-, 
XX 1-6,14, 22, 30,31,32, 
33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 47, 
55, 63, 71.7¬´; XXIV-42; 

XXV- 17, 20, 21; XXVl- 
2, 24, 26, 34,42-44.45-46 

I- 16 



‚ô¶ 


VM, 2 
11-27 
XIM7 
m- I-IO; 11-26 
rt¬ªT- 113 

d%oft-XXIM, 7, 8 
11-27 

5r^ifr!ft*r- VI-31, 24 

I-IO, IIM6, VII-5, 6, 
7, 8, 10, li, 14, 20, 24, 
29; VIIM; IX- I, 2, 3, 4, 
X-l, 11, 12, IJ, XI-l, 2, 

4, 5, 10, 11, XIM, 2, 4, 
7, 26, 27, 34; Xlll-i, ¬ª, 
12, 13, l4, 15, 16, 17, 19, 
20, 21, 22, 23, 24; XIV 
28; XV-2, 3, 4, 8, 9, 10, 
12, 17, 20, 21, 26, 28; 
XVM, 2, 3, 4, 5. 7, 11, 
12, 13, 16, 17, 18,21, 27, 
31, 33, 34, 35, XVII-2, 
4, 5, 6, 9, 11, 12, 17, 18, 
19, 23, 25, XX.2, 15, 28, 
33,34,41,59; XXIM9, 
21,22, 27, 28; XXIII- 

12, 16, 18, 19; XXIV-4, 

13, 14, l5, 38, 39, 41; 
XXV-22, 26, 48; XXVI- 
1; XXVII-6; XXVIII- 
1-4 

XXIM7 

IV-6 

XXIM9,, 22, 25 




I SyW- XXVI-42, 43, 4\4S, 
I 46, 47 ' 

55|S:S!T- 11-33 
?!W- 1-15 
‚Ä¢^srensn^- I-io 
1-13 

ST 

^5T-I14 

5151!- 1-8, IV.2,4, 5 
51I$I¬´P- 1-7 
cn|-l 7 
51?:- VI- 18 
crfi:5-VI-i4, 18 
5HT- X-4 
‚Ç¨111315151- IV-3 

III-l^ 5, VII-5. 6, 
17; XVlII-17 

^*fwiTt?n- IX-20; XXII- 

18; XX-22- 
^cTUR- f-lO 

gr‚Ç¨:fC<^%^-XX-63, XXII-24 
‚Ç¨i^¬´T5ior- IV- 1 
‚Ç¨ls5#- VI-39 

VI-19, 20 
1-12 
^('^-MO 

w¬´Rr¬´PT- xxii-u 

‚Ç¨IT*ftw- 11-37 
rnir- II- 11 
mniwr- 1-15 
wnt- 



364 


t\ . A 


^f;r- I- 11 

III-I9, 20 

I- 1 I 

1%iKin4- ix-14 

f%|T- 1-14 

f^W-MO 

11-15, 22, 27, 28, 3.5 

firm- l-io . 

XIV 6 

11-15, 37 
XIX 15 

I- 15 

f^rirw- VI-57. 69 

flrRrfk- VI-28, 31 

fifyn^irr- XI -9 

xiii-8 

f5rf5m:¬ªiT- XIl-15 

II- 15, 27; 111-6; XII- 
20, 24; XIII-22 

Br^WTir- 11-18 
4firr^¬ªT- VI -39, 40 

^flr - V I 

IX-8; X-3; XI -4; 
XIl-'3; XIV-IS; XVIII- 
XIX-16; XXIM, 12; 

X.XIV-24 

I-S 

IX-2; X 3; XI-4, 6; 
XIl-3; XlV-17; XVIII- 
' 6; XXIV-24 
%3flv?T4TJr‚Äú V-5 
^¬´r - XXVI.3, 4, 43 
XVI- 15 


II- 24 
XIV-23 

emfhm- XXV- 1. 5, 23, 28 

5^q‚Äô-I-16 

I- 15 

m>lT- M5 

I ^ 

VI-14, 17 

III- 18 
5T|f- VI-3 
5r^Tr- VI -37, 38 
51?- M3 

11-16,20,22, 24,29, 
31, 35, 37 

5T<Tr4:- 1-7 
5T*T- 11-36 
^rPTf^rTT- Xl-9 
?rmr- I- 1 6 
11-24 

9151- VM, 4 
?[r%3r- 1-6; II-18 
^f^- II-9, 24, 26, 28 
nrflrgw- II 24- 25, 37 

5n5?T IIM8 
mffcT- XXVI-49 
II-l6> 12 

n-5; V-6; IX-6; 

XV-8 

II- 16, 26, 28 
i few- V-8 

;%gr- II-l, 15,17, 27; VI. 
i 29; XII-20, 24; XIV-2 



366 


11-21, 29 I ^ 

MO I ^T^vir- XX VI-29 

XIII-2; XIV-22, I ^nSTWhn:- Vl-39 

27; XX-33 I 1.12 

5g;5K- 1-6; 11-24, 27, 31, 37,.- 1-15 

XXI-43, 51, 59, 67, 75 i XV 18; XXIMS, 

IV-l : 19, 20. 24 


g¬´T- 1-14; XX-41 

VI-8, 11,13 
giTJiMr- VI -21 
gw^r^- VI-8 
gvT%¬´r- XXVI-48 
g¬´t%%- Vl-8 
g¬´ftvr¬´T^- Vi-8 
gtr- 11-2^; XXI-25, 48 
g^- VI-39; 41 

XXI V-I, 3, 5, 

7, 13, 15 

Ml 

VI -44, 47 
sT^iirar?!- Xll-17 
VI-34, 45 

VI-2S, 29 
VI-S8, 30 
XIII-25 

1-12 

1-15 

¬´r 

IV-22, 23 

11 

nit- XII- 16 
‚ÄôT¬´OT?r- III-l, 2, 3, 5 


11-24 

j 1-15 

: XIV-3 

j ^THsnf- 111-2; XX-59 
frH5iTfiT?r?T- lV-3 
^lT?T5n^I%q- XX\^I-26 
j ?img- lll-i, 2, 6 
j 1-8; XIV-28 

I mn litn)- Vl-14, 18 
{ 1-9 

j Vl-57, 65 

I 1-15 , 

i ^4:?5rfft?TliT- VI-26, 27 

111-14 

XXVl- 4 ^,^ , 
XXIII- 2C; 
i XXlV- 34 , 35, 38 
i XXlI-1 , 2 , 7 , 14 

XX-63 

: m?T- 11-21, 22, 28, 35, 37 
1 - 1 5 

I il-28 

jfiETf- 1-7; VII-9, VilM; 
i IX-5; Xl-4, 7; XlI-8; 



¬´ii0^ 

XV-IO; XVn-8; 14;! 

wi?:- I--8 

XXIV-24 ' 

^kis- 11-28 

XXIM 2 

r4 

XII' 18 

W¬ßT<?rST- 111-7, 8 

1-6 

lf5cr^f?5Tr-XXVin-6 

IV-1 , 7, 2i 

1-14 1 

1-12 j 

k'4?:- 1-9 

g%?T- IIM8 

ksT?:5K4:or- XII-is, 16 


k?i'i:4:ikr- XIIl-14 

1-1 2 

Wid- 11-26 

^f:%cT- 111-1 y 

5^gi%-l-l2 

w?r'?rr?rV- Vl-5. 6,13 

1-10 

VI - 4 4 

^^sr- VI-l; VlI-1,2, 6,7, 

XII 16 

21; VlII-20; IX-20; XII- 

XI]- 26 

26; XIV- 28 ; XV-18, 29; 

VI-22 

XVl-2, 3, 27; XX-14, 

‚Ä¢ 11- 

26, 30, 34,37;XXIII-10, 

‚ñÝ III 7, 8 

i 23;XXV-30; XXIV-31 

- 11-12 

1 ^if- XIV-23 

- VT-9 i 

; W-QT- III -18 

W%<^WV- VI -9 ' 

f 

-VI-8, 13 

VI-1, 3 

frw U-36 

1-7 

I-1‚Äô7 

f?:- III-6 

ii5t¬´r^- 1-‚Äô 

fk- xil -18 

VI -9 

VI-57, 63 

11-22 

1-12 

1-6; 11-24, 26, 27 

^41- II -1 

^tl-I-12 

f^n-I-lO;JII-l, 4, 6, 13. 

I-ll 

15; IV-3; XX-63 

(tt%)- I-^ 

!rVTi¬ªT^5y- IV-1 

11-21, 26 , 29 

^tott^XXV1II-1-4 



INDEX 


N. B. ‚Äî The Eoman and Arabic ninnerals o])posito fco eacli refer 
respectively to the Adhyaya to which it l^elotigs and bo tiio number 
of the Sloka therein. 


A 


ABANDONED. Chihi tol)0-by 
botli tlie parents XYI-2‚Äò1. 

ABDAlhVBALA I VO. 

ABiOlHATlON OF MIND. Death 
fkie to ‚Äî IV-J9. 

lUhii causes ‚Äî LY-9. 

The D.is.i of the 5tli house-lord 
when weak })roducos ‚Äî 'XX 17 

AlNDfUHJ TA‚ÄîAvastha 111 19. 

ABIE LTV. ‚Äî of a person, to bo 
at the lowest, middling or 
bii'Juast YL-lA. 

ABODJX The ‚Äî s of th(3 planets 
11- Id, Kh 

The ‚ñÝ s. ()f the signs I ‚Äî d. 

ABllOAl) IVj 1)0 constantly .liv- 
ing ‚Äî VL 07. 

d'ogii causii^g tlio n:itiv 0 to live 
- :\XY-9, 

AlhSJ'iNCJ^I ‚Äî from one's own 
Co entry XlX-17. 

‚Äî -from oiie‚Äôs I'esidence XlX-F). 

ABAENT, To be ‚Äú'in foieign 
places XX-19. 

To i )0 constantly ‚Äî from homo 
Yl-OT. 

ABUSE. To -others VITO. 

ACOIM^TANGE. ‚Äîof presents | 
XLX12. i 

ACOOMFITSflMENT. ‚Äîof one‚Äôs j 
desires XL‚Äô(-li. ! 

A term for tiie 11th house 1-15. j 

ACCOUNTANT. :\fatters relating i 
to a clever ‚Äî are denoted by i 
Mercury li ‚Äî 18, 

ACllAUA. A term for the lOth 
Hjuse 1-15. 

ACrIARYA. x\ name for the 9th 
House I'i4. 


ACID. Flavour denoted by Venus 
li-di. 

AC(M' ISITION. A term to signify 

the 1 1 th ] louse, f id. 

The Sun in good hous(_'S brings 
on‚Äî of wealth XIX-O. 

.ACTION it is Mercurv that 
i n f lun ic,es o no‚Äôs. ‚Äî X V i d . 

.\CTOh. To bean ‚Äî XYUT ‚Äî F 13. 
'To eirn in eney ns an -XV 11 IT 

.VC'kS. To do ci'uel ‚Äî 1 X-S. 

ACUTENESS, Toasiortain the ‚Äî 
of a person Il-L 

ADDICLTT). To bo‚Äî to other 
pL'Oi)ie‚Äôs wives. VI ()1;X\T1F3, 
11 , 12 . 

ADDICTION. Information re : ‚Äî 
to man v maidens 11 T) 

ADDliESS T'(o be aifable in ‚Äî ‚Ä¢ 

VI -9. , 

ADilAlIA - Signs 1 8. 

ADllAM ‚Äî Docarrites HUM. 

ADIFAM A.‚Äî Yoga VM 1. 

.\DI1ANA. Tiine of ‚Äî sidcrod 
bv some as Eagna of Irirtli 
XlII-^J 

ADllANA DAS A. XX 11‚Äî 18. 

ADHANA EAGNA. Birth may 
hairpen when the Siui traffisits 
the 3rd Rasi from the ‚Äî or a 
Rasi trine to ‚Äî XII 3 I . 

Flti‚Äôuct of henefics occupying ‚Äôor 
aspecti‚Äông the ‚Äî .Xfi-3'i. 

ADHANA NAKSHATRA. XXVI- 
28. 

ADHl. A term to denote the 8th 
( house 1,-14. 
i ADHI YOGA VB42, 43. 



2 

ADHO MUKHA RASIS 


INDEX 


ALI 


ADnO ‚ñÝ MUKHA BASIS 1-8 ; I 
XlV-27. ‚Ä¢ 

ADIIVAN. A dGsiijnatiori for the i 
7tih iiouso 1-13 ; 

ADHYAYA8 XXVIll - 1-1 
ADITYADVir. A tenri applied | 
to liahu J I-2G. 

ADORl^iyCIXNGE. Plaocts in - . 
1113. 

ADOPTED. A^oga for a child to 
be ‚Äî by another XVl-tlG. ‚ñÝ 

ADOPTION. Predictions with i 
reference to the Aloori and the ! 
Irigna at the time of -of a son 
Xa-34. 

To have a son by ‚ÄîXII -3. 

ADOIiATION.-of the Biahmiiis, 
elders and relations XX 1-7. 

‚Äî of Gods, Brahmins and re- ' 
vered seniors. XXI 53. i 

Doing proper‚Äî s for averting 
evil. XXVMl). 

ADOUN'MPNT. XXD33. 
ADVANGBi) .AGE. ITanets are 
said to he in ‚Äî . II L-3. 

ADV ANGFiMBNT. ‚Äî of any house i 
or Biiava. XV- l8. 

ADVERSE. To be-.VHl-S. ! 

ADVERSITY. It i.s Saturn tiuit 
settles a jierson's XV-IG. 
AFiOMil.E. To ho-. XVl-5. 

To 1)0 ‚Äî in address VI -3. 

T\) 1).; -ill one‚Äôs speech. V.i-12 
AFFliiuF^'ID. I^hfect when the 
7th and Stli houses are ‚Äî .X-7. 

A person to be ‚Äî el ten and -often ! 

XVl-i. i 

AFFLUENGE. Bhuktis of pla- ; 
nets related to a Yogakaraka , 
will produce good effects lead- : 
ing to ‚Äî . XX'. T*. 1 

It. IS the IMoon that determines 
one‚Äôs ‚Äî . X\^'I5. ‚Ä¢ ; 

APTiAlD. A planet is ‚Äî when he > 
is in Ills depression. IX-19. 
AGAMA V-G. 

AGATE Ll-23. ; 

AGE. Saturn is ripe with old^ ‚Äî ‚ñÝ ! 


IM4. 

x\GHA. A name for the 6th house 
1-13 . 

AGNIMANDYA. XIV-3. 
AGREEABEE. Moon in the 7th 
house will make the person 
horn ‚Äî ^to look at. YIII-6. 

AGRtGaLTQRATi I M P L E- 
M ENTS, lla ‚Äî ‚Äòone ought to 
guess thro‚Äô Saturn. lL-7. 
AGRICaLTaRAL 0 P E R A- 
T I O N S. 

Break of‚ÄîXXMl. 

Loss in~XX[-37, 74. 

To he engaged in ‚Äî XXI-19. 

AGRICULTURE. Augmentation 
of wealth by ‚Äî -.XIX-26. 

Income through ‚Äî V'3. 

Increase in ‚Äî .XXI-4B. 

Increase of wealth through ‚Äî ¬ª 
XXI-5i. 

To be engaged in‚Äî IX-2; XX[-4 
To devote oneself to ‚Äî VI II- 24 
'Co have loss in ‚Äî -XtX 13. 

To have profit in ‚Äî XXI-45. 

To have success in ‚Äî XX-5. 

'To puruse ‚Äî Vl-40. 

.Mil. Grain belonging to -11-28. 
Precious stone of ‚Äî -11-29. 

Same as Raliu. 

Sex of‚Äî 11-27. 

Stage of life typified by ‚Äî 11-32. 
The kind of tree generated by ‚Äî 
U-3 7. 

The place belonging to ‚Äî ^or Rahu 
il-lG. 

AID-DE-CAMP. Y-7. 

A IN DAY A. 1-8. 

AIR. I [-27. 

-MR.WATA. Same as Iravata. 
111-7, 9. 

AJ.V. Name for j\re8ha. 1-7, 8. 

AT A. Name for Brahman. lI-'27. 
A-l E E V A . Ad h y a Y a V . 

AJI -BatAe. I-I3 ' 

AJNA Term indicating the 10 th 
house. 

ALL 1-7. 



AT.OOFNEsS 


INDEX 


3 

APOKLIMA 


ALOOFNESS To be distinguished 
by‚ÄîXXV-lO. 

ALPAYURYOGA. XIIM^. 

ALFA YUS. Xin-6. 14. 
AMALAYOGA. VM2, 11). 20. 
A:\IAVASYA. XIM5. 

AM BA. Name for Goddess l^arvaii 
11-27. 

A^IBARA. Country signified by 
Ihihu. 11-28. 

AMBU ‚Äú 2.‚Äô0i‚Äôm to denote the 1th 
house. 1-12. 

AMIABLIL To bo endowed with 
‚Äî manners VL-G. 

To be exceedingly ‚Äî VL30. 

To be very ‚Äî Yill-ir). 

To sport witli a damsel of a very 
‚Äî disposition. VI-2‚Äòl. 

AMOROUS TOPICS. To bo versed 
in ‚Äî .XVT-G. 

AMSA. XV-8: XV1-17,.31, 32: 
XVfl-See Navamsa: XX-SG, o7. 

AMSA PJJAL.A. XVIIMG. 
AMSAYURDAYA. XXI 1-28. 
AMSAYURDAYA DASA, XXII- 
17. 18. 

ANAEMIA, Death through ‚Äî 

XIV-14. 

Mercury brings on ‚Äî XlA"-5. 
‚Ä¢Venus signifies ‚Äî XIV-7. 
ANATUIA YOGA. VI-5, G. 

ANGER. To become son-less duo 
to t}M3 ‚Äî ^of the mother XIl-20. 
Satui n is a pei'Lsohificatlon of ‚Äî 
[[-14. 

.\NGMR1, A designation for the 
12th house. 1-IG. 

ANGRY. To he‚Äî . VJG-1 
To 1)0 a little hit‚Äî. XXV-12. 

To he ‚Äî at trifles, JX-5. j 

ANGRY TEMPER. To he of an i 
XVIIl-14, I 

ANGRY TEAIPIRUMENT. To he j 
of an‚Äî. Vl-41. I 

ANGUISH. Sun promotes mental | 
‚Äî . XIX-5. i 

ANIMAL. XII-19. I 


i ANIMAT. KIND. XlV-27. 

' AKI MAI, SIGNS M). 

ANKUSA. To havc -Rekha. 
Vl-3. 

ANN.'VPANA. .Vti appellation for 
the 2nd house. l-U). 

, ANNlIIlIiATION Conditions 
under which a Bluiva suffers 
. XV-5. G 

i ANNOYANCE, To bo subjected 
‚Äô to oonsiant and intense--. 

: XVI-E); XXl-17. 

: ANOREXIA. Caused thro‚Äô ilio 
i Moon XlN-3. 

. Death due to--. XIV-I7. ^ 

I AN3\\RA. XXI- 1. 84 
' ANTAKAN'rARA. XXL84. 

: ANTARDASA. XX-41; XXI-2. 
7; XXVl ll 1-E 

ANTELOPE. 11 17. 

ANTHILL. .11 lb. 

ANTHYA. I- lb. 

ANTHYAJA. IL 2L 

ANU.IANMA N AKSHATRA 
XXV 1-22 

ANHPACliAY.\ XLil, 

ANUS. To sulfci' ft'oni a disoase 
in the - , Vin-25: XXVEIO. 

To suiter jiain in the Vi-bl. 

3‚Äôrouldc‚Äòin tlic ‚Äî . XXl 1 L 

ANXIETY, --caused by the 
separation or doiniso of j)orents 
XlX-2b. 

To be free from ‚Äî ios XVI 21. 

To have fear and ‚Äî XXVL2G. 

I'o suffer from ‚Äî . XXl-13. 
ANYAKARNA. A term for the 
1 Itb house. 1-15. 

A P ACM AY A. XIM2: XXOT-IO. 
APAHARA. XX-22, 55; XXM. 

5,1G, 28; XXII. 4. 13; XXV1;41] 
APASAVYA. XXil-l, 2, 7, 14. 
APAVADA. I-J4, 

APOKIilMA. ‚Äî liouses 1-18, 

JLmefics and the lord of the 
Jiiigna posited in ‚Äî liousos make 
the lifd short, XIII'15. 



4 

APOKLIMA. 


INDEX 


ABUNiA 


Yarishta Yoga is formed when 
the Moon occupies an ‚Äî house 
counted from the Sun. IY-14. 
APOKLIMA BALA. lY-5, 
APPAREL, Articles of ‚Äî for the 
several planets. 11-30, 
APPEARANCE, A person‚Äôs- 
will be like hat of the strongest 
planet. XYLl. 

Mars has a youthful ‚Äî . II 10. 
Matters relating to a female‚Äôs‚Äî. 
XM. 

Predictions to ho declared with 
reference to the ‚Äî of tlie deca- 
nates-occupied by the planets 
o^vning the Oth or the 5th; 
XIY'28. 

3 'o he beau t i f ii I i n ~ . 1 11' 1 7 . 

To be brilliant in ‚Äî . 1II-I2. 

To conjecture all about the‚Äî -of 
one‚Äôs father. XV'22, 

To have a brilliant ‚Äî . XX- 2. 

To have a husband bright in ‚Äî . 
XI-3. 

APPENDAGES To ho endowed 
with princely ‚Äî 1 1 1-9. 
AYPANDIOrClS. XIV- 4, G. 
AITM'ITLTE. Death due to want 
of‚Äî. XIY-19. 

APPLAUSE. To have fame 
thi'omdi the‚Äî of the learned. 

XLvU). 

APPOiNTl^ENT. Loss ofpne‚Äôs‚Äî 
XXI*(8. 

APPRECIATION. To get‚Äî from 
a big wealthy lord. XXI-74. 
APTI-An ejQpression to denote 
the lith house. 1-15. 

AQUATIC ANIMAL. TM7. 

ARA, Another name for Mars, I- 
6;TL26, 28. 

ARDRA. Effect of females born 
tinder the astewism ‚Äî . XI -9. 
The formulas for the four Padau 
of‚Äî. XXII-?. 

ARDHAPRAHARA. XX,V-1, 3, 

20 . 21 . 


ARGUMENT.. To be impartial in 
one‚Äôs ‚Äî lX-7. 

ARIES. Same as Mesha, 

AREA, 11-18, 21, 24, 27, 28. 32. 
ARKAJA. 1-6; 11-21, 37, 

ARKI. 11-28. 

ARMS, 1-13. 

To have drooping ‚Äî ‚Ä¢ IX-6. 
ARMED. Ketu is ‚Äî 11-34. 

ARMOUR. BEARER, Mercury 
represents matters relating to 
an--. 11-18. 

ARMED DECANATJ‚ÄôS. III-13. 
ARMPIT. To have marks on tlie 
‚Äî II 32. 

AR]\1Y, A flesignation for the 3rd 
house. I II, 

Commanding an ‚Äî . II-3. 

' To he a leader of an‚Äî .YI'2. 

To become the head of an ‚Äî 
XYIIL8. 

I To be endowed with a huge ‚Äî 
XX 25. 

To expect a leadership in an ‚Äî 
XX-4. 

1 To own a vast ‚Äî .YI[-15. 

AROHINI DASA. XX-56. 

ARROGANT. To be‚Äî VI- 2. 

50: IX-5. 

ARROGANT FELLOW. To be an 
‚Äî XVI 11-10. 

ARTICLES. To get back even lost 
‚Äî .IX-15. 

ARTERIES. Saturn has a lall 
boby full of ‚Äî and veins, 11- 
14. 

ARTISAN. Matters relating to 
an ‚Äî are represented by IMer- 
cury. 11-18. 

To be a bad ‚Äî - VI-41. 

ARTS. A Woman to be skilled in 
the‚Äî XI-7. 

To know something of the ‚Äî . 

XVl-6. 

ARUCHI. XIT-3. 

ARUNA. Another name for tho 
Sun.. 11-37. 



INDEX 


ARYA VAMSA 


i> 

ASPECT 


ARYA VAMSA. Name for the 
9th house. 1-14. 

ARYA VARTA. XIV-2(). 
ASCENDANT. I-IO; XD2;XV‚Äú21. 
ASCITES. XIV-14, 19. 
ASCETIC. XXVII-2. 3. 4, 5. 8. 
ASCETIC YOGA. XXVII-7; 
XXVIIM, 4. 

ASCETICISM. XXVn-3. 4. 
ASHES. To besmear oneself 
with sacred ‚Äî ‚Ä¢- VL-29. 
ASHTAKAVARGA. s. XXVIII- 
1-4. 

‚Äî lias been very highly sjioken 
of by great sages. XXlII-1. 

‚Äî s of the Syn, Aloon, Mars, 
Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and 
Saturn. XXill 3, 9. 

‚Äî system is fle(;lared effective in 
all undertakings, XXIIE36. 
Ayus to be predicted through ‚Äî . 
XIII-25. 

Benefic dots exeeding 28 in the 
Sarva ‚Äî . produce good, while 
those below that figure give 
bad effects. XXIII-21. 
Computation of Dasa periods by 
the ‚Äîprocess is the best. 
XXIIi-33. 

Effects due to ‚Äî have been briefly 
described. XXIII-44. 

Effect of bhavas containing a 
number of benefic dots in the 
‚Äî of the lord of the Lagna will 
he happy. XV-28. 

Effect of the arrival of a planet 
in a house containing the 
largest number of benefic dots 
(in the planet‚Äôs Ashbakavarga). 
XXni-14, 15. 

Effects of the transit of a planet 
in the several Rasis containing 
0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 bene- 
fic dots in the planet's ‚Äî ‚Ä¢. 
XXllMl. 

Effects to 1)6 ascertained from 
the Moon‚Äôs‚Äî . XXlV-7. 

Effects to be culled from the 
Sun's‚Äî XXlV-5, 6. 

Effects to be divined from the- ‚Äî 


of J*upiter. XXIV-IO, 11* 
Effects to be guessed from the 
‚Äî 3 of jMars aurl IVIercury. 
XXIV-9. 

Effects to 1)0 inferred from the 
‚Äîof Venus. XXlV-12. 

Planets passing through Rasis 
containing more l)enofic dots in 
. the ‚Äî produce good effects 
always. XXYI-41. 

Prastara ‚Äî , explained. XX III- 
17. 

Relation betwe^en tlie benefic 
dots in an ‚Äî and the owners of 
the 8 divisions of each of the 
12 Rasis XXIll-lH, 19. 
j Saturn‚Äôs ‚Äî will disclose the time 
1 of one‚Äôs demise, diuigor, Ayus, 
j etc. XXiV-13, 14. 15. 

I The destruction of a bhava will 
I happen during the Dasa periods 
! of planets which occupy houses 
j where theio are no benefic dots 
in the bhava-lord‚Äôs ‚Äî . XV-12. 
The Janma Rasi of the wife will 
he that which contains the 
largest number of benefic dots 
in the Moon‚Äôs ‚Äî table of the 
husband. X-1 1. 

The malefic places in the several 
‚Äî8. XXIIMO. 

The Sarva XX 111-20. 

Time of fruition of a ])articular 
benefic dot in any bhava in 
an‚Äî. XXIH-IG. " 

When planets transit Rasis con- 
taining loss number of benefic 
dots in the ‚Äî ‚ñÝ, one ought to 
perform Shantis and other rites, 
etc. XXV 1-4 9. 

I ASHTAMl. XII- 17. 

I ASITA. Another name for Saturn. 
' 11-28. 

I ASLESHA. Effect of birth under 
I the star‚Äî. XI-9; XIII-8. 

} ASPADA. I-I5. 

I ASPECT. Effect of a birth where 
! the Moon is in Moola and the 
lAgna hajs no benefic associa- 
1 tion or ‚Äî XIII-8. 



ASPECT 


INDEX 


ASUBHA VESI 


Effect of bliavas ‚Äî ed by malefica j 

or inimical planets. XV- 5. ! 

Ejffect of bhavas free from ‚Äî of , 
inalefics. XV-i. 

1 iffect of bhavas having no bono- 
iic-.XV-;E 

Effect of tho 5th house being ‚Äî ‚Ä¢ 
ed by malefics and devoid of tlie 

- -of ..benefics. XI [-2. 

IXfectj of tiie bbh Ikjcso havdng tlie' 

‚Äî of a benefic. Xll-j . 

Id'l'ec-t of tho 5th house or its lord 
being asj)octed ‚Äôey male planets. 
Xil-lh 

Effect of tho lord of tho Uh house 
and the Moon occupying a 
*^1 El Cittluiiia and dovoic jf bone- 
iie‚Äî . XV(-10. 

Effect ol tho ]\ioun in a cloGiinato 
owned hy Saturn a.nr- ‚Äî td by 
cjeirs a!id Saturn. XXVH-?. 

I'fh.'ct of tlie IMoonin tho several 
signs, and Navanisjis and Dwa- 
(‚Äôceennsas being ‚Äî ed by IMars 
cmi other xdaiiets. XViE-b, 7, 
S, b, 10, il, 12, Id, 14. 15, 10. 

EldVcfi of ]ilanets owning the dud, 
7th and idth ]>eing ‚Äî ed Ijy 
lurlter and occupying Trikoiia 
of .Kendra positions. X-10. 

.Effect of the 2nd and 7t!i bouses 
ed l)y malefics, X-'i . 

Efi'v'ct of Venus having tlie ‚Äî of 
MafsS or Saturn. X-4. 

If f)f the ii-i-gna sliould 

‚Äî t lie Mo 0 n w i le n s he i s w eiik , 
tlie native will hecoimi a mis-ii ‚Ä¢ 

1 J do d e v o u t XX V 1 1 -( > . 

Lord of the Kasi occaipied by tb ;‚Ä¢ 
5''0en having no ‚Äî of cfcbrt 
planets on it except tbti ? t 
Sateini makes the native 
lisertic. XXVn 4. 

Lvud of the 7th being ‚Äî ed by 
malefics and tlie 7th bouse asso- 
ciated or ‚Äî (3d by malefics will 
majm the native lose a wife. 
,X'i5. 

Pliuiebary ‚Äî 8.11-23. ,i 

Strength of‚Äî . IV-2 |r. 


The planet ‚Äî ing the 8th house 
will cause misery to the native. 
XX-55. 

The 7th house ‚Äî most effective. 
lV-9. 

Time when the fruition of the 
eflecb of ‚Äî may be expected. XX- 
21 . 

ASS. 11-20; XXII-3E 
: ASSEMBLY, -‚Äîgoverned by 
Mercury. II- 1.5. 

To be clever in addi‚Äôessing an ‚Äî ‚Ä¢. 
j VI 2. 

; To become a head of an ‚Äî >. 
i XVIIl-4. 

To behave stupidly in a public 
i ‚Äî . XX-I5. ‚Ä¢ 

! To win the approbation of the 
audience in the ‚Äî XX-3. 
ASSOCIATES. To be in the 
midst of bad ‚Äî . VI- 59. 

ASSOCIATION. A female‚Äôs-to lie 
lU‚Äôoclicted from tho 4tli houseXl-1. 
BliavciS free from ‚Äî of malefics. 
XV-i. 

Effect of ‚Äî with other planets. 
XX-21. 

To live amidst good ‚Äî s. XVI-3. 
ASTA. 1-13. 

ASTANGATA. XXII-20. 
ASTEUIS?\L Effect of females 
born under certain ‚Äî s. Xl-9. 

asteeisms. xn-30; xvn-8, 

20; XXlV-2, 3. 7; XXVl-26. 
27, 28, 29, 35-41. 

: asthma. XlV-17. 

ASTTiA ‚Äî A name for the 6th' 
house, i-13. 

; ‚ÄîYoga. VI- 44, 50. 

' ASTEINGENT. 11-31. 

I ASTBOLOGER. 11-19; XVlII-8. 

; ASTROLOGY. V-5. 

I ASU. A designation for the 5th 
lionse. 1-12 
I ASUBIIA. VM3. 
j Dasa of an ‚Äî planet. XX-41. 
i ASUBHA MALA.‚Äî Yoga VI-2E 
i ASUBHAM ALIKA. Yoga VI-23. 

1 ASUBHA VASI.-~Yoga VI-10. 

^ ASUBHA VESI.‚Äî Yoga VMO. ‚Äò 



INDEX 


ASUBHOBHAYACHARI 


7 

AY as 


ASUBHOBHAYACHARI-Yoga 

YMO. 

ASUGHJ. A term to denote the 
8th house. 1-14. 

ASUEA YOGA. VI-44. 52. 
ASURAMATYA. A name for 
Venus. 11-29- 
ASWAGATl. XXII-12. 
ASWATTHA TREE. IMG; XFD 
21 . 

ASWIN. Name for ]>hanus. T-B. 
ASWINI. Vn-8 ; XXIL J, 5, 7. 
11; XXTV-13. 

ASYA. An appellation for the 
2nd house. 1‚Äú10. 

ATHEIST, to be ari~. VI-G2. 
ATIBHEETA. 111-19. 

ATAIAN. A name to denote the 
5th house. 1-12. 

ATRl. 1-2- 

ATTACHMENT. ‚Äîto one‚Äôs duty. 
XIX'6. 

‚Äî to females. 11-3. 

ATTEMPT. Suecoss in all one‚Äôs 
‚Äîs. IX-16. 

To fail in one‚Äôs‚Äî s. XXVMG. 
ATTENDANT. To be waited upon 
by faithful ‚Äî s. VI- 7. 

To have ‚Äî s. XIX- 22. 

IM live with‚Äî s. VIII-1 1. 
AUDIENCE. To cam the appro- 
bation of the ‚Äî in an as^aunidv. 
XN-3. 

AUDISESHA. 11-27. 
AUSPICIOUS. Condition of the 
lord of the 8tli honse proving 
. ‚Äî . XX-41. 

Lord of a Trikona posited in a 
Kendra or the lord of a Iven- 
dra in a Trikona will prove 
to-tlie native, XX-42. 

The time that must he declai'ed 
as very -to the native. XfIU20. 
Time when all things ‚Äî should be 
got done. XXIli-22; XXIV-40. 

Time when anything‚Äî my hap- 
pen. XXIV- 43. 

Signs. 1^9. 

Time when Film‚Äôs Dasa period 


will be fully‚Äî. XIX-15. 

To be always in tlie midst of 
‚Äî ceremonies. Yl~55, 

To travel on an ‚Äî undertaking 
XXVM9. 

AUTHORITY. To attain high‚Äî. 
VlIl-30. 

To fear danger from tlie ‚Äî ies. 
XXI-5. 

To hifve ‚Äî conferred on oneself. 
VI-34. 

AVA.INA. A name for the Gth 
lionse. I-13.¬ª 

AVANTI. 11-28. 

AVARICIOUS. To bo . XVlIl-Ud. 
AVAROHINI. ‚Äî Dasa. XX-5Gr 
AVASTTHAS. Jlda and other ‚Äî ‚Ä¢, 
III-:], 10. 

Tlie ten‚Äî. I II- 1 <8, 19, 20. 
AVAYOOA. Vl-57, 58. 

AY A. .V term to denote the 1 1 th 
house. 1-15. 

AVAN A. 11-2 1. 

AYANAIUI.A. lV -1,2. 
AYUDILV DRIiKKANAS. IIIU 
AYURDAYA. XXii-l8. 

, ‚Äî and the regulation of the order 
! of Dasas. XX! 1-27. 

\ Conditions when the Amsa, 

‚Äô ihmia and Nuisargika systems 
of ‚Äî hsA‚ÄôO to 1)6 adopted. XXII 
-28. ‚Äô 

Jeevasarma- sysf.ein. XXn-25. 
liossin ‚Äî . XXI 1-1 9. 

Pi nda- - y s ucrn . X i . ‚Ä¢ 

Itul<^ of Satyacharya when 
sever;'..! mi i lti})licat ion sor 
reuuctiofis crej) U]) in com- 
puting ‚Äî . XXIi-2(k 

'Jajo method of cumiiiiting the ‚Äî 
when the li igna, tlie Sim and 
the 51oon are of equal 
st ron gt 1 1 . X X 1 i -2 9 . ‚Ä¢ 

A YUS. A term to denote the 
St) i house. 1-14. 

Determining the ‚Äî (lo?,-gevity or 
otherwise) is the t:rst thing 
to l)c > \lone Nvhon a son is 
born. rIiJl-1. 



8 

AYUS 


INDEX 


BATTLE 


How to obtain the total-in years | 
of the native through the Ashta- i 
kavarga of Saturn. XXIV-15. 

The x^ornonH for whom this ‚Äî 
has been declared by wise men. 
XXII 32. 

B 

BACK. The stars dwebing on 
the ‚Äî of the native. XXVI 36, 
39. 40. 

To have marks op tlie ‚Äî . 11-32. 

To have marks or moles on the 
IX-2. 

J^>ACK-BLTBR. To he a-. XVI 
- 6 . 

BACK-BITING. To bo‚Äî. VIII 

-9. 

BAD GRAINS. To earn through 
‚Äî . V-8. 

BAD LIBB. To lead a‚Äî. XX‚Äî 
19. 

1;AD people. I'o be depend- 
ent on ‚Äî . VI 11-8. 

I'.ADWAYS. To end one‚Äôs life 
by following . XXV-2G. 

To resort to VI -23. 

BAD WOMEN. To seek the com- 
pany of ‚Äî . VI 1 1-31. 

BAD WORDS. To liear‚Äî . XXI 
-30. 66. 

To utter XIV -6. 

BADLY DISPOSED. To be-‚Äî. 
XX>Tij^. 

JL\DLy PLACED. IMfect of the 
lord of the liagnaor that of the 
second liouse being ‚Äî . XX 
-15. 

Planets when 11-36. 
BAHIRBHA. E9. 

BALA. -Avasttha. Hl-iO. 

BALAGR.\HAS. ‚Äî to be expect- 
ed through the Moon. XIV 
-3. 

Clvild meets witli destruction, 
being seiaed by ‚Äî . XIll-3, 

BALAPTNDASAMASTTHA. lY- 
22, 23. 


The several agencies through* 
which one‚Äôs ‚Äî has to be pre- 
dicted. XIII ‚Äî 25. 

To get the rectified‚Äî contri- 
buted by the planets, XXIV- 
32. 


BAL.ARISHTA. Xiri-6. 

BAN Dll A. A designation for the 
12th liouse. I-I6. 

The five kinds of ‚Äî s or con- 
nections recognised between 
two planets. XV-30. 

BANDITU. A designation for the 
Ith house. I-ll. 

BANISHMENT. To suffer‚Äî from 
one‚Äôs country. XIX-25. 

BARBER. To be a‚Ñ¢. XVIII-4, 8. 

BARDS. To bo praised by ‚Äî and 
minstrels. VI 38. 

BARKS. To be a dealer in ‚Äî . 
XVIID3. 

BARREN. A woman to become 
XI-5. 7. 

BARRENNESS. Remedies to 
ward off the ‚Äî threatening a 
family. XTI- 16-18. 

Yoga leading to ‚Äî . XII-7. 

BARREN WIFE. To have a‚Äî. 
VI-59. 

BASE. One of the ten Avastthas 
of a planet. 111-19. 

To e.xpect iuSult from ‚Äî people. 
XIX -14. 

BASE AVOCATIONS. To resort 
to--. V-8. 

BASE WAYS. To be given to--. 
VI-7. 

BASE WOMEN. To be in the 
company of low and ‚Äî . XXV-16 

BATH. A holy ‚Äî in Rameswaram 
to attain progeny. XIl-24. 

BATHING PLACES. To visit‚Äî. 
XXVlI-5. 

BATTliE. A name to denot the 
Gth house. 1-13. 



BATTLE 


INDEX 


9 

BENEFIC PLANET 


Anything regarding ‚Äî should bd 
ascertained through Mars. 11-3- 

Defeat in‚Äî. XXI-27. ‚ñÝ 

Income by fighting in-‚Äú s. V-4. i 

BATTLE FIELD. Abode of Mars 
is a‚Äî 11-15. 

BEADS, ‚Äîor benefic dots in an 
Ashtaka varga. XXIII-2. 

BEARING. A woman to be 
masculine in her ‚Äî . XI-2. | 

BEAST. ‚Äî3, appropriate to each i 
of the planets. 11-17-20. ‚Ä¢ ! 

The Yoga under which a birth 
will be that of a‚Äî. XIV-28. 

Trouble from tire and ‚Äî a. 
XIX-18. I 

BEATITUDE. I-l ; II-5. 

BEAUTIFUL. A woman to be‚Äî. 
XI.5. 

To be ‚Äîin appearance III-17. 

To have a ‚Äî body. VI-25 ; 

VIIM7. 

To have‚Äî limbs VI-9. 

BEAUTY. It is the Moon that 
determines bodily health and ‚Äî > 
11-2. 

Matters relating to a woman‚Äôs 
‚Äî should be determined from I 
the Lagna. XI- 1. 

To have‚Äî. XXV-13. 1 

BED., ‚Äî denoted by the 12th | 
house. 1-16. 

To accluiro new ‚Äî . XX-8; XXI- 29 

To have good ‚Äî ‚ñÝ. XVI-13. 

BED-BOOM. One of the places of 
Venus. 11-16. 

BEGGAR. To be a‚Äî. XXV17. 

BEHAR. The country pertaining I 
to Mars. XIV-26 

BEHAVIOUR. It is through 
Jupiter that information about 
one‚Äôs ‚Äî -should be sought for. 
II-5. 

To be emotional in one's‚Äî. 
VI-16. 

To be of bad VI-58. 

To be rough in one‚Äôs ‚Äî . VI-50. 

To be wicked in one‚Äôs‚Äî. XX-19. 

BELL-METAL. Anything about 


‚Äî should be determined through 
the Moon. II-2. 

‚Äî is the substance ascril>ed to 
the Moon. 11-30. 

BELLY. A name for the 5th 
house 1-12. 

Disease affecting the ‚Äî . XXT-7G. 
Disease in the‚Äî. XX I- 22 i 
‚Ä¢ XXVI-13. 

The astSrisms distributed over 
the ‚Äî during the transits of tiio 
planets. XXVI-38. 39, 40. 

To suffer from pain in the ‚Äî 
XXI 9, 52. 

Trouble in the ‚Äî . XXI-63. 
BELLY ACHE. Mars in the 5th 
house will make the native 
suffer from‚Ñ¢. XIV-10. 

Saturn brings on‚Äî. XtV'8. 

To suffer from ‚Äî VIII 6, 26. 
BELOVED. To enjoy all plea- 
sures in the company of 
one‚Äôs-. XX-B. 

To suffer separation from one‚Äôs 
‚Äî . VIII-26 ; XXH8. 
BENEFACTOR. To be a‚Äî. VI-40 
BENEFIC. VII-ll, 12, 13, IG, 
X-6, 7, 10; XI-1. 2. 3, 5, 10; 

XII- 1, 2, 32 ; XIV-2I, 22; XV- 
18, 19 ; XVI-2; 5, 8, 10, 17, 
20,23. 25, 27, 28; XlX-16, 

XX- 27, 30, 53, 59 ; XXIL21 ; 
XXIII-14, 24; XXVl-27, 28, 
30; XXVII-1, 8. 

BENEFIC ASPECT. XIl-l, 9. 

BENEFIC DOTS. XV- 1 2, 28; 
XXIII-11, 12, 14, 15, 16. 18, 

I 22 ; XXIV-L7, 9, 10. 11, 12, 
13, 14. 15, 16, 18. 19. 20. 21. 
22. 34, 35, 37, 38, 40; XXVI-41. 

BENEFICENT. The conditions 
under which a Bhava will be 
thoroughly ‚Äî . XV-2. 
BENEFICENT ACTS. To do‚Äî. 

XXI- 46. ^ 

BENEFIC POSITION. XXIII-10 
BENEFIC PLANET, XIH. 3 ; 

XIII- 8. J2a 15, 20; XV‚Äî 2, 3¬ª 
4, 5, 7, 10 ; XXlV-43. 



INDEX 


10 

BENEFIT 


BIPED SIGNS 


JIENBPIT. To do acts causing 
eternal ‚Äî . Vl-Sd. 

To got eternal ~s. through one‚Äôs 
spiritual preceptor. XIX-24. 

Hl lNBVOLENT. To be-. V1-3G. 
BENGAL GBAISI. Jupiter‚Äôs grain 
is'-. 11-28. 

BEST QUALITIES. To possess 
the-. 

BlIADRAYOGA. VI-l, 2. 
BUACIINEYA. A term to donoto 
the 4th house. 1-1 J . 

BMAGYA. A name for tlie !)th 
house. 1-14. 

Blt.VGYA YOGA. VI‚Äî 11,53. 
BIIANU. Name for the Sun. 
11-31. 

BilABANl. XXII-G, 7. 
BFIABG.WA ‚Äî Name f.or Venus. 
1.1-24, 25. 

BllARYA -A designation for the 
7th house. 1-13. 

BMASANDIII 1-4. 

.BflASKARA. A name for the 
Sun. l[-,30. 

BIIASKARI. Name of Saturn. 
11-14. 

B1I.\SVAT. A uaino for the Sun. 
11-32. 

BII.VUMA. Name for Mars. 1-6 ; 

11-18, 21, 23, 25, 2G, 35, 37. 
BHAVA. 1-15 ; XV-i, 3, 4, 5. G, 
8. 9. 11, 12, 14, 17, 20. 25, 
2G, 27, 28; XVIM ; XX-1, 
21. 29, 34. 35, 43, 58, 02; 
XXV-6; XXVm-l, 4. 

EHAVA B.U.A. lV-24. 
BlIAVAMSA. Vrif-35; XX11'2'¬ª 
BHAVA S.INDHI. XV-13, 14; 
XXIl-27. 

BHAVISHYATJNANA. A name 
^to denete, the 5th house. 1-12. 
BHEET.A. One of the ten Avast- 
tlias of a planet. 111-19. 
BHEETI. A name to signify the 


BHRIGD- A name for Venus. 
11-13, 16, 19. 28. 

BfIRIGUJA. A name for Venus. 
11-6,21, 26. 

BHRTTYA. V-1. 

BHUKTI. A term to denote the 
2nd house. I-IO. 

Death may happen "when the 
lYisa and‚Äî -at the time is un- 
toward. XIIl-18. 

XX-23, 28, 37, 38, 40, 42, 43, 

‚ñÝ44, 48, 49, 53,54; XXl-1,2,3, 
4, 6,8, 9,10, 11, 12,13,1.4, 15. 
17,18,20,22, 24,27, 29, 30, .33, 
34, 35, 36, 39, 40, 41. 44, 47, 48, 
i 52, 53, 56, 57, 60, 62, 63, 64, 
i (15, 67, 69, 70, 72, 74, 75, 78, 

1 79,80.81,83, 84 ; XXII-13; 

! XXVI-49; XXVI 11. 1-4. 

I BHUKTINATHA. XX-29. 

I BIIU.MI SUTA. A name for Mars. 
1 n-31. 

I BIIUPATANA. Some say that 
j fcho Lagna afc birth of a child is 
j the time of its~~. XIIT*2. 

I l^lIUSHA. A term to denote the 
i 4th house. 1-12. 

' BUjE. Mercury is a mixture of 
the 3 humours, wind, ‚Äî and 
phlegm. II-ll. 

Tlie Sun causes death through ‚Äî 
XIV-U. 

The Sun causes fever dominated 
by excited ‚Äî . XIV-2, 

To suffer diseases arising from a 
morbid state of ‚Äî and blood. 
XIX-20. 

To suffer diseases arising 
from‚Äî. XXM3, 20. 21. 

To suffer diseases due to wind 
and-. XXL32, 77, S2 

To suffer pain owing to excess 
of‚Äî. XXI-29. 

To suffer trouble through flow 
of blood and‚Äî. XXI-78. 

BILIOUS. Mars is ‚Äî and cruel in 

- -JL-^ ‚Äî TT 1 A 



INDEX 11 


BIRD 

DIED. The particular ‚Äî ^s. denot- 
ed by the several planets. 

17, 20. 

The Yoga under wliich the 
previous birth of a person will 
be that of a-^. XIV-28. 

BIED DECAN ATES. 11143. 
EIETH. ‚Äî in a Lagna trine to the 
Adliana Tjagna. XII-3i. 

‚Äî of a daughter. XXI-67. 

of a son to one‚Äôs family, XX- 
6; XXI-79. 

‚Äî of a very good son XX [-72, 74. 
Demise of the father @f a child 
soon after ‚Äî . XVI-22. 

Effect of ‚Äîat the extreme and of 
a Easi, a Gandantha, at the 
junction of any of the four 
corners identical with the con- 
junction or aspect by a malefic i 
or when the Moon is in the i 
fateful degree in any sign, j 
XIII-9. ! 

Past and future ‚Äî s. XIY'27, 29. 
Time when the‚Äî of a cliild may 
take place. XII-31, 33. 

BITTEE. 11-31. 

BLACK. Eahu is ‚Äî in colour. 

. 11-33. 

Saturn wears a ‚Äî garment. 1 1-1 4. ! 
BLACK GEAM. The grain be- 
longing to Eahu is ‚Äî . 11*28. j 
BLACK SMITH. 11-20 
BLAME. A name for the 8th 
house. 1-14, 

To get undeserved ‚Äî XIX-17. 
BLASPHEMOUS. To he a- 
heretic XXV46. 

BLAZING. One of the ten Avast- 
thas of a planet. III-18. 

BLEEDING. To bring on‚Äî from 
rectum. XIY-10. 

BLOOD. It is the M#on that 
causes impurity of ‚Äî . XIV-3. 
The Moom governs‚Äî. 11-9. 

To be bothered by impurity of 
XIX-9;XXI.13; XXYI-13. 


BODY 

I Trouble through flow of ‚Äî . XXI 
i -78. 

. BLOODLESSNESS. XlV-14. 

; BLOW. To get a wound as a 
: result of a ‚Äî from a piece of 

j wood or stone. XlY-8. 
j BODILY SPLENDOUE. Loss 
j ol-*. XlY-7, 
j BODY. ‚Äî of Kalapurusha 1‚Äî4. 

I dupiter possesses a big ‚Äî . 

I n-12. 

I Kotu has ai\ elevated ‚Äî . 11-34. 

i Eahu, Guiika and Kotu will 
! cause trouble to tlio ‚Äî . 11-26. 

Saturn luis got a tall ‚Äî full of 
arteries and veins. I [-14. 

The ‚Äî and limbs of a person will 
he cominensurate in their pro- 
])orti(ms with the rising sign. 
XYI-1. 

The limbs and‚Äî of Yonus are 
huge and his ‚Äî has the colour of 
t he D u r va grass. (1-13. 

The i\Ioon has a liuge ‚Äî . II-9. 

The Moon I'^presents the‚Äî-. 
11-26. 

Tiie Sun causes burning of tlio 
whole‚Äî. XlY-2. 

The Sun 1ms a 3f]iiare-l)uilt ‚Äî . 
IL8. .‚ñÝ 

The Sun is the lord of the bones 
in the‚Äî. IL8. 

To have a dwarfish ‚Äî . XXY*13. 

To have a ‚Äî simihiA‚Äô to a water 
pot. JX-11. 

To have a deformed ‚Äî . YII.L9. 

To liavc a lean ‚Äî . YITI-1. 

To liave a loan and frial‚Äî . IX- 7 

To liave a syrnmet-rioal and shin- 
ing--^. 1X42. 

To liave one‚Äôs ‚Äî Emde wlnto by 
tho besmearing of sacred ashes, 
VI- 29. 

To hiWQ one‚Äôs‚Äî soiled by jj^uss 
from wounds, and the gait re- 
tarckd to ‚Äî i*y weakness and 
wasted in the several const i- 



12 

BODY 


INDEX 


BREAST 


To have wounds in fche ‚Äî . -XXI 
-32. 

To possess a beautiful ‚Äî . VI- 
3.25; VII43; VIIM7. 

To possess a strong ‚Äî . YI-50. 
Trembling of the ‚Äî . XXI-34. 

BOIL. Death due to ‚Äî s. XIV- 
18. 

To suffer from ‚Äî . XX [-9. 
BOLD. To be-. VXn-82. 

To speak‚Äî iy in an assembly. 
VI-16. 

BONDAGE. To liv¬£ by servile ‚Äî 

Y-8. 

BONES. Mara governs the mar- 
row of the ‚Äî and flesh. II-IO. 
The Sun is the lord of the ‚Äîin 
the body. II-8. 

BOUNTIFUL. To be‚Äî. VI-7. 
BOUNTY. To live at the‚Äî of 
another. VIIDirD. 

BOWELS. To be afllictod by a 

disease relating to the . 

VIIL31. 

BOXING. To be clever in ‚Äî . 

xvni-3. 

BOYHOOD. Condition when a 
planet is said to be in ‚Äî ‚Ä¢. III-3. 

BRAHMAN. Presiding deity of 
Jupiter and Ketu. 11-27. 
BRAHMA, ‚Äîas lord of Shoda- 
samsa. Ill 6. 

The condition under which a 
person goes to ‚Äî loka. XIV'-23. 
To b 0 *abBoi'bed in the knowledge 
of the identity of the universe 
with ‚Äî . VI-31. 

BRAHMIN. Acquisition of 
money through ‚Äî s. XX I *57. 
Adoration of the-. XXI-7. 59. 
Childlessness owing to the curse 
of a‚Äî. XII-22. 

Delight ir worshipping Gods 
and- 8. XXI-56. 

Devoted to the‚Äîs and the Gods. 
XXII.32. 

Harm resulting from the curse 
of ‚Äî s. and Gods. XIV-/). 
Honouring of‚Äî s. XIX-7. 


Matters relating to a - should be- 
ascertained through Venus, 
11-19. 

Meeting with ‚Äî s. XXI 12. 
Quarrel with a great ‚Äî . XXI-67. 
Reverence to Gods and ‚Äî s. TI-5. 
The dwellings of Gods and ‚Äî s. 
IL-16. 

To bo a wealthy ‚Äî . XVIII-3. 

To bo intent in worshipping 
Gods and ‚Äî s. IX-7. 

To engage oneself in doing work 
forf-s. and the Gods. VI-48. 

To get money through ‚Äî s. 
XlX-24. 

To have access to ‚Äî s. XIX-19. 

To have no reverence for‚ÄúS. 
VI-23. 

To maintain oneself through the 
help of ‚Äî s. V-6. 

To please hosts of ‚Äî s. VI-53. 

To revere Gods and ‚Äî s. YIII-4. 
To show reverence to ‚Äî s. and. 
Gods. XX-10. 

To worship the ‚Äî s. and Gods. 
XXI-23. 

Troubles through dispute 
with ‚Äî 3. and Kshatriyas. 
XIY-9. 

Venus and Jupiter are ‚Äî s. 11-24. 
Worship of Gods and ‚Äî . XXI- 
31, 41, 43, 45. 

BRAHMINICAL. To shine 
with ‚Äî lustre. VI-31. 

BRAIN FEVER. Death by‚Äî. 
XIY-18. 

BRAVE. Not to be‚Äî. XXV-8. 

To be-^. VI-2, 9 ; VIII-2. 8, 
10, 11, 24; IX-7; XYI-7 ; 
XXV-11. 

BRAVERY. To possess exces- 
sive ‚Äî . XXI-20. 

BREACH. Scandal due to a ‚Äî of 
decorum. XIX-14. 

BRE.AST. A designation for the 
3rd house. 1*11. 



INDEX 


BREAST 

The particular a^terism resting 
‚Äòon tlio ‚Äî of a person during the 
transit of planets and the effects 
thereof, XXVI-35. 

BEIDGE. A term to denote the 
4th lionse. 1*12. 

BKIGHT. To be ‚Äî in appearance. 
Xi-3 

BKIGHT HALF. Planets that 
are strong in the ‚Äî of a month. 
lV-1. 

BBOTIILK. A clue to guess the 
number of one‚Äôs ‚Äî s. XXLV* 9. 
A.desigiiation for the 3rd house. 
I-ll. 

Acquisition of wealtli througli 
a‚Äî. V-1. 

Elder ‚Äî . A term for the 11th 
house. 

Help to, or from, a ‚Äî . XX-4. 

It is tlu‚Äôougli iNlars, tliat any- 
thing about one‚Äôs ‚Äî s. should bo 
ascGJ‚Äôtained. IL-3. 

Boss of ‚Äî s. XYI~8. 

Mars causes quarrel with ‚Äî ^s. 
XIY-4. 

Mars represents the youngest ‚Äî 
and Jupiter, the eldest. 11*25. 
iVf i s u n d e r s t a n d i n g s with 
one‚Äôs ‚Äî s. XXI-32. 

Separation from one‚Äôs ‚Äî s. XXI 
21 - 

Tlid condition under which the 
prosperity of one‚Äôs ‚Äî s. is indi* 
cated. XYI-8. 

The number of ‚Äî s. one may 
have. XYI-9. 

To ascertain all about one‚Äôs 
father‚Äôs ‚Äî ‚ñÝ. character, etc. 
XY-22. 

To be helpful to one‚Äôs ‚Äî ‚Ä¢. XYI-7. 
To bo hostile to one‚Äôs ‚Äî s. 
YIII 25. 

To 1)0 praised by one‚Äôs ‚Äî s. YI-47, 
To be without ‚Äî s. XXV-10. 

To determine the effects (phalas) 
of one‚Äôs ‚Äî . XV-21. 

To divine all details about 
one's*^. XV‚Äò25 ; XVI-12. 


13 

BUSINESS 


To expect the demise of one‚Äôs‚Äî. 
XX- IG. 

To have a renowned-‚Äî. VlII-lI. 
To liavo ‚Äî s. VI 11-5. 

To have good ‚Äî s. VIII-ll 
I To liave no s. Yl-GO ; YITL8. 

I To lose a‚Äî. Yni-29 ; XXV- 15. 

To qiiariei with one‚Äôs ‚Äî s and 
‚Ä¢ sons. XIX-20. 

Trouble and sickness to one‚Äôs ‚Äî . 
XXL49. 

Trouble through, or to a ‚Äî . 

XX-20. 

BROTHERHOOD To he devoid 
of gocxl ‚Äî . V1-G8. 

BUDDHIST. 11-20; XXVII 5. 
BTTDHA. f-G ; 11-4, 11, 21. 22, 
24, 27. 

BUFFAIX). .Aquisition of ‚Äî s. 
XlX-23 ; XX-9 
Increase in ‚Äî s. XXI "4 8. 

Re: a ‚Äî , one ouglit to ascertain 
through Venus 11*19, 

Re: a one should guess 
through Satuin. II-7. 

Term for denoting the 5th 
house I 12. 

The full ]>oriod of life of a ‚Äî is 
24 yoars. ^ XXII-3L, 

To earn through ‚Äî s. Y'7. 

BUG. 11-20. 

BULLS. Acquisition of ‚Äî . 
XIX 23. 

‚Ä¢ 

Life period of ‚Äî is 24 yoars. 
XI 1-31. 

BURD.1^]N. To live ))y carry- 
ing V-8. 

BUltNING. ‚Äî of the whole body* 
XIV-2. 

BURNING SENSATION. To 
have a ‚Äî . X.IX-23. 

BURNT. Yoga for one‚Äôs house 
being‚Äî. XYMd. 

BUSINESS. Cleverness in doing 
any‚Äî. XXI-33. 

Failure ¬ª of the ‚Äî ^undertaken 
XIX-14; XXL65; XXVI-2B. 



u 

BUSINESS 


INDEX 


CESSATION 


Gain of one‚Äôs ‚Äî . 

Success in ‚Äî . XIX-C, 7. 

To be intent on one‚Äôs ‚Äî . IX-9. 

To be wearied by being engaged 
in a worthless and fruitless- ‚Äî ‚Ä¢ 
XXYI-23. 

To bi‚Äôing to a successful termi- 
nation any ‚Äî orginated by one- 
self XX-II. 


To engage oneself in other‚Äôs ‚Äî . 
vni-27. 

To have obstacle to one‚Äôs-^. 
XXVI- 18. 

To have success in a -at tlie 
very outset. V1-G5 ; YIII-7. 

To suffer ruin of one‚Äôs ‚Äî . NXY- 
2r3 ; XXVI 45, 46. 
j BUTTOCKS. To have elevated 
I IX-4. 


CALAMITY. ITI-10. 

Happening of a great ‚Äî . XXT- 
16, 22. 

To Ijo overcome l)y -ies. XVI- 

4. 

To have ‚Äú‚Äúies beyond number. 

XXI- 24. 

To suffer‚Äî. XXIV-42 

CALLING. XX-21. 

CAfiM, One of the ton Avastthas 
of a planet. 111-18. 

CALUMNIATING. Saturn is ex- 
ceedingly ‚Äî 11-14. 

CALUMNy. To have undeserv- 
ed- XIX- 17. 

To suffer ‚Äî . XX-IB. 

CAMEL. 11-20. 

The period of life of a ‚Äî , 

XX I I - 3 J. 

CANCEK. Same as Kataka. 
CAPABLE.* One of the ton Avast- 
thas of a planet. 111-18. 
CAPKICOBN. Same as Makara. 
CAPTIVITY. One‚Äôs‚Äîought to 
be guessed through Saturn. 
II-7. 

CARBUNCLE. XIV-3, 11. 
CARDINAL SIGNS. 1-9. 
CARNAL APPETITE. To sufTor 
from‚Äî. XX- 18. 

CARRIAGE. To posses a-‚Äî. 
XIX- 16. 

CASTE. Predications should he 
so declared as to fit 6n with 
one‚Äôs---. XXI-84. 


The -of Rahu 11-33. 

The ‚Äî s. of the seven planets. 
11-24. 

To know the ])articulai ‚Äî of the 
native in his past and future 
hirtiis XlV-24, 20. 

CAT. IMS, 

CATARACT. To have a ‚Äî -in the 
eyes. VIII- 1. 

CATARRH. Death due to ‚Äî 
XlV-17. 

CATTLE. Acquisition of‚Äî . XXI- 
17, 43. 

All ‚Äî -will unite in one place. 
XXI-IO. 

Destruction of ‚Äî . XXUG; XXI- 
25, 

Loss of‚Äî. XXI-37, 74 ; XXVI- 

22 . 

Sickness to ‚Äî . XXI'40. 

To acquire more‚Äî . XIX-20. 

To apprehend danger from~^. 
XXVI 18. 

To he rich in‚Äî. VI -48. 

To possess ‚Äî IX- 2. 

CATTLILFARIMING. To get in- 
come through ‚Äî . V‚Äú3. 

CELEBRATED. To be widely-. 

I VI- 65. 
i CENSURE. II-7. 

CENTIPED SIGNS. 1-7. 

; CEREMONIES, -‚Äîin honour of 
j departed spirits. XII 24. 

CESSATION, ‚Äîof quarrels. XX- 

' 9. 



INDEX 


CHAKRx\ 

CHAKRA. The number of years 
‚Ä¢constifciiting fcbe entire Ayus in 
a ‚Äî . XXIf-l.'b 14. ‚ñÝ 

CHAKRA. To have in one‚Äôs body 
iTiarks of ‚Äî . VI-30. 

CHAMARA YOGA. VI-44. 

CHANAKYA. XXI[-24. 

CHANDRA. 11-2,21.36. 

See under Moon. 

CHANDRA AVASTTIIAS. IV-IG. 

CHANDRAJA. Ii-3l. 32. 

CHANDRA KRIYADI. IV-12,20 

CHANDRA KRIYA FHAT^A. IV- 
13, 15. 

CHANDRA VELA-PHALA. IV* 
17- 19. 

CHAPA. 1-7. 

ClIARA RASI. 1-9 ; XIII-14 ; 

xrv-27. 

CHARA K ARANAS. XrM5. 

CHARACTER, ‚Äîof planets. II- 

Tbo Ayiis is only for tboso wbo 
prosoi‚Äôvo the landrnaiks of ‚Äî ‚Ä¢ 
and conduct. XXIL-32. 

The Moon deterjuinos tbe - of 
one‚Äôs heart. XV- 15. 

To ascertain ono‚Äôs fatlier‚Äôs ‚Äî ‚ñÝ. 

Xy- 22 . 

To be of a spotless ‚Äî . VI- 15. 

To be of a very fjood-^. VI*25. 

To 1)0 possessed of good ‚Äî . 
VHT-IO. 

To bo vile in ‚Äî . ITI-14. 

CHARACTERISTIC Q U A L I- 
TI ES. XV-15. 

CHARIOTS. To own‚Äî. XXV-30 

CHARITABLE. To be‚Äî. VII-22. 

CHARMING SPEECH. II 6. 

CHARMS. To be clover in‚Äî and 
exorcising Vni-15. 

To be conversant with ‚Äî or 
spells. VIII-12. 

CHASTE. A woman to be ‚Äî . 
XI-7. 

CHASTITY. XHl. 

CHATAKA. BIRD. ,11-18. 


15 

CHILDREN 

CETATtJKASEA EIOUSES. 1-18. 
CIIATUKDASI. XII- 17. 
CIIATIIKTIII, Xir-lf). 
CIIATUSFn'ADA SIGNS. 1-7. 
ClI.Vi‚ÄôU.SHTAYA HOUSES. I- 
17. 

CIIE.AT. To l)e a-. VI-62: 

xvm-io. 

CHEATING. To bo clever in‚Äî 
othorr. * XVII 1-4 ; XIX-9. 

CJ f EEKS. To 1)0 liai)io to diseases 
affecting the ‚Äî , XXL76. 
do have large ‚Ä¢ . IX 5. 
CHESIITABAliA. IV-1, 2. 
CHEST. Distribution of tbe 
stars over tbe ‚Äî of a person* 
during tbo transits of planets 
and the effects thereon. XXVI- 
35, 36. 37. 

Jupiter has an elevated ‚Äî . JT-12. 
To have a broad- . IX -8. 

ClIFIATTRA YOGA. VL-44, 49. 
CHIHDRA TITHL XIL15, 16. 
CIHEE. To become a ‚Äî of one's 
family. XV 1.1 1- 2. 

To become a ‚Äî or mavor of a 
City. VnT-20. 

To becon )0 a friend of a renown- 
ed VI- 63. 

CHILD. Early ‚Äòdestruclion of 
a-‚Äî. XTII-/b 4, 5, 8, 9, 12, 13, 
Conditions under which long life 
is secured to the ‚Äî ‚Ä¢. XIII-iH. 

To bo blessed with ‚Äî ron. X-9j 
To have a * late in life after a 
great effort. XII- 4. 
CHILDHOOD. XXVIII-1-4. 
CHILDLESS. To he‚Äî. VIII-26 ; 
X-8; XVII.M4. 

CHILDHESSNESS. ‚Äî and its 
cause. XIT-19. 21, 23. 
CHILDLESS RASIS. XII-3, 4. 
CHILDREN. XXVIIM, 4. 

A planet in a Suralokamsa 
secures to the native ‚Äî . III-9. 
Benefical effect through one‚Äôs ‚Äî . 
XXI-41. 

Birth of‚Äî. XIX-7, 11. 22; XXD 
23, 29, 3?, 43 ; XXVI-17, 19, 
20 , 21 . 



INDEX 


CHILDKEN 

‚Äî . male or female. XXTI 11. 

‚Äî fihould he declared tliroiigli 
the 9bh house in a woman‚Äôs 
nativity. XI-1. 

‚Äî to bo troubled by gout. XIX- 
13. 

Danger tlirough- ‚Äî ‚ñÝ XIV-2. 
Danger to‚Äî. XIV-B. 

Destruction of ‚Äî . IX- 19. 
Happiness to‚Äî. XIX- 10*. 

Ills to‚Äî. XIV-9. 

Separation from one‚Äôs-‚Äî. XXI-8. 
Sickness to ‚Äî . XlX-M; XX- 
20; XXI-l], IG. 3G. 40, 49. 
^rluffering to‚Äî XIX- 18. 

Loss of‚Äî. XXI 37 ; XXV-26 ; 
XX VI-22. 

Misunderstandings with one‚Äôs ‚Äî 
XXl-32. 

Not to have many ‚Äî . XXV-S. 

To 1)0 bereft of . VI -11 ; Vfll- 
3, 4, 9. 22, 24 ; X-i. 

To 1)0 deserted by one‚Äôs ‚Äî . XXV- 
13. 

To be destitute of ‚Äî . XXl-83. 

To bo endowed with good ‚Äî . 
XX-G. 

To be liappy with one‚Äôs ‚Äî . XXJ- 
51. 

To become mothers of ~that are 
dead XI -9. 

To have a few‚Äî. VHI-IG. 

To iiave a good number of ‚Äî . 
Vin-12; XI I- 10. 

To liavo a very limited number 
of ‚Äî . XVlIl-lb. 

To have ‚Äî by a second wife. XII- 

5. 

To have many ‚Äî . VI 1 1-27. 

To live happily blessed with ‚Äî . 
XV 1-20. 

To live in the company of one‚Äôs 
‚Äî . XX-56.80. 

To lose‚Äî . Vf-62. VI 11-1,30; 
XlI-9; XIX-2L. 

To possess‚Äî. IIM5;'^VI-3, 27. 
34.49, 51, 65; VIII-7, 14, 


16 

CLOTH 


18, 19; X-10; XD5 ; Xir-3 ; 
XXVT'19. 

To quarrel with one‚Äôs... XIX- 
9; XXVI-17. 

Trouble to-. XIX-23 ; XX-19 ; 
XXr-24, 42. 

Yoga under wliich acquisition 
of ‚Äî is assured. Xll-I. 

ClIITaD4:‚ÄôlTTA. A name for the 
7th house. 1-13. 

CIIITTKA. Effect of birth in the 
asterism . XL9 ; XII i-8. 

CHOLEEA. XIV-14. 

CHORA. A name for the 7th 
house. 1-13. 

CHOWIUES. To be endowed 
with waving ‚Äî . VH-3. 

To move in a palamiuin with ‚Äî . 
waving to and fro. VI -53. 

To pai'ade seated on the back of 
an elei)hant with ‚Äî adorning 
on tlie two sides. VII-G. 

CITY. To be a leader of a ‚Äî . 
XVHi-3. 

To 1)0 a mayor of a ‚Äî . VIII- 

> 20, 27. 

To bo a watchman of a ‚Äî . 
XVHf-J2. 

CITY EAT HERB. To get honour 
from the ‚Äî . XXl-Sl. 

CLAN. To 1)0 the head of one‚Äôs ‚Äî . 
XVIH-27. 

CLEAN. To be‚Äî. VI -2. 

CLERICAL \VORK. To earn 
through ‚Äî . V-5. 

CLEVER. To bo ‚Äî . IfI-8, 15. 
Vl-2.30; XVIH-8. 

To bo‚Äî in politics. XVLG. 

To 1)0 ‚Äú"in working in metals. 
XVHi-l. 

QLEVERNESS. IX-14. 

I CLOTH, n-2, 6. 35. 

acquisition of ‚Äî s. XVI-13; XIX- 
7, 26 ; XXI-29. 43, 59. 

lioss of ‚Äî XXI-8. 

To be an adopt in the dyeing 
of‚Äî. XVIiI-2. 

To be decorated with beauti- 
ful-8. VL20. 



CLOTH 


INDEX 


17 

CONJUNCTION 


To get new*‚Äî s. . XIX-22 ; XX- 
. 8 ; XXI.12. 16. 

To have a profusion‚Äô of ‚Äî XIX~ 
19. 

To have ‚Äî s and ornaments. VI- 

48. 

To have good ‚Äî s VITI-17. 

To trade in ‚Äî -s. V-3. 

To wear s of variegated colour. 
VI-34. 

CLOTHES. A designation to de- 
note the 4th house. I 12. 
CLOTHING. XXI-75. 

COCK. 11-18. 

CODE. To become a i^rofieiont 
111 the‚Äî of laws. XVLO. 
COHABITATION. Trouble in‚Äî. 
XtV-7. 

COITION. Not to indulge much 
in‚Äî. XI-7. 

COLIC Death due to‚Äî . XIV-17. 
COLOUR. IM3, 34; IX-13 ; 

. -XVM. 

COMBUSTION. Effect of a 
planet in ‚Äî . XX-30. 

Reduction in tfie period of Ayur- 

daya when a planet is in ‚Äî . 
XX IV- 29. 

COMET. XXV-28. 

COMFORT. ‚Äî s of the couch. 

XIX‚Äô26 ; XXI-35, 75. 

‚Äî s requisite for enjoyment 
XXL8I. 

Personal ‚Äî ^s. XlX-10, 

. To bo blessed with material ‚Äî -s. 

VI-6. 

To be endowed with happiness 
and ‚Äî III* 11. 

To be endowed with many ‚Äî s. 
VIIM9. 

To be intent' on having all‚Äî s. 

xvni- 12 . 

To enjoy all ‚Äú s III-15 ; VI-38 ; 
X-7; Xin-24; XVM7. 

To have various ‚Äî s that wealth 
affords. XXI-29. 

To secure the-^s of one's sons, 
XXI- 82. 


COATMAND. A term to indicate 
the 10th house. 1-15. 

COAIMANDER. Birth oUa-. 
VI 42. 

COMMENDATION. An expres- 
sion to denote the 11th house. 
M5. 

COMMERCE. A term to signify 
the 10th house. 1*15. 

COAIMODITIES. Acquisition of 
saleable ‚Äî . XXI-45. 

COMATON SIGNS. 1-9. 

COAIPASSION. II-5. 

CONCEPTION. Clearness of‚Äî. 
XXM7. 

Time favourable to ‚Äî , XI-ll.* 

Time when ‚Äî may take place 
Xn-12. 

CONCH. 11-12. 

CONCH SHELL. Sounds of the‚Äî . 
VI 38. 

CONDUCT. Course of ‚Äî prescrib- 
ed in the Vedas. VI-31. 

The land- marks of character 
and-. XXlI-32. 

To shine in all one's courses of 
‚Äî . IX- 14. 

CONFIDENCE. To have -in 
one‚Äôs speech. XIX 10. 

CONFIDENT. /)no of the ten 
Avasthas‚Äôof a planet. III-18. 

CONFUSION. Sorrow and‚Äî to 
the person concerned. XIX-25 

CONJUNCTION. Effect of tlie 
5th house or its lord being* in ‚Äî 
with male planets. XII Tl. 

Effect of the lord of the 5th be- 
ing in ‚Äî with the lords of the 
12th, 6th or the 8th. XII-9. 

Effect of the lords of the Lagna 
and the 6th house coming in ‚Äî 
(while in transit). XVI-33. 

Effect of the lord of the La^na 
coming in ‚Äî rwith the lord of 
any particular Bhava. X VI-36. 

On ‚Äî s of planets. XVin-l*5 ; 
XXVIII 1-4. 

Reduction by half of the period 
contribi^ted by a planet when 
he is in‚Äî with another planet. 
XXIV-29. 



18 INDEX 

CONJtTNdTlOH COURAGE 


Vetltifei in ‚Äî with a malefic in the 
5fch, 7th oy 9th will make the 
native bereft of a wife. X-4. 
CONNOISSEUB. To be a good- 
in food Vin44. 

CONSTANCY. Anything re: one‚Äôs 
‚Äî should be guessed through 
Saturn. ID?. 

CONSTITUTION. To be endowed 
with a strong ‚Äî . VI‚Äò63 ; .VIII- 
6 ; XVM7. 

CONSUMPTION. Death by‚Äî. 
XlV-19. 

To be soi:?ed with‚Äî. XIV-11. 

To suffer from XXI-I, 77. 

To suffer from pulmonary ‚Äî . 
XXI-7 

CONl‚Äôi:.VL‚ÄôJ'J). To be‚Äî Yl-fi. 
CONTROL To have one‚Äôs senses 
under‚Äî . VI-31 ; XXII-32. 
CONVERSANT. To be-with 
everything. VTIMS. 

COOK. IM8; XVIIL4. 
COOKING. ‚Äî as a source of in- 
come. V*4. 

COOKING UTENSILS. II-3. 
COOLY LABOUR. 11-7. 
COPPER. IM. 

Acquisition of XXI-78. 

To be a dealer in XVriI-7. 
COPPER ORE. 11-1,30. 

CORAL. 11-29 ; XXI-60. 

Income through trade on‚Äî s. 
V-3. 

CORI?. A planet in a Suralokam- 
sa secures ‚Äî to the native. Ill 9 
Acquisition of ‚Äî . XXI-28. 

All ‚Äî will unite in one place. 
XXI-19 

Anything about - has to be de- 
termined through the Moon 
IL2. 

Lo^of‚Äî . XXMl, 52. 
Phenomenal increase of ‚Äî XXI- 
56 

To have plenty of ‚Äî VI 46, 48. 
To possess^. VIII-11, 14; 
1X46. 

To possess no wealth or^ ‚Äî ¬ª 
XXV 9. 


CORPSE. Fear by seeing ‚Äî -s' 
XIV-9. 

COUCH. Comforts of the‚Äî. 
XIX- 26; XXI-35, 75. 
Information re : one‚Äôs ‚Äî ^should 
be sought for through Venus. 
1L6. 

To enjoy the happiness of the ‚Äî . 
XXM2, 43. 

COUGH Death by‚Äî XIV-19. 
COUNCILLOR.^ The post of 
under a King, XX-6. 

COUNTRY. Absence from one‚Äôs 
own . XIX- 17. 

Mars represents the ‚Äî of Behar. 
XIV-26. 

Residence in a foreign ‚Äî ‚ñÝ. XXI- 
27. 

The -ies signified by the planets. 
11-28 

The Direction of the ‚Äî of the 
wife. X42. 

To earn in a place other than 
one‚Äôs own native country. V-9. 
To go out of cue‚Äôs own ‚Äî . XXI- 
26. 

To know the particular ‚Äîof the 
individual in his past and 
future births. XIV- 24. 

To leave one‚Äôs‚Äî. XXVI-18. 

To suffer banishment from 
one‚Äôs ‚Äî . XIX-26. 

Trouble in one‚Äôs ‚Äî . XIX-23. 

COUPLE The‚ÄûYoga for a‚Äî being 

lucky and enjoy all comforts. 
X-7. 

1 Yoga for the ‚Äî not living to- 
get her. XI -3. 

COURAGE. Anything about ‚Äî 
should be ascertained through 
Mars. II 3. 

‚Äî is signified by the 3rd house, 
l-i I . 

To ascertain one‚Äôs own ‚Äî . XV- 
15. 

To be‚Äî OU3 Vni.l2, 22. 

To shine in‚Äî . IX-14. 

Uplketu in thOt house makes 

the nati ve ‚Äî ofia. XXV -26 ^ 



COURSE OF CONDUCT 


INDEX 


19 

DAIVATA 


COURSE OP CONDUCT. To 
follow the right ‚Äî VIII-IG. 

COURTESAN. Association 

with ‚Äî ^s. XXI 40, 83. 

Loss of bodily splendour as a 
result of intercourse with ‚Äî s. 
XIV-7. 

Re : a-‚Äî, one ought to ascertain 
through Venus. 11-19. 

COVETOUS. To be‚Äî. IX-11. 

COW. A planet in a Gopuramsa 
secures ‚Äî s t6 the native. 111-8. 

About ‚Äî 8 one ought to ascertain 
through the Moon. IL2. 

About ‚Äî one ought to ascertain 
through Venus. 11-19. 

Acquisition of‚Äîs. XVT*13 ; 
XIX-7. 23, 24 ; XX-9. 

Childlessness owing to the kill- 
ing of a ‚Äî . Xn-22. 

‚Äî is denoted by the 4th house. 

i-12. 

‚Äî s to go into the possession of 
others. XVI-14. 

To earn through ‚Äî -s. V'7. 

To obtain ‚Äî s. XIX -12. 

To possess ‚Äî 8. IX-2. 

COW-GRAM. 11-28. 

COW-HERD. 11-18, 

COW- KIND. 11-21. 

CRANE.. 11-17. 

CREEDS. A mendicant who does 
not know anything about the 
various ‚Äî XXVII. 5. 

CRIMINAL. To entangle oneself 
in ‚Äî actions. VI-68. 

CROOKED. To be ‚Äî in one's 
views. IX ‚Äî 4. 

To go in-^wa:^s. XXI-55. 

CROW. 11-20. 


CROWN. VII-3. 

CRUEL. A woman to be ‚Äî beyond 
measure to her husband. XI-2. 
Acquisition of wealth through-‚Äî 
deeds. XlX-f). 

He who is born in a Daridra 
Yoga will be-. VL68. 

Mars is;‚Äî in nature. IT-10. 

One's - ty should be ascertained 
through Mars. II- 3. 

Saturn is ‚Äî ‚Ä¢. 11-14. 

To be‚Äî. Vin-lO, 13; XVIII- 
1 ; XXV-8. 

To be ‚Äî ^hearted. VIII-1. ‚Ä¢ 

To be ‚Äî in behaviour. 111-12. 

To be‚Äî in disposition. IIT-14. 

To be‚Äî minded. VIlI-23. 

To 1)0 making money by ‚Äî -acts. 
XlX-18. 

To do ‚Äî actions. XIX 9. 

To do acta. lX-8 ; XVni-14. 

CUCKOO. 11-20. 

CULTIVATOR. A‚Äî is denoted 
by the Moon. IT-17. 

To have misunderstandings with 
one's‚Äîs. XlX-21. 

CUNNING. Raha is‚Äî. II 33. 
CUPID. To bo equal to‚Äî 'In 
beauty. j^XV-30. 

CURSE Harm resulting from 
the ‚Äî 3 of Brahmins and Ggds. 
XIV-6. 

Sonlossness due to the ‚Äî o*' a 
serpent or that of a Brahmin. 
XII-22. 

Sonlessness due to the ‚Äî of tlie 
Manes. XTJ-20. 

To he ‚Äî -d by the people VIII 9. 

CUTANEOUS ERUPTION. Xo 
suffer from‚Äî; XXI-9. 


D 


DAINTIES. To feed others with DAIVATA.' A name to denote the 
all kinds of‚Äîin plenty. XX-6. 9th house-LH. 

AINYA YOGAS. Vl-32, 33. 



20 INDEX 

DAK8HA KABNA 

DAKSHA KABNA. A designafeion 
for the 3rd house, I-ll. 
DAKSHAKSHI. -^-^ignifies the 
2nd house. I-IO. 

DAMA YOGA. VD39, 40. 

DAMBFjL. Acquisition of an 
excolionfe^ ‚Äî . XXl-Hl. 

Acquisition of many ‚Äî -s. XXI- 
45. 

Cliildlessness duo to tho murdor 
of a‚Ñ¢. Xi r-22. 

Servifie under a ‚Äî . V 3. 

To be over sporting with a ‚Äî . 
VI-24. 

To be loved by a beautiful ‚Äî . 
VlIl-(). 

To enjoy comforts in the com- I 
pany of many beautiful ‚Äîs. 
VI-38, I 

To obtain enjoyment in tho com- j 
pan y of y o u ng ~ a . X 1 X- 1 2 . j 

DANCbjR. About a ‚Äî . one ought j 
to ascertain through Venus, i 
11-19. 

To boconio a public‚Äî . XXVIl-S. 

DANCING. To bo fond of ‚Äî and 
music. VI 40. 

To bo versed in the art of ‚Äî . 

XV 1 11-4. 

To have a liking for music and ‚Äî . 

IX 3. 

DANCING 11 AT Ji. Tlie‚Äî is one 
of tlvo places of Venus. Il-IG. 

DANGEB. ‚Äîat all times from 
enemies. XXI -52. 

‚Äî from i\ re. X I X - 1 7 ; X XV-23 . 
‚Äîfrom lire to concealed wealth, 
grain, sons and wife. X1X*5. 

‚Äî from iwison. XlX-21 ; XXl-G. 

‚Äî from poison, tire and weaixm. 
..XX I -30. 

'‚Äî-from the authorities. XXl-5. 

‚Äî ftorn the sovereign, fire, 
thieves and aerpciits. XXl-71. 

‚Äúfnun the sovereign, fire 

tlnevel and weapons, XXI -38. 
-^from thieves. XXI-47. 

^from thunder. XXf-20, 


DASA 

‚Äî from thunderstorm. XXI-14. 

‚Äî from water. XXI-18, 37. 

‚Äî from weapons, fire, thieves, 
enemies, rulers. XXI- 22. 

‚Äîto life. XXT.42, Gl; XXVI- 
24. 28, 33. 34. 35, 3^5 40. 

‚Äî to one‚Äôs lands and house. 
XX-IG. 

Mars causes ‚Äî from fire, poison, 
weapons, leprosy, &c. XlV-4. 
No--to life. XXVI-27. 

The Moon causes ‚Äî from water, 
Balagrahas, Durga, Kinnaras. 
female Yaksha Ac. XlV-3. 

Tho Sun causes ‚Äî from wood, 
fire, weapon, poison, wife, child- 
ren, (luadruped, thief, the sove- 
reign, Ac. XIV- 2. 

The Bun‚Äô.s transit in the 9th 
house will cause ‚Äî to the native. 
XXVMl. 

To apprehend ‚Äî from cattle. 
XXV 1-18. 

To ho exempt from distress 
and ‚Äî . XXV-10. 

To guess ‚Äî or destruction for a 
person b h r o u g h Saturn‚Äôs 
Ashtakavarga. XX I V- 14 
Transits of planets over a Basi 
I containing henelic dots loss than 
I 2vS in tlie Sarvashtaka varga 
i produce ‚Äî .XXllI-20. 
i DABIDBA YOGA. Vr-57, 08. 
DAiUDBYA. ‚Äîis denoted by the 
1 2th house. I-IG. 

DABING. One‚Äôs sliould he as- 
certained Ihrouglt Mars, 11-3. 
To acquire wealth by doing- 
deeds. Vi *-2. 

To he capable of accomplish- 
! ing ‚Äî acts. XV I- 7. 

j To 1 h) very ‚Äî rash VIII-B. 
j To subdue one‚Äôs enemies by 
\ doing ‚Äî acts. XX'7. 

DARK, 11-14. 

DARK HALF. IV l. 

DABK HOLES. II-IG. 
DARKNESS. 11-20. 

DASA. servant), a term to 
denotOi.lbe Bfch house. I-I4, 



INDEX 


OASA 


DAS A X-13, 14; XLIMS. 25, 
.XJX-1, 2, 4. 5/0, 7, 9, 10, 11, 

12. 13, 14. 15, 10, 17. 18, 19; 

20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26; XX- 
2, 3, 4, 5. 6. 7, 8. 9, 10, 11,12, 

13, 14, 15, 16. 17. 18, 19,20, 

21, 22. 23. 24, 25. 26. 27, 28, 

31. 32, 34. 35. 36. 39, 41, 42. 
43,41. 49,53, 51. 55. oO, 58. 
59. 00. 01 ; XXM, 2.3. 4, 5. 0. 
8, 9, 10, 12, J3, 14, 15, 17. 18, 
19,22,20,27,28, 29, 30, 31, 

32, 33, 34. 35, 38, 39. 40, 18, 
49, 53. 55, 58, 59. 09, 72; 7-. 
82. 84 ; XXli-2, 4, 12, 10, 27 ; 

XXIV- 4 ; XXVI 49 ; XXVI I i- 
1-4. 

DASAMSA ITM, 2, 3. 0. 
DASANATIIA. XX-28, 29. 

DAS A iMXUOI,). XV 7, 8, 11, 12. 

29. XXlV-32, 33 ; XXV-25 
DASAVAIKiAS. 11 M. 
DAUdMTEH. Eii14i of a now‚Äî 
.XXM2. 

llirfcli of- s. XIF-ll ; XXl'07¬ª 

To bo t;lio fatlioi- of many ‚Äî s¬ª 
xri.5. 

DAY. U-24; lV-1 ; XV 11 -21. 

25; XXlV-28, 32; XXV-2. 
DAY-inHril. XV [-23. 
DAY-SUiXH. 1-B; IV 0. 
DATADIN. Xn-20; XXl-21 ; 
XXVl 19. 

D]*1A''T1I. A chiiO fco ineofc with 
its‚Äî atonco. XI 1 1-9, 12. 

A i)lanet weak in all the 10 
Vargas will cause the ‚Äî of the 
native. Ill- 10* 

‚Äî incidental to cliildhood - - 

xxvm 1-4. 

‚Äî of one‚Äôs friemls* XX VI -18* 

‚Äî of the mother. XV I- 10* 

‚Äî through <]Ufulrui)e(E* XXV 23. 
‚Äî will hapi.>en in tho liatta of 

Jupiter. XXV [ 45- IG- 
F‚Äôather‚Äôs ‚Äîshould ho detorinined 
from tho Stli liouse from the 
Sun. XV-23. 

Gulika's ¬©fleets bring on ‚Äî ¬ª 

XXV- 2i. 

It is Saturn tl\at settles the 


21 

DECANATK 

cause of ‚Äî of a i)tn‚Äòsoru XV -10. 
Alaletjcs in Vodha to Ad liana, 
Janma or Karma star Irring 
about . XXVI -27. 

Mars‚Äô tran.sit over the 1st and 
2nd star reckoned from one‚Äôs 
natal star brings about‚Äô". 

XXVl -37. 

One‚Äôs ‚Äî should ho g u o s s o <1 
through Saturn. fl-T. 

Or.hor conditions when ‚Äî or 
similar untoward event simuld 
1 h‚Äò e-KifOcted. ^XXA'l-29. 

Sun while in transit if associated 
with a malefic. aJid in Vetlhii 
causes ‚Äî , XX\ 1 - 20 . , 

d'lio'-t l) house signifies ‚Äî . 1-14. 

The lord of tho Lagna wlien 
strong wards oil Xin-21. 
4‚Äôhe manner in which a iKU'Son 
meets with Ids ‚Äî ‚Ä¢ XiV" 12, 13, 

I 1, 15. 17. 18. I!), 2(1, 21. 

Tl>c 2nd and the 7lh houses are 
ternuvl producing houses* 

XX- 40. 

‚Äôrime of of a relative signilksl 
by any Tlhava. XX- 5S. 
dhme of ‚Äîof a revered cldei*. 

XX I- 08. 

J‚Äôime of -of one‚Äôs hrotlier. 

xvn 0. . 

Time of--^)f one‚Äôs father* XVII- 

7. 

Time of ‚Äî of one‚Äôs mother. XX'fl- 

3‚Äôimo of‚Äî of one‚Äôs sont XVINH. 
U'ime when one‚Äôs 'may take 
place XVn-2, 3, 4, 5, 0, 9, KIG. 
11, 12, 13, M, 15, 10, 17. 1.8, 19, 
20, 21, 22, 23, 24‚Äô 25. 20. 27, 
28*; XX-is, 32, 40, 59 ; XXI- 
52. 

T)EirrS. ‚Äî ought to ho giuissed 
through Saturn. 117. 

The Otli house signifios . I- 1 3, 
Time when comph'ito <]is(;}iiirge 
of-‚Äú*will ho made XX-9. 

To ho loaded witii- -. Vl-OB* 

3 ‚Äôo CO n t rac fc ‚Äî ‚Ä¢ J X - 1 8 
DHCANATE. UI-K 1), 13. 14, 15, 
17; X-l ; Xni l3, II. 19; 



22 

decanaxe 


INDEX 


DESTRUCTION 


XIV-12, 28 ; XVII.2, 3, IG, 19. 
23. 28; XX-55; XXIMB ; 
xxvn-3. 

DECAY. A Bhava> suffers ‚Äî . XV- 
2, ,18; 

of vital power. XXV-2G. 
DECE.1TFTIL. A woman to be‚Äî. 
XI-G. 

DECEPTION* To have aberration 
of mind through ‚Äî . XX-17. 

To suffer ‚Äî . XX- 20. 
DECLINATION. lV-1. 

DECIilNE The 12th -house 
signifies ‚Äî I-IG. 

DIXIORCM. Scandal duo to a 
. V> roach of ‚Äî . XIX-M 
DKKli. ir-17. 

DEFEAT, ‚Äîin battle. XXT-27. 
The 8th liouse signifies ‚Äî . 1-14 
To suffer ‚Äî . XX-17. 
DEFINITIONS. XX-21; XXVIII- 
1-4. 

Dl ^FOIlMED. A woman to have 
a ‚Äî husharul XI-G 
To he‚Äî. VJ-hS ; VllI-3. 

To ho ‚Äî in one's face. XXV-13. 
To have a ‚Äî body VI 1.1-9, 28* 

To have ‚Äî -eyes. VI 11-10. 
DEFORMITIES. XlV-4. 
I)]X11UDA4,T0N. Be : one‚Äôs‚Äî 
sliould lie guessed through 
Saturn. 1 1-7. 

To have a ‚Äî from one‚Äôs position. 

IX- 18, 

deha. mo. 

DEITY. 1-14; 11-27; Xn-9 ; 
XX-19. 

DEJIOCTEl). To be‚Äî. VlII-11. 
DEJECHTON. XXVl-lS. 
DEEIOHT. To‚Äî in everything. 
VT-9. 

DEIJGIITED. One of tlie ten 
Avasthas of a planet. 111-18. 
DEI J VERY. A laboured-. XXI- 
G9. 

DEliUSION. Saturn brings on ‚Äî . 
XIV -H. 

DEMISlh Bodily impurity aris- 
ing from the~'-of one‚Äôs relations 
XIV-9. 


‚Äî of both, woman and hei* 
husband. X-8. 

‚Äî of the native. XIll-19. 
Funeral rites for the mother at 
tlie time of her ‚Äî . XVI- 11. 
Time when one‚Äôs ‚Äî will happen. 
XVn-20 ; XX-31, 40 : XXIV- 

13, 15. 

Time when the ‚Äî ^of one‚Äôs brother 
may be expected. XX- 1C. 

Time when the ‚Äî of one‚Äôs father 
will liappen. XXI V-3, 4, 5, 6. 
Time when the ‚Äî of one‚Äôs mother 
may he expected. XXI V-7. 
DEMONS. Fear from frightful ‚Äî 
XfV-4. 

Harm from evil ‚Äî . XlV-5. 
i To ho oppressed l)y ‚Äî . VIfT26. 

i DEMONOLOGY. To dabble in‚Äî 
i XXV-li. 

I DEPENDANTS. Trouble to‚Äî. 

I XXM8. 

: l)EPR.AVi:i). To 1)0‚Äî. VIll-20; 

: XXV-8. 

I DEPRESSION. lV-7 ; VIl-3, 12, 

: 18. 2G, 27. 28,29,30; IX-18, 

i 20; X 3, 4,8,11,15; XIl-9, 
12, 19 ; Xm-19; XIV-25. 28; 
XV-1, 3; XVM, 11, 18; XX- 

14, 22, 27, 28, 30, 35, 37, 38, 
5G, 57; XXll-23; XXIll-lO; 
23; XX IV- 10, 29; XXVl-32. 

DESCENDING. ‚Äî -Dasa. XX-5G. 

DESIRE. Accomplishment of 
one‚Äôs ‚Äî . XIX-11. 

A term denoting the 7th bouse. 
1-13. 

Failure of one‚Äôs ‚Äî . XXI-30. 
DESPISED. To be‚Äî. XX-17. 

To be‚Äî by all. XVIlI-3. 

To bo‚Äî by one‚Äôs relations. V.I- 
G4. 

To be ‚Äî l>y the wicked. VI'58. 

DESTITUTE. To be utterly‚Äî. 
lX-17. 

DESTRUCTION. III-IO, 

‚Äî of a Bhava. XV-3, 4, 7, 8, 12, 
19 ; XVTIM ; XX-35; XXV‚Äò22. 



DESTRUCTION 


INDEX 


‚Äîof cattle. XX-16; XXl-25. 

. ‚Äî of one‚Äôs enemies. XYI-IB ; 
XXI-82. 

‚Äî of one‚Äôs own self. XXD63. 

‚Äî of one‚Äôs roliitions. XXI-70* 

‚Äî of servants. XX*32 
‚Äî of wealth. XXT-6G. 

Sun‚Äôs transit over the natal star 
will cause. ‚Äî XXYl-35. 

To expect one‚Äôs XXIY-H. 
Woman to cause the- -of her 
husband. XT-3. 

DEVAOUETI. I-O. 

DRVALOIvA. IlIY, 9. 
Dl-.VEDYA. 11-29. 

DiTVOTION. ‚Äîto one‚Äôs duty. 

xrx-G. 

Intense ‚Äî in the worsliip of Oods 
and Ih‚Äôahmins. XXI-15. 
DEYOUT To become a misera- 
ble‚Äî. XXYII G. 

DIIAIRYA. A dosi¬£,u-iation for 
.the 3rd house. 1-11. 

DTLVL. 11-28. 

DHANUS 1-7,8; IV-oiYlT- 
9, 10; IX-9; XIV-19 ; XYTII- 
10; XXIM; XXrV-25. 
DHATU, 1-9. 

DITATEU. 11-27. 

DlIENU YOGA. YI-44, 46 , 

Dill. A term to denote the 5th 
house. l~]2. 

DRUM A. XYII 1 0 ; XXY- 1 , 5. 
22. 23, 27, 28. 

DHUMAKETU. XXY-29. 
DIABETES. Danger from‚Äî. 
XXI 55. 

To suffer from ‚Äî . YI-G4. 
DIAMOND. 11-29. 

DIARRHOEA. ‚Äî may 1)6 expect - 
ted through the Moon. XIV*3. 
Mars during his transit in the 
4th house will cause ‚Äî ‚Ä¢. XXYf- 
13. 

To suffer from XXI-77. 
DIGBALA. IV-1, 2, 5. 24 ; YII-l. 
dignified. To be‚Äî. YI-24. 
dignity. One‚Äôs‚Äî has to be 


23 

. DISExVSE 

I ascertained through the Sun. 

' TI- 1 . 

To ho endowed with f)ower 
and‚Äî, in 8. 

To command ‚Äî . XTX-22, 2G. 
DIKSHA CEREMONY. XXYIT 5 
DILAPIDATED. Yoga for one‚Äôs 
house to he old and - . XYl-14. 

‚Äô DINA.. ‚Äî (dn,y). TL24. 

! DINA M RET YE. Xlll-H. 
iDINAlWTI. 11-17. 
DINAPABAI.A. IY-1.5. 

DINA ROGA. XJIl-B. 
DIRECTION. ‚Äî in which one‚Äôs 
wife should happen to he hojm. 

! XXlY-12. 

' ‚Äî 'of the individual in his past 

and future births XlV‚Äú2l. 

; ‚Äî of the signs. 1-9. 

! Tlie ‚Äî of the country of the wife, 

; X.12. 

i DIRECTIONAE STRENGTH.*' 
I lY-1, 2. 5, 24. 

I DIRECTOR. To ho a- Yr-22. 

1 DIRGHAYES. XlJMl. 

I DIRTY. Saturn is‚Äî. I El 4. 

! DIS A I'POl NTMl‚Äô.NT. ( ienonil‚Äî 

1 will mark the Sun‚Äôs transit in 
j the 9th (jouse. XXAH-1 i. 

I To meet .with ‚Äî in all one‚Äôs 
I u ndo r t ak i n gs . Y 1 1 1. - 3 I . 

DISASTER. ‚Äî to one‚Äôs friends. 

XXI -37. 

DISC. XXY-28. 

DISCHARG IE Complete‚Äî of 
one‚Äôs debts. XX- 9, 

I DISCrPLES. To have a good 
number of ‚Äî . YI-3 1 . 

DISCOIMFITURE. To moot 
with ‚Äî . XX-IG. 

i DISCRIMINATION. XY-15. ' 

I DISCUSSION. XXY-9¬´ 
i DISEASE. Allay ment of ‚Äî . 

XXYI-14. 

Cessation of -s. XXI-20. 

Danger fjom ‚Äî s. XXL-53; XXVI- 
18. 



24 

DISEASE 


INDEX 


DISEASE 


Death by ‚Äî of the spleen. *XIV- 

18. 

‚ñÝ ‚Äî s* arising through wind and 
phlegm. XXl-65. ! 

‚Äî due to excessive heat. XIX' 17. j 
‚Äî due to phlegmatic disorder. : 

XXI-35 j 

‚Äî 8 to one‚Äôs elders or youngsters ! 
in the family, XXl'47. 

‚Äî 8 to relations. XXI- 14. 

‚Äî s to wife and children. XXI- 

:jrj. 

Ereedoiri from-^-s. XX I 31 ; 
XXYl II, 12. 

Eahu lias skin ‚Äî . 11-33. | 

The particular ‚Äî s causing the 
death of a person. XIV-12, 13. 
The-s caused by Mars. XI VM. 
33)0 ‚Äî s caused by Mercury. 
XIV-5. 

The‚Äî s caused liy the Moon. 
XIV- 3. 

The ‚Äî s caused by dnpiter. XIV- ^ 

G. I 

] 

The ‚Äî 8 caused by Saturn. XIV- | 

8. ‚Äò i 

The ‚Äî s caused by tlie Sun. j 
XlV-‚Äò2 I 

The ‚Äî s caused l)v Venus. XIV- : 

7. ‚Äò ‚ñÝ I 

The Gtli house is known as house i 
of ‚Äî . 1-13. 

Timn when ‚Äî s will happen. XX- I 

To ascertain one‚Äôs ‚Äî XV-J5, 23. 

To be alTlicted by a - relating to j 
the bowels V 11 1-31. ' 

To he free from ‚Äî . VI-11, 24 ; | 

Vlir-24; Xlir-24. | 

To bo liable to ‚Äî caused by wind | 
anVl fire. XXI 50.. | 

To ho tormented by‚Äî s resulting | 
from wind, heat and phlegm j 
XIX-24. I 

To 1)6 troubled through ‚Äî s aris- 
ing from wind and bile. XXI- 
82 . 


To become liable to ‚Äî s affecting 
the eyes. XXI-76. 

To cause ‚Äî ^in the stomach. VIII- 
30. 

To divine about one‚Äôs ‚Äî s. XIV- 
I. 

To have ‚Äî in the belly. XXI-22. 
To suffer affliction through ‚Äî 
VlII-9. 

To suffer calamity or ‚Äî . XXIV- 
42. 

To suffer ‚Äî s arising from a 
morbid state of bile and blood. 
XlX-20. 

To suffei ‚Äî in some limb. XXI- 
83. 

To suffer fi‚Äôoin a ‚Äî due to wind 
and bile. XX 1-3 2. 

To suffer from a poisonous ‚Äî ‚Ä¢. 

XXV- 17. 

To suffer from a terrible ‚Äî ‚Ä¢. 
XIX 21; XXl-38. 

To suffer from‚Äî. ilI-10; VIII- 
7, 25; XVI-4; XX-15, 17. 18; 
XXI-5; XXVI-9, 10, 19, 22, 
23. 

To suffer from ‚Äî arising out of 
the three humours. XXI-9. 

To suffer from ‚Äî arising from 
bile, lieat and blood XXI-13; 

XXVI- 13. 

To suffer from‚Äî s arising out of 
excess of bile and heat XXI-21 . 
To suffer from ‚Äî s arising from 
water. XXI 4. 

To suffer from ‚Äî s at a very 
early ago. IX-8. 

To suffer from^ ‚Äî -s caused by 
excessive lieat. XXV I- 16. 

To suffer from -- s caused by the 
three humours. XXI'41, 49. 

To suffer from ‚Äî of the spleen. 
XXi-77. 

To suffer from ear ‚Äî . XX-20 ; 
XXI-7. 

To suffer from eye ‚Äî XIV-10. 
Te suffer from ‚Äî ‚Äòthrough females 
XXI-8. 



INDEX 


25 

DISEASE DURUDKARA YOGA 

To suffer tlirough a‚Äî in the DISTRESSED. One of the 10 
private parts. XlV-11. Avasfcthas of a planet. 111*19. 

Trouble throinjh various kinds To he ‚Äî . VII [-22. 

of-s. XXT IG. DIURNAL UASIS. 1-8. 

DISHONEST. A woman to he‚Äî . DOOUAIENT. MO. 

XI-6. DOGS XXI D3i. 

DTSHONOITR. To he mentally DRAAfATURGY VI-27, 

afflicted owing to public ‚Äî . VD DREAAtS. X[V~5. 

10. ‚Ä¢ DRlRHvANA. IIM, 4, G ; IV 3 ; 

To suffer from ‚Äî . XX-20. XV'IDIO, 12. 

DISAIISSAT.. ‚Äîfrom an office. DREKKANADALA. IV-3. 

DRl'.SS. To- oneself hoautifully. 
DISOBEDIl^lNT. To bo‚Äî to one‚Äôs V 1 1 M 2. ‚Ä¢ 

. mother. XVTH 2. * DRIGBALA. TV-24. 

DISl^IiEASURlE Childlessness DRINK. Acquisition of food,--, 

due to the of one‚Äôs mother. XX [-48. * 

‚Äî .signifies tl)o 2nd house. T- 10. 

To incur the‚Äîof onejs sovereign. To !.>o a dealer in-‚Äî s. XV 1 1 1 ~2 
VIIT-3 ; XrX-5 ; XXl7. To come to gO'ief through ‚Äî in;i. 

DISEOSITiON. A woman to of XXI*41. 

be of a masculino‚Äú*‚Äú. XI-7. q^o command good food, ‚Äî .VI -40. 

A woman to be of a virtuous ‚Äî . have good food and‚Äî. XXI- 

XI-5, 10. I GO. 

Satuiii is of a slow . LD14. j I'o to intoxicating ‚Äî s. XX f- 
To be of a forgiving IX 2. | 40 . 

To bo of a good‚Äî. | drishtT. JV-9. 

10 he of a lOLUiheoiis ‚Äî . VL-¬´E ' , , 

DROOPING. To liavo one‚Äôs 
shoulders and arms *‚ñÝ . IX-G. 

DROWNING. Death by‚Äî. XIV- 
19. ‚Ä¢ 

DROWSINESS. XlV-8 
DRUGS To bo a dealer in ‚Äî . 
XViIl-3. 

DRUNKENNESS. 'To hc'disiin- 
guished by ‚Äî ‚ñÝ. XXV- 10. 

DUAL. X-5; XV I- 3. 

DUBIOUS. To bo -in one‚Äôs 
speech. Vni¬´25 

DUJTKHA. A designation for the 
12th house. I-IG. 

DUHKIIITA. One of ilte 10 
AvaSttlias of a planet. 111-19. 

DULL-HEADED. 1M4. 
DUPED. To ha ‚Äî by others. 

XXVI-9. 

DURGA. XIV-3. 

DURUDHARA YOGA. VL5, 7. 


To be wicked in VI-4. ! 

To have a base ‚Äî of mind. IX- j 
17. ^ i 

.To become bad in one‚Äôs‚Äî. XIX- 1 

21 . I 

DISPUTES. To become angry | 
through ~ Vi 11-12 1 

DISRESPECT. . To be treated ! 
with-. VI.IM4. I 

To suffer . VIII 15, 31. 
DISTANCES. To walk long‚Äî. 
IX-18. 

DISTRESS. ‚Äî through relations. 
XXl-47. 

‚Äî to one‚Äôs son-in-law. XX-18. 
Planets in certain Bhavas cause 
‚Äî . XV-2G. 

To be exempt from ‚Äî . XXV-IO. 

To cause ‚Äî to one‚Äôs motlier. XX* 
16; XXV 15. 

To endure much ‚Äî . VI- 33, G4 ; 
VIIM5. 



INDEX 


26 


DURVA * 


DITBVA. II-ll, 13. 

DUBYOCU. VI-57, 67, 70 ; VII- 

2 . ' 

DUSCriTKYA. A term to denote 
the 3rd house. I-l]. 
DIISHKBITI YOGA. VT-57, G4. 
DIISriKUlTYA. T-13. 
DUSBTTHA. 11-36. 
DUBSTTIIANAS. J-17; ;KIT-2 ; 
XV~9, JO, 20 ; XVl-IO, 14, 18, 
22.25; XX-](). 2-1; XXII 1- 
24. 

DiriT. Success in one‚Äôs moral ‚Äî . 
XXI-61. 

To 1 )o devoted to one‚Äôs ‚Äî ies. 
XVIlI-J;j, 15 ; XiX-G ; XXI- 
50. 


EIGHTH HOUSE 


DW ADAS AMS A: IIM, 4, 15 ; 
IV-3; XII- 33; XIII-U; 
XVII-4. 12; XVIIM6. 

DWADASI. XII-17. 

DWANDWA. I9;XIII-14. 
DWABABHA. 1-9. 

DWABEISII. To have a ‚Äîbody 

XXV-13. 

DWELLING. XIX-2G. 

DYEING. To be nn adept in 

the^of cloths. XVIII-2. 

dysentery. To suffer from--. 
Vni-6; XXVI-i3. 

DYUNA. A term denoting the 
7bli ] louse. 1-13. 
DYIISAM4NA. 1-8. 


E 


EAR. Left‚Äî . M5. 

" Right--, i-l ] . 

To have disease in the ‚Äî XX 1-7. 
To poss(',ss hig- ‚Äî s. LX 9. 

EAR DISEASE. 3\) suffer 
from ‚Äî . Vrfl 27 ; XIV-IO ; 
XL\-22; XX-20; XXl-23 
EAR-TROIT HLE. Re , one 
should ascertain through 
Jupiter. XIV-G. 

To suffer from ‚Äî s. VI C8. 


EARNING. V-9 

EARTH. 1D3, 27 ; VI-OG ; VI.H- 
IS ; XIV-.23 ; XVlJMo. 

EARTHEN JARS. To bo a dealer 


in--. XVIM-2. 

EASh‚ÄôAfENTS. Enjoyment of 
various--. XX I -80. 


EAST. Sign. 
EASTERN (} ^ 


orniug‚Äî . 1-9. 


EAT. The 2nd house signifies ‚Äî 
ing. I-IO. 

To be a voracious ‚Äî er. VHL22. 
To be over ‚Äî ing at other‚Äôs tables 
VnT-28. 

To ‚Äî much, XXV‚Äú8. 

To - 8 par i n g 1 V . i X - 1 . ‚Äû 
ECLIPSE. XXVI-29. 
ECLIPSED. IV-7 ; IX-9. 19 ; 


XH, 15; XTT-O, 19; XlIi-19; 
XVH;XV1-18; XX-il, 22, 
57 ; XXn-18, 20. 27 ; XXVI- 
! 32. 

; 1^', I LOCATION. To liave a good‚Äî 

1 all round. Vl-4fi. 

EPI'RGT. 7111-3*1,35: XV-.M, 

! 20, HR; XV11M7: XX-1,29, 

I 30, 37, .30, 43, 44, 48, 40, 51, 57, 
i GO, G3 ; XXT-1, 41, 84 ; XXll- 
3, 15 : XXI 11-1, 10, 12, 14, 20 ; 
XXlV-3!); XXV-G, 21, 25; 
XXVl-1, 5, 12, 13, 21, ,25, 30, 
32,35,41; XXVni-1-4. 

EKillTH IIOTISR. XII-4, G, 9, 
19 ; XV-3, 5, G, 7, 8, 9, 10, 18, 
19, 23, 2G; XYI 2, 11, 21, 34; 
XVU-1, 2, 3. -1, 5, 15, 16, 17, 
18, 19, 20, 23, 24, 26, 28; XX- 
9. 14, 18, 22, 23,29, 31, 32, 40, 
41,55; XXrV-8, 13, 15. 40; 
X\V-13 ; XXVI-2, 4, 6, 7, 8, 
10.15,19,21,22. 

Affliction of tlie ‚Äî in a female‚Äôs 
nativity. X 7. 

Death to be predicted through 
the elTect arising from the ‚Äî or 
the Navamsa Rasi occupied by 
the lord of the ‚Äî XfV-IG. 



INDEX 


EIGHTH HOUSE 


Effocfc of a malefic? in the - of a 
\voman‚Äôs nativitiV. XT-3. 

Etfecfc of t/he ‚Äî -being owned as 
also occupied by a malefic. 
XIV-20. 

Effocfc of 

Jupiter in fche ‚Äî VIII-15; 
XIV-Il. 

Kefcu in fche ‚Äî V 111*31 ; XIV- 

11 . 

Lord of fche ‚Äî in fclie 7fch. X-2. 

Malefics in depression in fclio ‚Äî . 
X-8. 

Mars ill fcbo‚Äî . YIll-0 ; XlV-11. 

Mercury in the ‚Äî . V11N18. 

Ilaliu in the‚Äî . VII LdO; XIV- 
II. 

Rafcurn in fche Vlll-dJ ; XIV- 
11. 

Tlie Moon in fclio - . VllT-7. 

The Run in the ' . VIII-3 ; 
XIV- 11. 

Manner of deafcli fco be guessed 
fcJu'ough fche . XIV- 12, 13. 

^loon afc birth attaining fche fate 
lul degree in the ‚Äî causes the 
death of the child soon. XII l-J. 

Period of happy life of a woman 
wifcli her husband depemls on 
fclie strength derived by the ‚Äî 
from bene ties. XI -10 

Weak Moon or a malefic in fcbo ‚Äî ‚ñÝ 
causes early death. XIJI-12. 

Woman‚Äôs xn‚Äôosxierifcy has fco be 
deducted from fcha-r. Xl-l . 

E K A D III PAT Y A li E D UCTION . 
XXlV-18, 19, 20, 21, 22. 

ELDEK. Adoration of ‚Äî s. XXI- 

7. 

Death of a reverend ‚Äî XX 1-68. 

Death of one of fche ‚Äî s XX-llh 

Demise of parents anib‚Äîs. XIX- 
26. 

Disease to one‚Äôs ‚Äî s. XXT-47. 

Favour from ‚Äî s. XIX- 10. 

Injury fco one's ‚Äî s. XXI-34, 46. 

Loss of--3. XXL22, 42. 

Sickness to-ps. .X*XI-10, 52. 


27 

‚Ä¢ENEMY 

To dos^iiso ‚Äî s. VI-66. 

To sulfer sc]rirafcion from 
one's ‚Äî s. XlX-22. 

Troubles arising from serious 
offences done fco ‚Äî s. XiV‚Äò6. 
Trouble from ‚Äî ^s. XX 1-76. 
Trouble fco one‚Äôs ‚Äî s. XXL24, 
25. 

EI.DER HUOTllER llfch house 
signifafs ‚Äî . 1-15. 

EliDEST HiUrrHEU. Death of 
ones---. XI -9. 

ELEPHANTS. *11-20 ; 111-9 ; V- 
7; VL2 1, 38, 18: VI 1-1, 6, 7, 
11, 19, 20, 21 ; XVI -13 ; XiX- 
11 ; X\l-I7, 25, 35, 60; XXU- 
.31 ; XXV-30 
ELEVA'i‚ÄôION. XX 9. 

LLEVEN rri HOUSE. VTM6. 
21,2- ; VI i 1-1, 7, 10.13.16, 

19, 21, 27, 33 ; X 5. 10 ; XH- 
1 : .\IV-I0; XV-7, 21 ; XVI- 
29 : a\- 12, 20, 25, 26, 36, 11, 
59; XXIV-38; XXV-13; 
XXVl-2, 3, 4, 5. 6, 7, 8, 11, .16, 

20. 21, 23. 

EEO'HIIXXOE. IM; XX-3. 
EEOgUl'lNT. To 1)0 ‚Äúin one‚Äôs 
speech. Vl-O; VHLi3; lX-9 ; 
XVI H E 

EM ANCi UATION XXVI 1-1 . 
EXrHARR..-\RSMENT. XXVI -10. 
I‚ÄôiMERAED. 11-29. 

EMlNlhNCE XX-2; XXT-10. 

‚Ä¢ EMO'L'iOXAL, Vl-16. 
EMPKKOJi. VI 4; VlI-13, IG. 
‚ÄòJ7, ‚Äò29, 30. 

EM PLOYMI'INT. .XXVI-22 . 

END IX 19. 

ENEMY. M3: 11-3,21; Xli- 
20 ; XXV- 1 2, 20. 

i - ies Vi-2, 11, IG, 33, 43, 39, 
GO, G3 ; Vri-8, 10, 12 ; Vili- 
15, IB, ‚Äò22,24, ‚Äò..:G, 30; IX-9, 12, 
17; XIV-2, 4, 9, 18; XV-23 ; 
XVI-IG, 19; XIX-20, 21 ; XX- 
7,10,23,25,28; XX 1-4, 5, G, 
7, 10, 13, 14, 20, 21, 22, 24. ‚Äò25, 
29. 34. 30, 45, 40. 47, 50, 52, 54, 
G4, go, 70. 71, 73, 74. 79, 82 ; 
XXV f-9, 10, 44, 17, 19, 3G. 



28 

ENERGETIC 


INDEX 


ENEKGBTIG. YIII-32. ‚Äò 
ENEllGY. II-3. 

ENJOY. YIII-33. 

ENJOYMENT. YI-18. 22,40, 03; 
Vni-ll, 21; IX-G; XIX-12. 
19 ; XXI 80, 81 ; XXYE21. 

ENEIYENING. XXY-21. 
ENMITY. XYE3I. 

ENTRAILS. XIY-G. 

E N ri ]\I E R A T 1 NG . Y L 27 . 

ENYY. XYI-31. 

EPILEPSY. XJY-2, 4. 

ECMJIYOCAIj. To be ‚Äî in one‚Äôs 
speech. YU 1-25. 

"ESTAELISHED USAGE. To fol- 
low the ‚Äî ‚ÄòYLGJ. 

ESTITI^IM. XXI 39. 

EULOGY. IL-4. 

EUNUCH. 11-27; XT-G. 

EVEN HOUSE. XY-IL 
EVEN HAS I, X-9. 

EVIL. XI -1; XX-41, 45, 50; 

XXV- 18, 19. 27 
EVIL ADVISER XXVH-5. 
EVIL COUNSEl., XX-IG. 

EVlli COURSE. Y1 11-21. 

EVIL DEEDS ‚Ä¢ XXI 40. 

E V I L-M IN L) ED. V H 1 22, 30. 
EVIL SPIRITS. XlV-4. 

EVIL TALK. XfX-13. 

EyiL TIDINGS. XX-15, 20. 

EXALTATION. IV-1, 2, 4; VII- 
i, 2¬ª G. 7, 10. l5, IG, 21. 22, 
2G, 27, 30; V HI-20; IX-I4, 
20; X-U ; XH-2G; XIV-22. 
25, 28; XV- 13, 18; XVI-2. 
27 ; XX-14, 25, 2G, 30, 34, 3G. 
37. 38. 5G. Gl; XXIMB. 20. 
23; XXin-24; XXV 30 ; 
' XXVr-31. 

EXALTATION SIGNS, I-G. 
EXALTED POSITION. XIX- 10. 
EXCELLENT QUAlTTrES.XD2. 
EXECUTIONER. V-8. 
EXERTION. It-1 ; y-9. 

EXIT. XXI-26: XXVIII-1-4. 


eyk 


EXORCISING. VTII-15. 
EXPENDITURE. XV- 24; XXL 
8; XXni-lI; XXV-14 ; 
XXVI, 12, 18, 24. 

EXPENSES. XXI-40. 
EXPERIENCE. XXI-33. 
EXTOLLED. VI-I ; VJI-9. 
EXUDATION. XIV- 7. 

EYE. XXVI-35, 3G. 37, 38, 39, 40 
A severe hurt to the ‚Äî XXI-4G" 
‚Äî trouble. XiV-2, 7; XX-15; 
XXl-38. 

'Inflammation of the s. XXT- 
18. 

dial's originates ‚Äî disease. XIY- 
4. 

Meiciiry brings on ‚Äî disease. 
XIV 5. 

Tlie IMoon represents tlie left ‚Äî . 
IL25. 

The right ‚Äî is signified by tlic, 
2nd house. I- 10, and is represen- 
ted by the Sun. 11-25. 

The Sun and Mars govern 
tho--s. IT-2G. 

The 12th house signifies the 
left I-IG. 

To have had-s. VI-59. 

To have cataract in the ‚Äî s. 
VIIl-1. 

To have defective ‚Äî siglit. 'VII 1- 
3, 4. 

To have deformed ‚Äî s. VIIT-IO. 
To have expansive ‚Äî s. IX-8. 

To have intense pain in the ‚Äî s. 
XXI-3G. 

To have reddish ‚Äî IX-5. 

To have round ‚Äî s. IX-l. 

To possess black ‚Äî s. IX-3. 

To possess very good‚Äî s. XI- 
12 . 

To suffer from diseases relating 
to the‚Äî. XIX-21; XXL22. 
52, 7G. 

To suffer from ‚Äî complaints. 
XXl-G, 40, 61, 63. 



INDEX 


EYE 

To sulTer from ‚Äî disease. YJTl- I 
‚Ä¢1, 33 : XlY-10 ; XYIII 7 ; ‚ñÝ 
XXYf 15. 

F 

FACE. Distribution of the stars 
on one‚Äôs and the oiTeots of 
transits of planets on thorn. 
XXYr-35 40. 

The 2nd house si^^nilies‚Äî . I-iO. 

To he deformed in one‚Äôs ‚Äî 

XXY-13. 

To liave a hi^^ ‚Äî. lX-2. 

To have a l)road-. Yr-2; IX- 
5. 

To have a long ‚Äî . TX-9. 

To liave an ugly ‚Äî . YlH-21 ; 
XX Y 20. 

To suffer from diseases in the 7 . 
YlIL-25. 

Yenus causes marks on the ‚Äî , 
ID32. 

FACl LUTES. To command all‚Äî 
for getting good materials. 
YlII-33. 

PACTOKS. Rasi and Planetary ‚Äî ‚Ä¢ 
XXlY-23, 24, 25. 

FAILING. One of tlie 10 Avast- 
thas of a planet. 111-19, 20. 
FAILURE. ‚Äî of one‚Äôs business 
XL-X-14; XXi-05; XXYI-2H. 

FAINT. . To look ‚Äî due to modes- 
ty. IX-f). 

FAINTING. Diseases arising 
from ‚Äî . XIY-G. 

FALL. A fall from one‚Äôs position. 

xxyi-3;l 

Death due by a ‚Äî from a height. 
XIY-18. 

To he hit by a ‚Äî . XXY-25. 

To have a--. XXY-24. 

Signs of ‚Äî . LG 

FALLACIOUSLY. To argue - . 
Vi-G8. 

FALSEHOOD. Influx of money 
through ‚Äî XIX-9. 

Rahu speaks ‚Äî . 1 1 33ii. 


29 

‚Ä¢FAMOUS 

Troufile to the ‚Äî s. XXI -54, 

G2. ^ 


i 1 

To earn one‚Äôs livehiici'^d hy 
uttering ‚Äî . V-2. 

To speak s. IX*1 ; XVI G,. 

I I'WME. Ac(iuisition of- . XXI- 
' 41,45. 

i It is from the Aloon, iliat one‚Äôs-- 
I should he ascertained. 11*2. 

Ketu in the 3rd iiouse confers ‚Äî 
on the native. V 11 1-29. ‚Ä¢ 

One whoso - has spread over the 
3 worlds. YL27. 

One‚Äôs - to he at the lowest ¬ª 
middling or highest. Yl-lS. 

The lOtli lion so sign i tics L 

15. 

To attain everlasting--. YIU- 
30. 

To be endowed with XYlTi‚Äù 

2 . 

To be known to ‚Äî . YLG. 

To get great ‚Äî through learning. 
XXf 57. 

To have-'. YLG;} ; Y1IL4 ; 
lX-i4. 

To liave - got in war. XXI-28. 
To have immense ‚Äî . Y 1 1/17, 
18. 

To have wide ‚Äî XIX G, 10; 
XXL82. 

FAMILY. YI-25, 4G, 55; YIIL 
12; XIlfB; XYL2, 5; 
I XYIIf-2; XIX-17; XX-3. G, 

15 ; XXMO, 40, 70, 7G. 

FAMILY EXTINCTION. XlL/h 
FAM 1 1 .Y /GRADIT IONS. YL 53 . 
FAMOUS. To become-‚Äî. YI 3, 
9, 15, 20, 42, 45, 47 ; YII-29 ; 
YllI-3, 9, IG. 27; XYL4 ; 
XVHLl. 

To hav0*a husband who is ‚Äî . 
XL3. 



30' 

FAMOUS 


INDEX 


FIEl^Y FITS 


A woman to become ‚Äî . Xi-6. 
FAN. IWl. 

FAR SIGHTED. To l>e‚Äî . XVI- 
*). 

FAST. To be‚Äî in walkin:*. IX- 

4 . 

FATAL DASAS. XX-24. 
FATIIi'IR. Acquisition of wealth 
from‚Äî. V-1. 

All about one‚Äôs ‚Äî should be as- 
certained through the Sun. 11* 

1 ; XV-lo. 

Death of a rekitive who was 
fMjual to a ‚Äî XXVI-23. 

[‚ÄòIxit of one‚Äôs ‚Äî if born under 
certain stars. XI II ‚Äò8. 

Exit of one‚Äôs father soon after 
marriage, if his wife is horn 
under certain fateful stars. 
Xl-h. 

3'lie demise of one‚Äôs ‚Äî soon after 
his birth. XV 122, 

Tdic house dciiioting the- -‚Äôs in 
ti\o Aslitakavarga chart. XXIV- 
l. 

ddie 8th iiuuse denotes 1-14. 
The i)lanets playing the role 
of---., 11-25. 

Time of demise of one‚Äôs ‚Äî . 

XVI 1-7; XXnF). 

Time when anything untoward 
to one‚Äôs‚Ñ¢", r)i- liis demise will 
happen. XXlV-2, 3, 4, (h 
To he bereft of ‚Äî . VII 1-24, 32. 
To ho moi-e munificent than 
one‚Äôs‚Äî. VI 11-15, 

To become a ‚Äî of twins. XVI hi- 
ll . 

To conjecture about ‚Äî ‚Äôs apj.)ear- 
anco prosperity, brothers, cha- 
racter, etc. XV-22, 23, 24. 

To guess the effects of one‚Äôs ‚Äî . 
XV-21. 

To guess all about one's ‚Äî 
througli the Karaka planet 
owning the Eliava. XVi-l2. 

To hate one‚Äôs- VI II ‚Äô4. 

To kill one's ‚Äî . XXV- 15. 

To shine Ixjtter than one's ‚Äî . 
VI-5L 


Yoga for the- ‚Äî of the native to 
live for a long time. XVI-23. 
FATHER‚ÄôS FATHERS XV 24. 
FATHER‚ÄôS SINS XIIIG. 

F ATH ERI. ESS. V I IM 0 . 
FATIGUE Vr-60; VIIMl ; 
XXVL9, 19. 

FATJliTS XXV'2G. 

FAVOUR. XIX-10. 
FAVOURITE. IX-9. 

FEAR. M3 ; II- 7; Vni-5. 21; 
XX-15; XXr-2l, 25, 40, 53, 
04; XXIIMI; XXVI-10, 12, 
13, 17, 20, 22. 20, 30. 37, 45, 40. 
FEARLESS. VI 11, 05; VIII-IO; 
XV 1-2; XVm-7. 

FECUNDITY. XhUH. 

FEET. lX-8; XXV 1-35, 30 37, 
38. 

i FEMALE. If 15, 17. 27; VI-15, 

1 01; V1IM8, 19; XM, 3; 

! XII-12; XIX-23, 25, 20; XX- 

j 5; XXl-8, 31, 78: XXIII-11. 

I FEAIAEE AMSA. XII-11. 
i FEMALE CHILDREN. XXL09. 
FEMALE IW. IT I ES. X I V- 7 . 
EEMAld4 GHOSTS. XIV~7. 
FEMALE H O RO SCOP Y. 
XXVIIM4. 

FEMALE PLANETS. IV-3 ; XTI- 
11 

FEMALE RASL XI 1-11. 
FEAIAl.E SIGNS. 1-9. 

E EAI A1 iE SOC I ET Y . X X I 4 9 , 

FERRY. XXL 19. 

FESTIVITIES. VI- 55. 

; FETTERS. TIL 13. 

FEVER. XIV-2. 5. 6, U, 18, 19; 
XlX-9; XXL3, 14, 34. 54, 55, 
00; XXVI II, 14, 15. 
FICKLE. IX-L 
FICKLE - MINDED. VI-50 ; 

XVIII 2: XXV-IL 
FIERCE. ILLl. 

FIERCE SIGNS. 1-9. 

FIRRY PITS XlV-5. 



INDEX 


31 


FIFTH MOUSE 

FIFTH HOUSE. VH 25; YHI- ! 

‚Ä¢ 3. B, 0, 12. 15. 18,22,20. 30: N- | 

1, 2. 4, 9 ; Xl-l ;‚ñÝ XIJ-J, 2, 3. 

4, 5. 0, 7. 8, 0. 10. 11, 12. 10. : 
21, 22, 25, 20, 27, 28, 29; XllI- ^ 
12, 13, 24 ; XIV-IO, 21, 27, 28, i 
20 ; XV-(i, 10, 23, 20, 29 ; XVI- I 
15; XX-0, 17, 10; XXIV-U): I 
XXV-11 ; XXVI-2. 3, 4, 5. 0,* i 
7, 8. 10, 14. 19, 21, 22. 

FRUIT. XrX-23 
FIUHTING. V-4 ; XVI 11-12, 
11, XiX-9, 18. 

FIETH. XXr-S. 

FINANCE XXV 1-23. 

FINE AMTS. 11-4. 

FIRE 11-3, [5. 27 : XiV-2, 4, 

5, 14, 17, 20: XlX-5, 9, 14. 

17, 18; XXl-21, 22, 20, 34. ! 

30, 38, 5), 54. 02, 70. 71, 79, ^ 
83 : XXV-17, 23. ; 

FIRM-MINDED. lX-5. 

FIRST HOUSE Vli-13, 19, 20, 
20 ; VHM, 5, 8. 1 i, 14, 17. 20, 
25, 28; X-2 ; XH‚Äò-0, 8, 25, 

.20,27; XI 1 M2, 21; XXVI- 

2, 4. 0, 8. 

FIRST MATURITY. Xll-34. 
FIXED SIGNS. 1-9; XVl-3. 
FEAVOIIRS. 11-31. 

FLESH. H 10 

FLOWERS. II 2, 0 ; IX-Il; XIU 
'21 ; XIX- 19. 

FO E. . V - 1 ; AH 50. Y;5 ; X\^- 1 5 ; 
XXV-ID 

FOOD. DIO: Vi-O,; VII U 14, 
29; 1X 0, 17; ,X1V-15¬ª XIX- 

7 ; XXl-14, 43, 00- 
FOOD AND DRINK. XXD14; 
XXVI 1-0. 

FOOL. VL-33; VII 1-25; XVD 
0; XVI H- 12. 

FOREIGN COUNTRY. Residence 
in a -. Vin-21; XXD27. 
FORFHGN FL-VCE. ViJT29; 

XX-19; XXVl-30, 37- 
FORE I G N TR A V EL. X X I -08. 
FOREl GNERS. XIV-20. 
FOREST. IM; VHl-3; IX-5; 
XIX-G. 


‚Ä¢ FRIENDS 

forest regions. xrv- 2 G. 

FORGIVING. lX-2. 

FORM. 11 8, 14 ; IX-Ul. 
FORMULAS. XXID4, 11. 13, 14. 
FORTUNATE VD' , 12. 27 ; 
VllDll; IX-IO, 12; X-3; 

XI-5; XV 1-2. 

FORTUN \TE 'MAN. VM. 
I'OR'rUNE About O!u0s ‚Äî . one 
ou^lit to divine from the Sun, 
XV H 5. 

Moon‚Äôs transit ovei the .lainna 
Rasi will cause dawning of 
XXVI 12 

To he hereft of VI 1 1-24. 

T.) take deli'^ht in (eujoyfng) 
othei-‚Äôs ‚Äî XIX 9. 

I'OS'PER lU-VTHER XVD25. 
FOUL MOUTHED. VI 11-10. 
FOUL-TONGUIH). Vl-33 ; XX- 
15 

FOURTH HOUSE. Vli-21.;‚Äû^ 
Vlli-2, 0,. 8, 11. 14. L7, 22, 25, 
29 ; X-1 ; XDL 4, 5 ; XIDO, 
7 ; Xm 24 ; XV-2 (h 22, 20 ; 
XAH-iO. IL 12, 13. 14, 17: 

‚ñÝ; XX 10 ; XXrV 4. 7, 9 ; XXV- 
i 11 ; XXVD2, 3. 4, 11, 7. 8, 9, 
i 13, 18, 21, '22. 

FRAIL. JX-7. 

FRAUD.. V-2. 

' FRIEND. Dll ; ID4, 21 ; V-1 ; 
XX 10. 

! FRIEND OF A KINO- -HDS, 10; 

! XVili-14. 

i FRIENDliY. XlV-25; XV-7 ; 

! XXI I r- 10; xxvoo. 

I Fiiil-^NDl.Y HOUSH. IY-7 ; 

I XIV -2‚Äòj; XV-IO. IS; XX- 14. 

FRIHXDLY Pli.ANFT. XX 00 
FHIJ'INDLY SKIN. XX-OO, .04, 

no 

FKIKNDS. Vl-Ol.On; VIIi-2, 
;i. 0 8, 10, II, 14, [9, 24, 25. 

I ni ; IX-4, 10 . 17; XIV-4 ; XV- 
! 1.0; XIX-IO, II, 21, 22; XXI- 

j 4, 10. 1.0, 10, 19, 2.3, 33. -34, ,37. 

42, 49', 51, 53, -59, 00 ; XXVI- 
1 11,18,21,22. 



32 

FRIENDSHH^ 

FRIENDSHIP, n-21, 22, 23', 35 J 
XIV-7; XVI-34; 
XX-4. 5; XXP48; XXYM9. 
FRUITS. 11-2 ; V-8. 

FRUIT TREES. V-2. 
FRUITEESS. YI-G7; XX-19. 
FUliFJLMENT. 1-15. 


GODS 


FULL LIFE PERIOD. XXII.31. 
FULLNESS. XY-18. 

FUME CLOUDS. XXY-2S. 
FUN. n-11. 

FUNERAL RITES. XYI-11 ; 
XXU5; XXYI-22. 

FUTURE P)]RTH. YI-24, 27. 28. 


INDEX 


G 


CAIN.- in one‚Äôs l)usiness XXI 11- 
11; XXY-2r>: XXYI-14, IB, 
17, 21, 24, 35, 30, 37, 38. 
39, 40. 

Infonnation r e g a r d i n g tlie 
fathoi‚Äôs ‚Äî s to he sought for 
from tlie 11th liouso from the 
Sun. XY-2L 

The lltli liouse signifies ‚Äî . 1-15. 

To have ])eeuniary losses and ‚Äîs 
JX-ll. 

GAIT. M5. 

CAM ANA. 1-15. 

GAMULER. Xi 3; XYiIL3. 

GAMBIilNG. IV) come to grief 
through XXL41 . 

To earn hy ‚Äî Y*2 ; 

GANDANTA. X1IL9,- 

GANDHA. 1L2B. 

GANDHARYAS. XIY 4, 5, 

GARIMIAPUA. 1-9. 

GARMLNT. 1 1-9, 10, 13. 3B. 

GARUDA. ILl^, 29 ; XI 1-20. 

GEESlIPATl. If- IB, 32. 

GEHA. Ml. 

GEMINI. Same as Afitliuna. 

GEMS. YL4B. 48; XlX-7. 12. 
20; XX- 20. 

GENERATING ORG.VN. XXYI- 
38. 

GENERATION. XXYL35, 

GENEROUS. TMO; YIF22. 

GENIUS. To conjecture about 
one‚Äôs owti ‚Äî . XY-IB. 


GENTLE. To be‚Äî YT-12. 

To he ‚Äî ^in speech. YI-31, 33, 

GHATA. A name for Sign Kum- 
bha. 1-7. 

GIDDINESS. ‚Äî is indicated hy 
duiiiter. XIY-B 

Mercury brings on deiith through 
‚Äî . XIY‚ÄôJ4. 

GIFTS. ‚Äî recommended for ward- 
ing off sins. Xn-23, 24 ; XX YI 
-49. 

To he liberal in one‚Äôs ‚Äî Yl-15, 
22. 24 ; YIII-B, 21 ; lX-2, 9. 

I Tf) take delight in making - XXI 
: -15. 

GIRL, Time of gift of a‚Äî .XI [-34. 
Ac(}uisition of good ‚Äî 'S. XX-3. 

GLAD. To he always - at heart. 
Yr-3L 

GLORY. TI-1; YM7. 
GLUTTON. To he a‚Äî. YI- 
B2. 

GO. P8, 12.^ 

GOATS. Acquisition of ‚Äî . XX- 
9. 

GOBLINS. Childlessness due to 
trouble from ‚Äî . XII-21. 

Saturn brings on harm from ‚Äî 
XIY-8. 

Trouble from ‚Äî ‚Ä¢ YIII 30 ; XIY- 
9. 

GOCHARA. XXYI-1. 

GODS. IL5, IG ; Y-G ; YL48, 
53 : Yin-1 ; TX-7 ; XT Y-G. 



GODS 

25 ; XIX-24: ; * XX-10 ; XXI- 
* 7. 23, 31, 41, 43, 45, 5n, 59, 72, 
80; XXn-32. 

GOD 8IYA. VI 29. 

GODDESS PAUVATl. 11-15. 
GOLA YOGA. VJ-39, 4l. 

GOLD. fM, 3.30 ; V-4 ; VI- 

34, 40; XVf;-l3; XVJU-9; 
XXM9. 00, 78 

GOLDEN OHNAMENTS. XXVI- 
13. 

GOLDSMITH IMS; XVIll-9. 
GONORUIIOEA XXI 55. ‚Ä¢ 
GOOD A term (ieiior,ing the lOth 
house. 1-15. 

To he extolled by fche~. VI-3. 
To he to ovei-y l)c)dy VI -09. 
To he supreiiioly‚Äî . VI 20. 

To do‚Äî -.lets. VIil-7, 13; XX- 
13. 

To do -^to others. XIX- 10 

To perform inauy ‚Äî 'acts XIl l- 
‚Äô 24. 

To slander the ‚Äî . YllI 32. 

To spend money towards i/he 
cause of the . XX -13. 

To stand in the way of any one 
doing ‚Äî acts. VIlL-32. 

Wherever Yamakantaka is asso- 
ciated, ‚Äî has to be expected. 
XXV-IS. 

Yamakantaka is very powerful 
in causing ‚Äî . X*XV-19. 

Yoga nob to do au 3 ^ ‚Äî act. VII 1- 
27. 

G(X)D ACTION. XXVI-23. 
GOOD BEIIAVLOIJR. 1 1 L-8. 
GOOD CONDUCT. 1-15 ; VIII - 
13 

GOOD DEEPS. XMO. 

GOOD EFEECT. XV-2, 3. 4. 
GOOD FOOD. II-2 ; VI-4G ; 
VIII-29. 

GOOD HEART. VI -53. 

GOOD HOUSES. XXIII-24. 
GOOD INFLUENCE XX- 30. 
GOOD LUCK, in-9; VI-G3 ; 
XV 111-2 ; XXM9. 


33 
GUHA 

I GOOD MEN. Coming in contact 
i witli ‚Äî .. XXl-39. 

I noOD-NATlTRF.D. XI -5. 

GOOD QUALri‚ÄôY. 11-5. 

~io¬´. 111-8, !), 15, 17 ; Vr-3I, 

51, (W : Yin-:i, 8, .-i:! ; XI 5, fl, 
7 ; XV1--1. 5, ‚Äò20 ; XVI 11-1 ; 
XX-1; XXl-r!<>. 

GOOD'SON. XXr-5!), 

I (iOOl) \VGK1)8. To 1)0 devoid of 
I . VI-5!(. 

GGI‚ÄôITJIA. rfl-7, B, 

GGIIJII YGGA. Vi -2 1,25. 

GOU 1‚Äô. 'Vo he troubled by ‚Äî ‚ñÝ. 
XIX-13. 

i GOVERNOK. To ho a-~^or Diie- 
! ctor. VI 22 

I GRACEFUL. To ho 111-12. 
i GUAH\RHED,V. --.Vdhvaya JI 
j (.IRAHA DRlSH'ri 11-23. 

I GHAHA FACTORS. XXIV-25r^ 
j 28. 

I GR.MIAGUNAKARA. XXlV-24. 

(IRAHA MANA. XXIV 23, 24, 

! 25. 

! GRAHA YUDDHA. XXVL29. 

1 GRAIN. 11-28; XIX 5. 

I GR.VND CIiriiDlbEN. XX-IO. 
j GR.VND FATHER. XV-IG. 
GRANDSONS. 1-14 ; VI- 15. 
GiUXVT MEN. 'Vo receive prai- 
ses from ‚Äî . X I X - 1 1 . 

To worship ‚Äî . XlX-24. . 

GREATNESS To have all the‚Äî. 
VlIl-12. 

GREAT PEOPLE. To he intent 
on hearing stories of ‚Äî . Vi 55. 

GREEK PAimUDGE. 11-17. 
GREEN II IJ 
GREEN GR.VM. 11-28. 
GREESHMA. II 24. 
GRIDDHRASYA. 111-13. 
GRIEF. in-I0;Vl-[7; VHI- 
18; XXI-24 ; XXVI-20, 38. 

39, 40 

GUESTS. To show hospitality 
to ‚Äî -at kll times. XX I -23. 

GUHA. Tl-27. 


INDEX 



INDEX 


34 

GULTKA ^ heat 

GTJLIKA. 11-26 ; 111-16; XIV- ; GUNA. 1-15. . 

9; XVII 2, 21, XXV-7, B, 9. , GTIIUJ. 11-22, 23, 24. 26, 2<B, 
lo/ll. 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 31. 

18. 19. 20, 21, 30, 

H 


HABITATION. To settlo one- 
self in ix permanent ‚Äî . XX- 1 1 . 

HAIR. 11 8, 9, 10. n, T 2 . 14 ; 
VllM. 

To have (mrled ‚Äî s. lX-3. 

HARE. To he‚Äî and healthy, 

xrv 17. 

HARO. XXV-2H. 

HAMMERS. To be a dealer in ‚Äî . 
XVllT-2. 

HAMSA YOGA. VRJ, 3. 
HANDS. 1X.8; XlX-23; XXVI- 
38. 

.HANDSOME. A woman to be 
very . X I - 1 0 
To he-- V)1I-14 
IIABFENINGS. XX- 19. 
IIAIM‚ÄôIRV. To ho placed in life 
XX-2. 

To live ‚Äî with one‚Äôs wife. VI IH 
29. 

HAFFINESS 1H2: Il-l, 6; 
lil-S, 11 ; Vl-3, 18, 36, 48, 61, 
63 ; VI.Il-2, 3, 8, 10, 13, 22, 29; 
lX-19; X-IO; XRl ; Xll-32; 

XV-22, 24; XVI-IO, 17; 

XLX-6. lO; 12. 13, 15, 16 ; XX- 

10, 12, 48 ; XXR12, 17, 31, 40, 

49, 57, 82, 83: XXIV- J3; 

XXV-8, 13; XXVl-9, 12, 13, 
17. 18, 21. 22, 23, 24, 

HAPPY. IH-10, 18 ; VI-4, 6, 9. 

11, 49,69,70; VTll-6, 8, 11. 

12, 13, 14. 17, 21, 25; lX-2 ; 
Xt 5; XVl-4, 24; XVHl-l; 
XX-36; XXV 1-19. 

HAPPY DEATH. X1V-2R 
HAPPY RIPE, Xl-U); XX- 11. 
IIARA. 111-6. 

HARASSMENT. XIX 26 ; XXB 

25. 


HARD- HEARTED. To be‚Äî. 
' VLli-2(;. 

HARD liABOUR. To be an adept 
in works involving . XVI- 
6. 

HARDSHIPS. To endure‚Äî . IX- 

2 . 

HARE. 11-17. 

HAREM. 11-16; XXl-28. 

HARR X 11-18. 

HARM XXVI-3R 
H.AlwSH. To ho ‚Äî in speech. 
VllI-12 

IIARSHA YOGA. VR57, 63. 
HAT‚ÄôED. To he ‚Äî by others. AHll- 
10, 16. 

HAUGHTY. VI 33; XVlIl-15. 
IlAYANGA 1-7. 

HEAD. 11-32; XVl-1 ; XIX- 
2!, XXI-IO, 11, 22, 77; XXVI- 
35, 36, 37, 38. 39, 40. 

HEADACHE. To siiilor froni-^ . 
XXl-6. 34, 61, 63. 

HEADMAN. To ba a-. AHTl- 
1 '.^. 

To be the ‚Äî ^of a village. Vl*4; 
V 111-27. 

To become a friend of a renown- 
ed‚Äî. Vl-63. 

HEADSTRONG. To be‚Äî. VI- 
52 

IlEAETH, n-2; XV-15 ; XX 7. 
HEAETHY. Vl-6; VlH-17 ; 
XVI- 1 7. 

HEARING. To possess clear 
organs of ‚Äî . VI-3. 

IIE.TRT. XlV-9; XV-15. 
HEART DISEASE. XlV-2. 
HEAT. XlV-17; X1X47. 24; 
XXl-3, 13. 21, 24. 68; XXV- 
23 ; XXVI-10, 13, 16. 



INDEX 


HEAVEN 

HEAVEN. VE^'V 
HEIK APPARENT 11-4. 

HEEli. XIV 22, 2:E ‚Ä¢ 

irEE]\ ‚Äî to Of from a brother. 

XX-4. 

‚Äî to J‚Äôciation^. XX-o. 

To Ijc --ful to otliers. VI-22. 

To ho ()[ louch- -to tho puhlio. 
XVI 5. 

HTyiThMATJA To ho tlis;trossoT 
ati:i wrotcluul 'vithout \voa.lth 
or -. XX\ 11 0 

HI'iNPECKED. To ho -. IX-I. 
11 EKES. II lo, 27 ; XVUl -iP 
111X1)7 no. Ii-22 ; XXV KI ; 
XXVI l-h. 

H17R17T1CAE. 'ho ho- VP41. 
]lEU]\.[Al:M]]iODI L'E. X-0. 
planets. 11-27 ; IV'-P 

HERNIA. XIV fl; XXP54. 
HEROISM. XVI-2S. 

IIUHTKA. M2. 

HlCCOEGll. IL-22. 

HIGH 17STT7E:\I. XMO. 
HKHPMTNDED. To ho - . VI fl- 
7. 

HIGH POSITION. To hold a--. 
VEIB. 51. 

lIIGH-SOITEEr). Tohe~. VE 
4.2. 

IIIELS. To go to forests and‚Äî. 
IX 5. 

HINDRANCE. To do -to others. 
IX- IE 

HIP. n-22. 
lilPS. Xi-5. 

HOARDED GOODS. IPG. 

HOLY ORDER. XXVIP8. 

HOLY S1IRIN17S. V-T. 
HOMAGE. VIPIO. 

HOMAS. II 1 

HOME KEEPING. lX-3. 

HONEY H-i5. 

HONOUR I-I5; 11‚Äî5; XIX- 
IG; XX 4, 19; XXM3, 20, 
28, 39, 44, 49, GO, 03, 64, 72, 
79. 81 ; XXVPll. 15, 20, 23, 
34, 38. 


35 

.HUNGER 
H{4X(*)IJ1;ED. To he XVP2. 

I‚Äôo he ‚Äî hy one‚Äôs own people. 

IX 15. 

To 1 k^ --f)y one‚Äôs sovereign IX- 
8 . 

i HORA. I 10 ; lU -E 4, G. 12. 15 ; 
j iv-3; xx-g;e 
! H()R\PAEALA. IVG. 
i-HORASARA. XXVHPPI. 
j HORNED. Danger fro‚Äôn -sini- 
nials. XlV-2; XXV-23. 

I H(>ROS(T)PE, XM. 

! IIGUOSOOPY .XXVHI-P4. 

I HOliSE. H-19; IIP9; VIM, 
7, 17. 21 ; Y-7 ; VI -38. 48 ; 

XVI 13; XiX-11, 24, 2G; XXi- 
17 25. .45; 44, GO ; XXH 31; 

X\V-3(). 

IP )RS17-1).\CK. To travel on ‚Äî . 
VI 24 

HORSE-GRAM. 11-28. 

HOSPlTALi L'Y \Xl-23, 
HOSTELIh VIIP25: XX-28. 
HOT WORDS. XXVM3. 

HOUR. IV-1. 

HOI^SE. Ml: HPS ; V1.2(), 
GG; Vm-2, 8. 17; XVM4; 
XVlH-5; XX-5; IG ; XXP 
II, GG. 

- s. JX-4. 5, 17 ; XV-1 1, 12. 

‚Äî loss. To‚Äô he ‚Äî . V 1 11-22 

HOUSE-EdlLDING. 'To he en- 
gaged in ‚Äî . XX 1-4 

HI. IE. I MO. 12; XVPl. . 
HUGE. 11-13. 

IHIM.AN PEINGS. Period of life 
for-. XII 1-7. 

To have one‚Äôs future hirth to ho 
that of a ‚Äî . XIV- 28. 

HOMAN 130DY. XXVl-35-41. 
HOMILIATTON. M3 ; Ii-7 ; 
VP5G; VnP3, G, 13 ; TX-t8. 
19; XX- IG', 18; XXi-G7; 
XXVMO, 11, 15, 17. 18. 

HTTMOURS XIV-4. 5, 7, 17. 
HUNDRED YEARS XII 1 -24. 
HUNGER. To hepincliod with‚Äî. 
VIIP23.‚Äò 



3G 

HUNTER. 


INDEX 


HUNTER. 11-20. 

HURT. XXr-73. 

HUSBAND 1-13,115; VI-15; 


IDliU. IM4; Vrn-12, 10. 

IDYA. 11-5. 

KINORANT. To be--. VUI-O. 

lliliS. KIV-9. 

IBl i- IHRI A VED . A woman to 
l)e - . XJ-0 

H.E-HEAETH. XXVl-lO. 

IkliNESS. XiX-lB; XKI 30, 
54; XXV [ 35. 

lEIi 'rEM[\ER. T.O display an 
abundance of ‚Äî . XXV-U). 

Hili-WrEli. XXVl-18. 

ridJISTRlOUS. To come of an 
--family Vl-25. 

I'MRARTlAlj. To be ‚Äî in one‚Äôs 
ar{.pmienfc. 1X*7. 

EM BASSIONEI). To speak in 
an ‚Äî manner, VI -30. 

lArUATiENT. To be--. ViiI-1. 

JVl‚ÄôEULMENT i-14 ; XXVI- 
0 , 17 . 

IMUiyrUOUB. To be‚Äî. VilM. 

liM UORTANClii. To be every day 
^rovviny in ‚Äî . Vf 45 

IMUORTANT BJRiRONAGE. To 
become an . XVni-13. 

iMivrruNOY. XIV-3- 

IMIVREGNATION. XI 1-34; XJII- 
2 

IMPRISONED. To be‚Äî. XX- 
15. 

IMPRISONMENT. MG ; XIV- 
5; XXl-79; XXV-24 

IMPROPER ACTS. To be weari- 
ed l)y fatigue caused by doing ‚Äî . 
VI GO. 

To do‚Äî. VIlI-9; XLX-25. 

IMPUDENk. To be‚Äî. Vlll- 
24. 

IMPURE. To be-. VMl ; 
Vm-32. 


INIMICAL 

' X-7, 8; XM, 2. 3, G, 7. 9, 

! 10. 11 ; X:V 21 ; XVI-20 ; 

XXV-12. 

HYPOCRITE. XXVI r-5. 

I 


To he‚Äî acts. VlIT-2r). 
rMPIJKlTY. T-U; 11-7; XIV- 
3,9; XIX-9; XXVI IS. 

INA. ir-Sh, 2fi, 2H 
INACTIYK. To ho‚Äî . YIlI-1,8, 

15. 21. 

To he most ‚Äî to do any work. 
YITI-J, 7. 

IN.AUSPICIOUS. XX-41; XXI- 
50. 

1 NCANTATIONR. XXYI-49. 
.[NCLINATION 1-15. 

I INCOdNlTO. To lead the life 
I ofan‚Äî . XX- 15 
INCOMP. 1-15; V-.3; VriI -24 ; 
XY-24. 

INCONSIDPIIATE. To ho‚Äî . VI- 
5G. 

INDEPENDENT. To be-. VI- 
G9. 

INDIA. XIV 25. 

INDIGENCE. To sulTor from ‚Äî 

I VI 11 -20. 

i INDIGENT To be--. IIM4 ; 
VT-41,GG; V Hi-24. 32. 
JNIRGESTION. XlV-3. 
INDOLENT. To be‚Äî. Vl-41 ; 

Vlll-20 ; iX-IO. 

INDRA. 1 11-9. 

INDRA-CHAPA. IV-5 ; XXV- 
5, 24, 29. 

IN DR A DH ANUS XXV-1 , 29 . 
INDU. 1 7; II- 17, 21, 25. 27, 

I 28,31,37. 

I IN EXTREMIS. 111-3. 

! INFANCY 111 3. 
i INFLIT ENCK XY-J5; XVI-27. 
I INIMICAL. VlII-2,- lX-20; X- 
j 8. 14; XI 1-9, 12. l9; XIII-19; 
! .XIY-25. 28; XV 1, 3, 6. 12. 

! 18; XYl-lI, 14, 18; XX-14, 



INIMICAL 


INDEX 


37 

. ITCHES 


27, 30, 35, 37, 38, 5G, 57; i 
XXn-20 : XXIIl-lO, 23 : I 

XXLV-IO; XXYI-30, 32. i 

INlMICATi FIOnSE. XXrV-3(). i 
INLAHCAL KASl. JV-7. 
INIMICAL SKIN X-4. ; 

INJlIiiY. A iiUlo to a p}*(3cep- | 

tor or oIdoi'¬ª XXl-I(L j 

Ciiiidlosr^ne'^s duo to an ‚Äî causajd ; < 
to a virtuous lady- XI 1-21 i 
‚Äî from lire. XX I -70. i 

‚Äî fi'oin poiscai. XX 1-22- 1 

‚Ä¢ ‚Äî to fatlior should i)e ^nios^od | 

fi-oiii the 0th hou.se from the ! 
Sun. XV-23. I 

‚Äî to one‚Äôs friends and elders- i 

xxT-34 : 

Saturn causes ‚Äî to tlie ril)s i 
XiV-s. ! 

To meet with ‚Äî from a weapon- ‚ñÝ 

VI r 1-31- i 

INSANirAUY. To dwell in‚Äî ' 
surroutidi nils* IX- IS- I 

INSANE. To 1)0- XXV-i5. j 

[NSANl'UY- Death through ‚Äî , i 
XjV-17. 

INSECT- 11*20. . '‚ñÝ 

rNSEGlTRn.‚ÄôY, XXVI 45, 40- ; 

INSICNIEICAN h. do he a j 
very ‚Äî man. VI- 17, hS, 07 ; i 
XVL5. ! 

INSINCERE, A woman to be ‚Äî . ; 

Xd-2 : 

INSni/r. I-14;X1X-14. I 

INSULTED. To i)e V 111-7. j 

INTEIMRUir. 11-33 ; Vl-2 ; Vlll, | 
2i; XX-2G; XX 1.-57. I 

INTHI.LECrU.AL PKKClSiOX. ! 

‚ñÝVMS. ! 

INTBr;LRCr[J.\l. PUUSUITS, I 
Xl.VI'J. I 

INTULLr-OBNCR. 1-12; Vl-59 ; j 
Vl-lL-4, i:i ; .KV-2;i ; XXV-Kl. j 
] NTBIiLl O J'lN'L'. 1112; 1 1 1-S- 

XM(), 27. ai ; virr-3, (1. 15 ; 
rX-4 ; xr-o ; .XVM5 ; .XVI 11‚Äî 
1; XXV‚Äî 8. 

INTRRCU.ANGE. VI-32. j 


INTHitGOUKSE. ‚Äîwith another 
man's wife, XX 1-30 
-‚Äîwith females. XX[-3l. 

To have ‚Äî with wicked women. 

XIX- 13. 

IXTERES'l‚ÄôS. To he intent on se- 
curing one‚Äôs own ‚Äî . Vl"'>2. 

IN rERlMiE riNO. To 1)0 clover in 

-- xvin-2 

IN I‚ÄôERRUIM'IONS. To have ‚Äî 
in one‚Äôs undertakings. Vl-33. 

INdTUCUES. To have ‚Äî with an 
aged female. ‚ÄòXIX-23. 
d\) have ‚Äî with had women. 
Vlll 18. 

T(.) have ‚Äî with low females XIX 

0 . 

d\> ha, VO‚Äî -with wicikotl women. 

XX- IS. 

d‚Äôo have -witli women not one‚Äôs 
own. VI -4. 

d‚Äôo lose one's v, ealt,h through ‚Äî 
w i 1 1 1 w omo n . V 1 1 i - 2G . 
IRASCIRLE. To be--. XVIII- 
15. 

IR.AVAdW. lli-RO. 

IRON. 11-7, 30 ; XViir-7. 

IRON INSTRUMEN rS. XVI 1 1- 
7. 

IRUEIilClOUS. To he-. VI- 
(*)(h 

IRIUTADLE. XXV-8. 
IRRIdWTED X.XVM). 
1SI.\NDS. Xf\'-23, 2^ 

ISSUE A woman whose ‚Äî will 
all die early. XI -5. 

The numhcr of ‚Äî one may liavo 
XXIV- 10, 1 1. 

To he blessed with or have no 
--at all. Xfr-I5, 
dV) determine the number of ‚Äî . 

XI [-13. 

To Imve few ‚Äî . Vf-?, 50. 
d\) have no ‚Äî VI-G2. 

To have limited--. VIII 2G, 
27; IX-G, 7. 

ISSUEI.ESS. To be‚Äî . X-5. 
ITCriES; XIV 5. 



88 

JACKAL 


INDRX 


JUPITER 


J 


JAOKAL. 11-18. 

JAlIi 11-7. 

JAT.ADIIl YOGA. VT-44, 48. 
JALODARA. XlY-14, 19. 
JAMITRA. I-J3. 

JANMA. MO; XXYU29. 

.TANMA LAGNA XXY-14. 

3ANMA RA81. 'X-IJ ; .XX-28. | 
08 ; XXYLG2, 18, 17. 18, 21, i 

22, 24. 

JANMARKSTIA. XXIMO. 

JAPA. 1-14 ; Xir-28. 

JATAKA. lY-2(). 

JATUA 1-12. 

JAlTXniCH XrY-8. 18; XXI-9. ! 
JAVA. M5. j 

JJL\ LOUSY. Time when one's ‚Äî I 
will arise. XYl-84. 

8.\)' suffer from XX-IS. j 

JULY .A. ‚Äî (amirial) Hasis. T-9. i 
‚Äî -(Jupiter), 11-22, 24, 25, 28. j 
JULY AN A. 1-15. I 

JLLYASAUMAN. XXII-20, 25, | 
29. i 

JLWJXiS. Ac?quisitioii of---XIX , 
-20 ; XX-8 ; XXJ 29. i 

Purcl]a,se or sale of-L XXr‚Äù19. 
To have good . Y1 11^17. 

To own , IX- 14. 

J 11 ASHA. 1-4. 

JNA. 1-7 ; 11-21, 22, 24, 28. 
JNATL I 18. 

JNLJYA DRIGBALA. lY-O. 
JOURNLY. XIX0;XXVl-9, 10. 
JOY. XXYM2. ; 

‚Äî sof life, Yl-7. i 

JUDGE. To be a‚Äî. VII [-12. i 
JUPITEK. II-5, 12, 16, 19. 22. I 

23, 2i. 25. 26, 27, 28, 29. 31, i 
32 ; VI 26, 28; XIIl-i8. 23. i 
21 ; XI V-6, 23 ; XV- 16 ; XVi -9; 
-Will 12. 

Ashtaka Yarga of ‚Äî . XXI 11-7; 
XXIV-10, 11. 


Aspect of ‚Äî is necessary for con- 
ception. XI IJ . 

Dasa period of--. XJX*2, 11, 
22 ; XXI-40. 41, 42, 43. 44, 45. 
40, 47. 

Elfect in ‚Äî 's latta. XXYl'45. 
Effect of Gulika lieing associated 
with ‚Äî XXY-IG. 

Effect of ‚Äî being in the 1st, 2nd, 
3rd or 4th liouso. YIII ‚Äî 14. 
.ElToet of ‚Äî 's Dasa hap^ienijig as 
tire sixth XX- 24 

Elfect of ‚Äî 's transit in tlio 3rd 
house from the Moon. XXYI- 
34. 

Effect of ‚Äî 's transit ovei* The 
several hous(3S from the Aloon. 
XXYl-18, 19, 20. 

Effect of ‚Äî 's transit over tdie 
12th, 8th and 1st from the 
Moon. XXYl-33. 

Elfect of Moon in - 's Trimsain- 
sa in a female horoscope. Xf- 
0, 7. 

J^hfect of Aloon in tlie several 
Ainsas as^xseted by ‚Äî . XYlll- 
12, 13, 14, 15. 

Elfect of Moon in the several 
signs aspected by ‚Äî . XYHl- 

0, 7, 8, 9, 10. 11. 

Effect of Mars conj ‚Äî ‚ñÝ. XYIII- 

3. 

Effect of Mercury conj. ‚Äî . 
XYllL-4. 

Effect of Aloon cotij. ‚Äî . XYni'2. 
Phfoct of Saturn conj,‚Äî--. XYIH- 

4. 

Elfect of Sun conj. ‚Äî . XYIII- 

1 . 

Effect of Yenusconj. ‚Äî . XYIfl- 

4. 

In producing effects, Y'omakan- 
taka is like . XXA^-20. 

In the case of a planet wliose 
Bhukti is good, the good elfect 
will be manifested when‚Äî 
enters (in transit) the planet's 
exaltation sign. XX-38. 



INDEX 


JUPITER 

In transit ‚Äî hocoines effoctivn 
when Jie is iii the niidditi of a 
sign. XXYI do. 

‚Äî arid aeiiuisition of children. 
XLl-1, d, 4, 5, (), 10, j.I, 14. do. 
d8. d9, 30, 

‚Äî and tlie Oloon in a Kendi'a, 
aspected hy Venus uslior,'^ 
King YII-IS. 

‚Äî if owning a Kendi-a, is powei- 
ful t(,) cause ecil. XX-o!). 

'‚ñÝ in a Kendra idcnlic;J wit.h 
Swalishetra or Swocheiia causes 
JTiinsa Yoga. Yl'.‚Äô-. 

‚Äú-in conj uncfdrin with i\lan(li in 
the otOi causes son-lessness. 
Xll-dd. 

‚Äî in the oth causes distress to 
the ])hava. XY dO. 

‚Äî in tiio Otli, Oth, 7th or tlie8th 
house. Ylil Jo. 

‚Ä¢ in the 9tli lOth, ilth or the 
Idth house. Yi i. i i 0. 

‚Äî *-in the Oth with liriglit rays, 
aspected hy or in eonjunctirin 
with friendly jilanets ushers a 
King. YU 1 4. 

‚Äî in tlie 7 til and in depression 
causes loss of wife. X-3. 

‚Äî in the Oth or sth causes con 
sumption. .XlV'li. 

‚Äî ^in transit gives good results 
in the dnd, 5th, 7th, Oth and 
J f tli from the Moon.X.XYl-d, 7. 
‚Äî is the Karaka of dnd, 5th, Oth, 
40th and lltii. ‚ÄòXY-U. 

‚Äî strong in the Eagna can ward 
off many of the evjls. Xi I l-dd. 
‚Äî 'Will hi'ing about death in a 
happv manner or through 
phlegm. X1YU4. 

‚Äî ‚Äôs Antardasa in Kata‚Äôs Dasa. 
XXI-7d. 

‚Äî ‚Äôs Antardasa in Mars‚Äô Dasa. 
XXI d3. 

‚Äî ‚Äôs Antardasa in Mercury‚Äôs 
Dasa. XXi 01. 

‚ñÝ''‚ñÝ‚Äôs Antardasa in the Moon‚Äôs 
Dasa. XXI-i5. 

‚Äú‚Äôs Antardasa in ‚Äî 's Dasa. 

XXI-30. 


39 

. 4UPTTER 

- ‚Äôs* Antardasa in Kahn‚Äôs Dasa- 
XXI 3i. 

‚Äî -‚Äôs .Antardasa in Saturn‚Äôs Dasa. 
XXI 50. 

‚Äî ‚Äôs Antirdasa in the Sun‚Äôs 
Dasa. XXI -7. 

- ‚Äôs Antardasa in Venus‚Äô Dasa, 
XXi MU 

‚Äôs aspecu. ovoi- the JMoon makes 
the cliiid longMived and happ\u 
XYl-d4. 

‚Äôs ( 1 rah I fac-l or. XXlY^dO. 

~ ‚Äôs ])osition i,n tlie general oi'der 
of pi ocedeneo in Dasas.X X 1 1 -d7. 

- - ‚Äôs special power 1 V-l 1. 

Ijord of l.he dnd if c.oiuieeted wffh 

maUes the native a prolicient 
in the sacred sc.riptures and 
code of laws. X\'l 0. 

Koi‚Äôds of the dnd, 7tli and Idth 
aspec.ted hy ‚ñÝ and ocou [lying 
'rrikona or Kendra positi.ons 
usher a King. X- 1 0. ¬´ 

Alars, Salmrii and‚Äî ipiarterod in 
the 10th, llt.h and the l^agua 
Will usl er a King \'U-d4. 

Naisargikadasa [leriod of X.Xi l- 
I 7 

One out of the lords of 11th, Oth 
and the dnd houses occupying 
a Kendra, wifh respect to the 
Moon an,d- -4iaj)pennig to own 
the dnd, 5t4i or Die lllli will 
uslier a Khrig. \'i l‚Äúd5. 

Partieular A'oga and the [los^tion 
of ‚Äî therein that Causes tlio 
native to attain ernancijiation . 
XXYI 1- 1. 

Pindavnnlayadasa porioil of ‚Äî . 
XXli-dl. 

Th(3 g(3od effect of a iffiava is 
realised when - -in his transit 
comes in ti'ine to the llliava. 
XYl-3d. 

The kill'd of asceticism caused 
by‚Äî XXYI 1-5 

The JMoon in the Amsa of a very 
friendly planet and aspected l>y 
‚Äî -will usher a King. YI.l‚Äùd3. 

The partkmlar division tn a Kasi 
of which is the lord in an 



40 

JUPl i'KR 


INDEX 


KESARI YOGA 


Ashtakavarga. NXIH- 1 8, 1 'L 

Tiie 6th asterism from fcliat of ‚Äî 
is termed his Forward Latta. 
XXVJ-42. 

The 3rd and 1 Ifch houses and ‚Äî 
if associated or aspocted l>y 
Satui'n and Mars will cause the 
native to suffer from ear- 
disease. xrv-io. 

Time of marriage guessed 
througii ‚Äî ‚Äôs transit. X-14. 

Transit hy ‚Äî over , certain si)eci- 
lied i)laces or their Trikonas 
l)i-ings about 

Oi) the demise of tlie native. 
XV 11-3, T 6, 1), 14. 16. 
22, 28; XX-32; XXI V- 

J3 


(h) the demise of the father 
and mother. XViI-7. 

(c) the death of the son. 
XVTDH. 

Venus aspected by ‚Äî or ‚Äî occu- 
pying a sign (other than 
Makara) identical with the 
Lagna will usher a King. 

vn-20. 

Venus, ‚Äî and Saturn in Meena. 
iVioon in Vrishahha. Sun as- 
pected hy Mars and Mesha 
as liagna usher a King. Vll- 
15 . 

When is in a Kendra, middle 
portion of the life is good. 
XX-33. 

JYFSIITA. Xr-9. 

.lYFSHTA BllKATKU. M5. 


MPMIAGA-'YOOA. Vr-35 3G. 
KAILASA. XlV-23. 

KAIiA. 11-2/ ; XXV-l. 4, 20, 21. 
KALA-CJJAKHA. XI 11 25; XXII- 
2. -1 ; XXVI ll-M. 

KALA-BAJiA iV-l.- 
KABAMSA. lll-l, 2. 
KAIiAraHUSHA, . 1-4 ; XVl-l. 
KALlNdA. il-28. 

KABlYlhiA. XXI 1-26.' 

K.VBYA. 1 10. 

KAMA M3. 

KAAIA Y0(;A. Vl-44, 51. 
KAMABA. 11-27. 

KANTAKA. 1-17. 

KANYA. 1-6,7; lV-5 ; IX-6 ; 
XM; XI I -3 ; XlV-18: XVllB 
8; XlX-26; XXlV-25. 
KABHA. I Ml. 

KAKA. r i2. 

KAIBAKA 111-17; XV-6, 17, 2l, 
25 ; XV1~8, 9, 12, 31 ; XX-54 ; 
XXIIMI, 15; XXVilM-4. 

The‚Äî s of the several Bhavas 
when posited in their reHj}ective 
Bhavas will cause Mistress. 
XV 26. 


I KAKKB 1*6. 7, 8. 

: KAKAIA. M5 ; lV-5. 

I KAKAIAJEBVA. V. 

! K.AKMAHKSllA. XXVI-26. 
i KAKTTKBYA. XII 20. 

1 KASIITA. Vl'18. 

; KATAKA. 1-1. 6. 8; IV-5 ; VII- 
! 16; Vill-i; lX-4; X-3 ; XI- 

7; Xll-5 ; XlV-17; XVI fl 7; 
XXll-12; XXIV-25, 

KAVB 11-22, 24. 

KBDARA. Vi-39, 40. 

KEBKATA 11-28. 
KEEN-WITTED. Vi-49. 

KEETA. I-/., 

KEAIADHUMA-YOGA. VI-5, 7. 

1 KENDRA. 117; IIBO ; IV 3 ; 
j VM, 5. 14. 19. 21. 26, 28, 35, 
i 37, 70; Vil-B 2, 6. 7, 11. 16, 
j 18, 19, 20, 25 2(), 27. 29, 30; 
I X-10 ; Xlii-9, 12, 15, 17,. 21, 
i 23, 24 ; XiV*20; XV-7. 30; 

! XVi-2, 16, 17, 21, 27 ; XX-33, 
I 41,42,45,46, 47. 49, 50, 51, 
j 52; XXV-30; XXVIM, 8. 

* KENDKABALA. IV-8. 

1 K ESAKI YOGA. YMl, 16. 



INDEX 


41 


KETU 


EETU. IMP), 20, 20. 27, 28, 20, 
34, 35, 37 ; [V-5'; Viri-28, 29, 
30, 31, 32, 33, 34: Xn-22;XIV 
-9.11,15,23; XV-10; XVD 

0, 28; X[X2, 17, 25 ; XX-52, 
53 ; XXI- 10, 18. 26, 34, 42. 5l). 
58. GO, 67, 08, 09, 70, 71. 72. 73, 
74, 83; XXV-1, 17, 25. 29; 
XXVl-2 

DKUMS. VI -38. 
KffAT.A. 111-19. 

Kll.M.A Y0(1A8. VI-32, 33. 

K 11 A HA. X-1. 

KII.VKAMSII. U-m. 

KH‚ÄôVA 14. YOdA VI-44, 54. 
KIHLPIH. XX-55* 

KlliMNC. XYin-12. 

KIND. VI 30 

KINDDY DISPOSED. VM2. 
KINDHEI), If-3. 

luNO. 11-17 ; IiI-8, 9, 10, 11, 
17 ; V-2 ; YI-3, 4, 0. 9, 20. 22, 
24. 27. .31 38, 40. 51, 55, 70; 

VIM, 2, 3, 4, 5, 0, 7. 8, 9, 10, 
11. 12, i 4. 15, 1 7, 18. 19, 20, 
21. *22. 23 25 20). 27. 28. 30: 
Vrir-3. 4, 9. 10, IP). 20, 24 ; 
IX 9, 1 1 ; Xl-7 ; XIIIA); XVI 
-2, 3. 27 ; XVU 3. 0. 7, 8, 9, 
10 II, 12; XIXO, 9, 15, 18; 
XX 0, 25 ; XXI 15, 25. 30, 08; 
XXV 17 ; XXV 11-7. 

KIND‚ÄôS ADVISER. V1IM5. 
KlNODOAl. 1-12; XX 25. 
KlNOSMiP. Ifl-9. ' 

KINNAHAS. XIV-3,P>. 
KINSMEN. XVII 1- up 


LABHA. 1-15. 
liABLAB. 11-28. 

LABOUR. Anything done by 
one‚Äôs own bodily ‚Äî becomes 
fruitless. VI~G7. 

LADY. Xn- 21 . 

LAGNA. I-IO ; IIMl, IG ; VI- 

G ‚Ä¢ ‚ñÝ 


. LAGNA 

KITH AND KIN. XX02; XXVI 
11 . 

KLPISA. 114. 

KNKES. IX -8. 

KNOWLBDGE. 11-4, 5 ; VI-18 ; 
XV- 10; XVI -5. 

KODANDA. XXV 1,11. 29. 
KODAYA. 1 8. 

KONA. ‚Ä¢XVl-2, 17, 27. 

KKATII. M5. 

KRiSHNA. XIMO. 
KRISHXAPAKSHA. lV-1. 
KK1T3'1KA. XL-9; XlX-2 ; 

XXI 1-7; X\Vi-2(i. 

KRIYA. f-P). 

KRUKA. 1 9 ; 11-28. 

KSIIA'PA. M3. 

KSIIATUIYA. 11-24; XIV-9. 
KSllAYA. M(h 
KsnE.MA DASA. XXIDIO. 
KSllETRA. Ml ; ilM. 

KSm riBMIJ. 11-32. 

KSIl rnSlITA. 11-24. 

KUBKRA. VMP). 

KUDUANYA. V-8. 

KUllU YOGA. Vl-57, 01. 

KUJA. 11-15, 22, 24, 27, 30; 
XXI P)2, 70. 78, 

KULIRA. 1-4. 

KITMAJiA. H 27. 

KUMBHA, i-7 ; rV-5 ; IX-11 ; 
XiV-19; XVm-11; lyXIV-25. 

KTJSEEDA. VO. 

KUTUMBA. 1-10. 


4. 14, 28, 35, 42 ; Vn-5. 0, 7, 
8. 10, 12, 13. 20, 24, 29; VJHr 
1 ; IX-P, 2, 3,- 4 ; X-1, 11, 12, 
13; XI-1. 2, 4, 5, 10. 11; Xil- 
1, 2. 4. 7, 20, 27, 34; XlTT-2, 8. 
12, 13, 14, 15, 10, 17, 19,20,21, 
22, 23, 24 ; XIV-28 ; XV-2, 3, 
4, 8, 9. IQ, 12, 17, 20. 21, 2G. 
28; XVM, 2, 3, 4, 5. 7, 11. 12. 



42 

LAGNA 


INDEX 


LIFE 


13, 16, 17, 18, 21. 27. 31, 33, 34. 
35 ; X^^II-2, 4, 5, 6, 9, 11. 12, 
17, 18, 19, 23, 25 ; XX-2, 15. 28. 
33. 34, 41. 59 ; XXTI-19, 21, 22, 
27, 28 ; XXin-12, 16, 18, 19 ; 

XXIV- 4. 13. U, 15, 38, 39, 41 ; 

XXV- 4, 8, 22, 26; XXVI-1 ; 
XXVIl-G; XXYirM-4. 

Effect of planets owning tlie 
decanafce , ‚Äî Ilora, ‚Äî Dwada- 
sarnsa and ‚Äî ‚ÄòTriinsarnsas occu- 
pying own, exaltation or 
friendly house 1,11-15. 

LAGNA DABA. XX1M7. 
LAGNA AYUB. XXI 1-19, 22, 25. 
LAQNA BALA IV-6. 

LAKSIIML IL27. 

LAKBllMI YOGA VI-21. ^4. 
LANGHANA. 11-32. 

LAND Ml ; XX-5, 16 ; XXL9, 
35. 46, 58, 72, 74, 78. 

LANDS. 1IL8; V-4 ; VT 66 ; 
VIII 72 , 8. 11, 29 ; IX-15; XV 
15; XVM4; XVI f 1-4; XIX-7. 
J3, 16, 19, 20, 24. 

LANDED PROPERTY. XXL21 ; 
XXV1.-16. 

LAPIBLAZULI. 11-29. 

LATTAB. XXVL42-44, 45, 46, 
47. 

LAUDATION. Vril-l, 

LAWS. To he proficient in the 
code of ‚Äî '. XVI- 6. 

LAZINESS. XXl-48. 

LEAD. 11-30,35. 

LEADI^.R. ‚ÄôVl-2. 

‚Äîof men. Vi-45; XVM3. 

‚Äî all ip. XX ‚Äî 4. 

LEAN. 11-9, 13, 34; IX-7 ; 

xvriM3. 

LEARNED. A woman to have a 
husband who is ‚Äî . X[-3. 

Association with the ‚Äî . XXL 
57. 

Mercury governs places frequen- 
ted by ‚Äî men. 11-15. 

To 1)6‚Äî. VI-3. 49. 55 ; VTII 5, 

11, 12, 14 ; IX-12 ; XVllI 6, 7, 
10 , 11 , 

To be praised by the ‚Äî . Vt-2. 


To get fame through the ap- 
plause of the ‚Äî . XTX-10. 
LEARNING. I-IO ; IT-4,5; VI- 
10, 18, 59. 65 ; VnU2, 8, 13, 
28; XV-15; XVIII-4; XXl- 
57. 

LECTURES. XX-3. 
l.EENA STTIIANAS. 1-16. 
‚Ä¢LEFT EAR 1-1 5. 

LEFT EYE. 1-16; IL25; XXI- 
27. 

LEFT HAND. XXVI-35. 

39. 40. 

LEFr LEG. 40. 

LEG. 1-16; 11-32; IX- 1,10 

XrV-8. 9 ; XV1:-3; XiX-14, 

23: XX [-10. 

‚Äî pain. XIX-25. 

LEfUTlAIATIl EXPENDITURE. 
V I '56. 

liENDlNG. V 6. 
liEO. Same as Siinlui. 

IJIPROSY. 11 33 : XIV-4. 9, 15; 

XX 1-9, 61 ; XXV-i6. 

LF/TTER. 1 10. 

LIAISON. Yogas lejiding, to a^ ‚Äî 
with othoi‚Äô people‚Äôs wives X-4. 
LIAR. Vr-62. 

i LIBERAl.. VI-9, 40 ; VIIT-2, 6, 

I 10, 21 ; lX-2, 9. 

I ‚Äî minded. XX-7. 

LIBERALITY. VMS; IX-14. 
LIBRA. Same as Tula. 

LIEE. XIII 3, 7 ; XXI 22, 42, 
53, 55, 61 . 

Danger to XXVI-27. 28, 33, 
34, 35, 39, 40. 

‚Äî period of a man. XX 1 1- 2(5 . 

‚Äî short, medium and long. 
XlIl-15. 

Rahu‚Äôs transit through the 8th 
i house causes danger to ‚Äî 
i XXVI-24. 

' The full period of ‚Äî in the case 
of different animals. XXll 31. 
To lose one‚Äôs ‚Äîwhen a plant 
transits a Rasi void of benetic 
dots in his Ashtaka varga. 
XXIIl-li. 



INDEX 


43 


LIGHT 


LIGHT, ir-15 

LIGHTNING. Danger from-^. 
XXM4. 

LIMB. TMLL3, 14, 34; VI 3. 

9, 11, 50; VriI-5, 8, 24, 20 ; 
IX-LIO; XIV 8; XYI-l, 2 ; 
XVIIMO; XIX-23; XXI-OG, 
73,83 ; XXV1-35-4L 
LIGN. I M2. 

LIQUOR IM5. 

LlSr*lN(L Tolu‚Äî. XVLG. 
LTUMIAKY WORKS. To bo the 
aiit-ljor of go(Hl ‚Äî XVIII'12, 
LT'riGATiON. XX 1-2 1. 

IjrT'IERS. To ba acconipainod 
by . Vl-38 

Lri''rLJT To know only a ‚Äî . 

XXVG 2 . I 

LIYLLIHOOD. M 5 ; Y‚Äô 2 ; j 

XXVI 11 1-4. I 

It irt Satni n that sol.l les a ' 
per.^onA ‚Äî . XY-lO. i 

37) asHiinie tlio drrss of an ascetic : 
.Co gain a - . XXYli-5. | 

To earn one‚Äôs‚Äî as a menial | 
YlU-15. ‚Ä¢ j 

Widening of the scope for ‚Äî . 1 
XXI*28. 

LIVER DISEASE. XIY-17. 
LIVING. 'To have a rnisci‚Äôabie ‚Äî . 
YL62. 

LOFTY- MINDED. A woman to 

hrt‚Äî . XL (5. 

IjOINS. To have round ‚Äî . IX- 

8. 

LOKA. T-13. 

LONG-LIFE To bo gifted with‚Äî. 
IIL-I2; Vl-2; V11L17, 29; 

Xll-32; XnL2L 
To enjov . VL43 ; VIII-5. 
LONG LIVED. To be‚Äî. HMD 
15; Vr-ll, 15, 16, 42, 45. 65; ; 
Vlll 4. 7, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16. 
18, -25, 26, 27 ; X1FL7, 16. 18; 
XVI-2, 21, 24, 27. 

LONG SPAN OF LIFE. To have 
a‚Äî. vni-2L 

LONGEVITY. 11-7; XITLl ; 
XV-23. 


LOPUS.LIKE 


J.OOKX 11-34; IX- 6, 

LORD. VL20. 34; VIIMQ ; 

lX-15, XVI 11-14; XXL74. 
LORD OE THE EARTH. To 
lieccnne tlio ‚Äî . Vi-36. 
liORD OF M14N. become a ‚Äî 
VI- 13 ; XVIIML 
l.OKDS OF THl'I SIGNS, L6. 
‚ÄòLOSS. MG. 

‚Äî in cattle and agricultural 
operations. XX I 74. 

‚Äî in finance. NXVI-23. 

‚Äî of children.‚Äô XI 1-3, 9 ; XXV- 
26; XXVL22. 

‚Äîof I^lders XXI-22, 42. 

- of friends. XX I -10, 42. 

‚ñÝ of house and coin. XXI-1 I. 

‚Äî of lands a,nd vehidos. XX 1-58. 
of life. X X I -55. 

--of money. XIX-19; X XL73 ; 
XXV 1-19. 

‚Äî of <.mi;‚Äôs appoinfiinent. XXI -78. 
‚Äî of one‚Äôs relations, lands, 

liappinoss and wealth. XIX- 
13. 

‚Äú-of position. XX-28 ; XX!.- 

10,32,54, 62, 73 ; XXV M3, 
IH. 45 46. 

-^of projicrty . and ‚Äî among re- 
vered seniors. XIX- 18. 

-- of rebitions. XIX- 14 ; XXL22. 

‚Äî of tilings connoted hy Bhuvas 
XV 1-30. 

‚Äî of wealth. XrX-2()/25 ; XXI- 
5. 8. 10, 11, 25. 47, 52, 69, 77 ; 
XXV I -9, 11, 12. 15, 16. 17, 22, 
24. 26, 33, 34, 35. 38, 39-40. 

‚Äî of wife, X-1, 7, 15; XXL 
37. 

To have pecuniary ‚Äî <38. IX-11. 
To meet with unnecessary ‚Äî as. 
IX-J8. ‚Ä¢ 

To sulTor ‚Äî ea. XXI-83. 

To suffer ‚Äî of honour. XX-IO ; 
XXLG3; XXVM5, 34. 

LOTUS-LIKE. To have a‚Äî face, 
VI‚Äú25. ‚Äò 



44 

LOVE 


INDEX 


MALEFIC POSITIONS 


LOVE. Information regarding 
one‚Äôa ‚Äî affairs XV-16. 

To be Exceedingly ‚Äî ly. VIII-6. 
To be exceedingly smitten 
with VIII-9. 

To be ‚Äî d by a beautiful damsel. 
VITI-6. 

To 1)0 ‚Äî d by all. VI 30. 

To have a - ly face. VI 11- 14. 

To have ‚Äî ^of relations. Tlf-iO. 
To know about one‚Äôs father‚Äôs‚Äî 
and x3assion. XV- 23. 

LOW. Even a ‚Äî born -to become 
a king. VI 1-7. 

To associate with tlie ‚Äî VI-10. 
LOW'BEHAVIOUH A woman 
to be of ‚Äî XL7. 

LOW-FEMALES. To have intri. 
gues with ‚Äî . XIX-9. 


MACHINATIONS. T r o n b 1 e 
through secret of enemies 
XX IG. 

MACHINERY. To bo skilled in - 
XVIIM. 

MADA. M3. 

MADHYA ‚Äî -Dasa, XX-GG. 

MADHYAMA. I [Ml; VMB. 

MADllYAMAYUS. XTII-G, 14. 

MACADHA. n-28. 

MACNANIMITY. IL5. 

MAGNANIMOUS. Vl-29; VITI- 
30. 

MAHABHAGYA. VM4, 15. 

MAHA DASA XlX-l, JO ; XXI- 
2, 7, 10. 11, IG, 20, 21, 23. 24, 
25, 29, 35, 3(), 37. 41, 42, 43, 
44. 45,40,47. 50. 51. 52. 54, 
60, 57, GO. Gl, G2, 03, G4, 65, 
GG, 67, 70, 71, 73, 74, 75, 79, 
80, &1,83; XXII-KL ID 13> 
15. 

MAHAPURIISIIA YOGAS. Tlie 
five "Stated. Vi-1. 

MAHA YOGAS. VL32¬ª 34. 

MAHEEJA. 11-3,10. 

MAilEYA. IU29. 


LOW MORALITY. To live by 
the earnings of men of ‚Äî ‚Ä¢. V-8. 

LOW ORDER. To be very in- 
significant and 6f a ‚Äî . XIV‚Äò5. 

LOW PEOPLE. II-7, 15. IG ; 
Vr-41. 62 ; IX-18. 

LOW WOMJilN. To resort to ihe 
society of‚Äî. XIX- 20 ; XXV- 
*16. 

TiUCARIA. XIV-2. 

LUCK. To have no‚Äî. VMO. 
LUCKY. To be very-. 111- 
17 ; VMS; X 7. 

LUNGS. XlV-3. 

LUST To he ‚Äî ‚Äôful and depraved. 
XXV. 8. 

To he without‚Äî XVIITH4. 

LUSTRE. To shine with Brali- 
miniual ‚Äî Vl-31. 

M 

MAFTLSHA. T-12. 

MAID SKHVANT. XI-7. 
MAKAKA. I-G, 7, H-; VlI-20; 

IX- 10; XlV-19; X^'-2y; 

XVIII-10. 

M ADAIM A] . FEVER. XIV-3. 
MAEAYA YOGA. VM, 3. 
j MADE‚Äî s. XIJ-11, 12 
I ‚Äî Navainsiis XII 10. 

I ‚Äî pliuiots. 11-27; IV-3 ; XII* 

I 11- 

I ‚Äî Signs. 1-9. 

MALEFIC. 11-27; XIV-11,20; 
XVI -4. (), 10, 10, 22; XX 23, 
51,51; XXI-4; XXII-19, 21 ; 
XXUI.14, 23, 24; XXVI-2G, 
27, 28, 30. 

MALEFICS. VII-ll , 24 ; X-2, 4, 
C, 7, 8, If) ; XI-2, 3. 4, 5; XII- 
2, 3, 4. G, 7 ; XV-1, 4, 6, 7, 10. 
18, 19. 

MAliBFTC PLANETS. XIII-9, 
12, 15, 17. 19, 21. 24 ; XlV-20; 
XY-2, 3. 8; XX 2C. 27, 30. 

AIALEFIC POSITIONS. XXIIl- 

10 . 



INDEX 


MALICE 

IMATjICE. To he free from ‚Äî 
Vi-29. ‚Ä¢ ‚Ä¢ 

‚ÄòMALfClOiTS iT-34. 

MAUN A. ML 
i\rAN. XXir.26, 31. 

MAN A. l-io. 

IMANDA. I G; 19-21, 30. 
.:\1AN])AI.A. XXlV-28. 
ArANl)TTKA(L\TI. XXll-lih 
AT AN 1)1. LIMG; Xll-S, 22;' 

XIV 9; XV 8; XVI i-7, 9, 10, 
n, 12, 13, 17, 2(i, 2S ; XX 

31, r>;3 ; XXV-1, 2, 4, 14, 19 ; 
XX Vi It- M 
ATANl^S Xil-lS, 20. 
AIAXdALYA. 1-14. 

AIANJIOOI). To lo.'^o one‚Äôs -. 
VItl-2G 

AtANlTTlIA. XXtL2L 
AfANNUiS. T () ]) o s s o s s 

ainiahle ‚Äî . Vl-0. 

AIANSK/N. To have a hoanti' 
fnl---. VI -48. 

AIAN1RA8. V-2. 5 ; XI 11-5. 

A1 ANTRESWAUA. 1-2 ; XXVI 1 1 - 

5. 

AtARAKA. XX-50. 

AlARANA. A t( 3 nn lor the Htli 
house. 1-14. 

AL\RC311ES To endure loiiij on 

roads. IX-ll. 

A4ARGA. 1-13, 

MARKS. 1 1-32. 

AIARRIAGE, i ufoi‚Äôinal.ion about 
‚Äîshould 1)0 .souglit loj‚Äú tlii'oii^di 
Venus. U-G. , 

‚Äî 'activities. XIX- 12. 

Time of ‚Äî . X- 1 2 , 1 4 . 

To perfoi‚Äôin ‚Äî 'S. XX-8. 

AlARROW. 11-10; X1V4. 

A4ARS. Ii-3, 10, 15, 18, 21, 24, | 
25, 2G, 2K, 29, 30, 31, 32; Vi-1 ; : 
XIl-l, 5. 10, 12, 11, 20; XIV-4, ! 
10, 1 L 14; 23, 2G ; X\TI-G. 

A wonuin in wiiose nativity the ; 
7(4i house or setting Xavanisa ' 
is owned by ‚Äî will have a dis- ' 
ejised womb. XI 4, 1 

About a brother, tlie elfects of : 
the 12 Bbavas are to be deduced ; 
counting from ‚Äî . XV-24 i 


45 

MARS 

( All. planets except ‚Äî io.se a third 
of their Ay ui day a when they 
are in inimical houses. XX ID 
19. 

Apahaia of in r]upito]‚Äô‚Äôs Dasa. 
XX1-4G. 

Apahara of in Aloon‚Äôs Dasa. 
XX M3. 

A])ahara of ‚Äù in Rah ids 1)asa. 
XX 1-38. 

A]iahara of- in Saturn‚Äôs Dasa. 
XX1-5L 

Aj)ah;i,ra of -in Sun‚Äôs Dasa. 
XXl-5. 

Axlitaka varf;a of- XX 1 1 1- 5. 

IGuu as for which- i.s a Karaloi. 

XV- 17. 

(V^rtain Rajayog'as formed l)y ‚Äî 
and other ]>lanets. Vll-9, iO, 
15, 24. 

Oonrage, disease, younger hro- 
tliers, et(3. ai'e to he ascertained 
thi‚Äôough--'. .XV- 15. 

Dasa of--. XlX-9, 20; XXf-*^ 
21, 22, 23, 2 1, 25, 2G, 27, 28 29. 
Dasa of - happening to ho the 
5th in tlui o)‚Äôdor of main Dasas 
will prove dangerous. XX -21. 
I‚ÄôlTect of (lulika t)eing in con* 
junction with ‚Äî . XXV- 15. 
Ei'fect of---he.iug cionnectcid with 
tlio lord of the 2nd. XVl'G. 
ElToct oT being in the several 
houses. V i i i -8, 9, i 0. 

Effect of ‚Äî in conjunction with 
Alercuiry, 4upi{oi> Venfis, or 
Saturn. XV III 3. 

ElToct (d' Aloon huiiig in a. Tiuni- 
saatisa of X L G, 7. 

Effect of Aloon in conjunction 
witli‚Äî . XV 11 1-2. 

Effect of Afoon in the several 
signs, Navamsa.s, aspL;c4,ed hy- . 

XVill-G, 7, 8, 9, 10 11, lii, 13, 
14. 15. 

In an ascetic yoga, ‚Äî makes the 
native an ascetic of the Bud- 
dhist class. XXV 1 1*5. 

Jn tiansit ‚Äî pioduces elfect when 
1)0 is jn ti)e first 10 degrees of 
a sign. XXVl-25. 



INDEX 


46 

MARS , MAYA 


Ketu is similar to ‚Äî in giving ; 
effects. VflI-34 i 

‚Äî arif] t;lie Sun in tlie 4th c&nse j 
the house of the native to he | 

l)urnt. XVi-l4* i 

‚Äî and tlie nuniljer of ])rothers j 
one may have. XV 1-0. j 

-‚ñÝ'in conjunction with the Sun | 
makes th(3 native do sinful j . 
deeds* XVill-l‚Äò . | 

- in tlie 0th and its lord, in a | 

Dusstliana or betwixt two male- | 
lies causefi the riendse of the | 
father soon after* the native‚Äôs i 
birth. XYI 20. ! 

‚Äú-jn the 7th house identical j 
with "Meena causes loss of wife, j 
X-:h ^ ! 

---in the lOth makes tlio native j 
ji gi'oal and mighty perstmage. : 

xvf'Os. ‚Äò ! 

' ‚Äî iri the Oi‚Äôd causes distress to i 
^ tlmt lOiava. XV-26. I 

‚Äî ‚ñÝ in transit in the 7th brings ' 
loss of lu)n(mr and wealth and , 
in most cases danger to life ' 
also. XXVf-;M 

‚Äî in transit in the I2t!i, Sth or ‚Äò 
tdio 1st house from the V(*on 
brings alxuit daTigei' to lilo. , 

XXV 1-33. ‚Ä¢ , 

‚Äî owning the Tiiigna occupying 
Simha or Meoiia identical with 
the htli liouse will give a sou : 
very soon. XV- 10. 

‚Äî -l)o.s'iLod in an Ihdhvamuklia , 
ilasi identical with the lOth or : 
11th will siHUire to the native a i 
Kingdom. XX-25. 

Menses of a woman is caused hy 
the aspect of t)ver the Moon . 
in Aiiupachaya positions. XI- | 
11 , * 
Rei3 - also under Kuja. | 

'Fhe effect of transit by'‚Äî {,>vor ; 
ihe 12 houses. XX VI- 13, 14. ; 
15, 16, i 

ddie (li‚Äôaha factor of ‚Äî XXlV-2() ‚Ä¢ 
The Moon in Saturn‚Äôs decanate ‚ñÝ 
and aspected hy ‚Äî and . Saturn ' 
will niake one an ascetic, i 


XXV n-3. 

The particular division in a -Kasi, 
of which‚Äî is the lord in an 
Ashtaka varga. XXI 11-18, 19. 
The particular houses whore 
when ‚Äî transits, lie gives good 
results. XX VI-2. 5. 

The two luminaries in trine to 
Saturn and ‚Äî cause tlie child to 
lie ahandoned hy both the 
jMrents. XAX-24. 

3'he years foi' the Dasa of ‚Äî . 
XiX 2. 

Tdie \*ears of ‚Äî under tlie Naisar- 
gika Dasa. XXI 1-1 7. 

To find the year of (ralairiity or 
disease from ‚Äî in the Aslitaka 
varga. XX IV -42. 

To guess the number of one‚Äôs 
brothers from the Aslitakavarga 
of‚Äî. XX1^^ 9. 

Venns and the Aloon in opposi- 
tion to ‚Äî and Saturn make the 
native wifeless or issueless., 

X-5. 

Venus in a VfU'ga of--or having 
Ids as]je(*t makes the native to 
have a liaison with other peo- 
ple‚Äôs wives. X-4 
MASA. 11-24. 

MASATA BALA. lV-1. 

AI AISCUI JNFj. a woman to be ‚Äî 
ill her hearing. XI -2. 

A woman to ho of a ‚Äî tlisposi- 
tion. XI -7 

AIATFUIAI.S. VIII 33; XXT-43 

81 . 

AlAI‚ÄôKRNAIi AIINIV The planets 
playing the role of ‚Äî . 11-25. 
AlA‚ÄôINKNAL ( i RAND-i' ATT! EE. 
The jilanet through whom one 
ought to guess about his ‚Äî . 

xv-in. 

M.VTKRNAL nNCdTX Ml; TI- 
4; Xm-8; XV-15, 21; XXTY-O. 
AlATRU. I-ri. 

AIATHIDlATTOATi lIAKTi. IM5 
MAI‚Äô8YA RIRvlIA. Vl-3. 
jMATULA Ml. 

MAXIMUM. XX-30. 

MAYA. XXir-2q, 24. 



INDEX 


47 


MAYOR 

MAYOR. VIir-20, 

AlEAEH VI-:]; XX-:]. 

MKANS IX-11. 

]\[[]ANACTS To.lo‚Äî . VI-r)2. 
AtECHANICAR ARTS. 11-4 : 
XVIll-l:]. 

AIEDIOINIA To Ciini ono‚Äôs liveli- 
hood t.in‚Äôou(|li . V-2 ; XlX-ih 
ArEDri'ATlON IE 1. 

AIIR)[n:\[ EiEE. VliEl i : XilE 
EE 17, IS. 

AIEENA. E4, d, 8; VIElA. 22: 
lX-12,- X-d; XIV-E); XV- 
10; XVIIT-El; XlX-ire.XNlE 

‚Äò1,12; XXrV-2f). 
AIIiNDIOAXT. XXVil-r) 
AlhiNIAL. A wuinaii to hen- ‚Äî , 
XEO. 

To he a -. VI -OS ; VI I Ell*,. 

To he dnidijinj.; fi4 ‚Ä¢ k VE7. 

To do w,ork. IX- 18. 

d'o earn one‚Äôs liA'uliiiood as a-~. 
VI lEio. 

MENSES. XEEE 
AIENTAI. A(iITA4TON. Sun‚Äôs 
t];!ii]sit in ''‚Äône oldi lu)US(3 
causers ‚Äî . XXV El 0. 

MENTAL ANOElSIl XlV-8: 
XlX-5, 20: XXlxiO, :17, 28. 
42. 47; XXV-2:]; XXVi-l1. 
MENTAL ANXIETY. Tiie Sun 
in transit in tlu; 0th house 
dispels all ‚Äî ies. XXVI 10. 

To suft'er from XX- 15. 
AIENTAl. DfCiNlTY. 1 1-:). 
MIXNrAL DISEASE XlV-5. 
AlENTAIi EAlRMNkiSS. XXVE 
:](‚Äô) 

AEliN'rAL PAIN. EEL 
MENTAL TRANQlLLldTY. 11-2 
AlliROflANDlSE XVII EE 
AIEJEJIIANT. 11-0. 

AIEKGIFEL. d‚Äôo be--^. IIEIO. 
MliRCllihNs‚Äô To he . lX-7. 
AIERGERY. IE4, 8, 11, 15. 18. 
21, 22, 24, 25. 20, 27, 28, 20, 
3L:12; VE1,20,2H; V11-J4, 
20, 24. 

.Ashtakavarga of . XXIIEO. 

Cause of sonlessness in the case 
of ‚Äî l)eing hadiy.plaecd. X[E20. 


MEREPRY 

Diseases brought on by-‚Äî. XIV* 

5 . 

! During transit, ‚Äî pro(luc(3s dlTect 
j tJu'oughouli his entire passage 
I in a Rssi. XXVE25. 

' IXToet oE--heing in conj unction 
i wilh the Hun and other planets. 

I XV Ml !, 2. 4. 

)¬ª I4rfe<*t of- In'ing posited in the 
i sovtu‚Äôal liouses. VIM M, 12, Ed. 

' E.tltu-t of ‚Äî (nvning th(‚Äò 5(41 lOiava 
i oi- it.s Amsa. XVEE5. 

I I'dTect of tli(j lord of tlio 2iul 
I Llcivii being I'oliitorl to---. 

I XVI 0. 

! Effect, of ( ho A]o(¬ªn iKung positjtel 
; in a Rasi owiu^d l)y in a 

! woman‚Äôs nativit y . XEO, 7. 

I E4T(.>cl. of tlie Ahxm bein!.; posited 
I in the sevoial Naviinisas and 

! asjHu-tcd hv--. XV 1 1.1- 12. Ed, 

j It, 15. 

! Effect of the Alotui in the soveraL ^ 
i signs ixnng as]¬ªected hv- ‚Äú> 

I XVMEO, 7, 8, 0, JO, IE 

I Effect of tu*ansit in ‚Äôs iatta. 

I XXVE45-4(;. 

I Etiects when -‚Äôs Dasais opera* 

I ting. XIX--I0, 24. 

1 5th house. ov,mcd by ‚Äî and as- 
' ])oct.ed h.y o^ associat(ul with 
! Alundi cu‚Äô Hat urn make the 
j native rnajuire a son by !idf)p- 
I tion Xli-H. 

i If (-Jiilikii ho associated witl; ‚ñÝ in 
I a natd.vity, tdie p<!rsr)n concQin- 
I (v1 will i>e insaiie. XXV-15. 

I In i)rfulucing elTccts, Aulha- 
j prn.hara is like ‚Äî . XXV -20. 

i --‚Ä¢indicates Vdiikunta as the re- 
I fnge of the departed XIV 2.d. 

j ‚Äî in theOtli idenldcal witli Kaia- 
1 ka will not give many children. 

j xii-r). 

‚Äî in the 7th identical wifdi 
Vvishahha (abuses loss of wife. 
X-:]. 

‚Äî in transit through th(3 4th 
brings about loss of honour 
' and wealth, and danger to life 
also. XXVE:]4. 



INDEX 


48 

M KRCURY 


‚Äî *8 Bhukfci in Japiter‚Äôs ‚ÄòDasa. 
XXI41. 

‚Äî ‚Äô4 Bhukfci in Kcfcu‚Äôs Dasa. 

XXI-74, 

‚Äî ‚Äô8 Bliukti in Mars‚Äô Dasa. 

XXI-^>5. 

‚Äî ‚Äôs Bhukfci in Moon‚Äôs Dasa. 

XXM7 

‚Äî ‚Äôs Bhukfci in Ihiliu‚Äôs Dasa. . 
XXKilB 

‚Äî ‚Äôs IMiukfci in Saturn‚Äôs ‚ñÝ Dasa. 
XX]. 49. 

‚Äî 's Jhmkti in Buki'a‚Äôs Dasa. 
XXl-82. 

‚Äî ‚Äôs J^liukfci in Sun‚Äôs Dasa. 

XXI- 9. 

‚Äî ‚Äôs Dasa and its Bhuktis. XXD 
57, 58. 59, no, 61, 62, 03, 64, 65. 
‚Äî ‚Äôs Dasa in the order of Dasas. 

XXI I- 27. 

‚Äî 's Graha factors. XX1V*26. 
Bowel‚Äô of ‚Äî in doiiif? evil. XX* 

51. 

The ugencv used by ‚Äî for causing 
dea{,h. XIV- 14. 

The ]4)ia.vas for which ‚Äî 'is Kara- 
ka. XV 17. 

The country in one‚Äôs past and 
future birtlis pertaining to. ‚Äî . 
XIV.26. 

The effects of tfansit hy --over 
tfie several liouses. . XXVI'17 
The kind of asceticism caused 
])> ‚Äî . XXV 11-5. 

Tho^ particular division in a .Rasi 
of whiclf ‚Äî is the lord in an 
Ashtakavarga. XX 1,1 1- 18, 19. 
The particular hsuses where ‚Äî 
during his transit gives gnod 
results. XXVI '2, 6. 

The 7fch Bfcar from that of ‚Äî is 
termed his Prishta Lafcfca. 
XXVl-42-14. 

Thv3 thing.s tliat ina^- be divined 
with respect to a person's life i 
l)y means of - . XV-15. ; 

The years for ‚Äî in the Nisarga- i 
yurdaya eystein. XXTI-17. 

The years foi ‚Äî in the Pindayur- : 
d a.y a s y stem . X X II ‚ñÝ 2 1 . ! 

Tiie years for the Dasa of ‚Äî . ‚Äô 


MISCHIEF 


XIX'2. 

To guess the number of maternal 
uncles from the Ashtakavarga 
of--. XXI V-9. 

Venus and ‚Äî in the 7th with 
Jupiter in the 5th and malefics 
in the 4th, lead to family extin* 
ction. XI 1-6. 

MERIT. To become a store of ‚Äî . 
Vi-9. 

To l iecome renowned f o r 
one‚Äôs ‚Äî s. VI" 2. 

MER1TOBJOU8 DEEDS. To 
]) 0 rform ‚Äî . XX- 10' 

IM ERR 1 M ENT. To have-- with 
relations. XX- 6. 

MKSHA. T-6, 7, 8, 9; IV*5 ; 
VII-9, .15; VTlf-l; lX-1 ; XI V* 
17; XVTIJ-G; XXIT-l, 22; 

XXIV- 6, 24. 

MESHURANA. 1-15. 

METAliS V-2, 4 : XVlll'-l. 
MET.1X3R. XXV'28 ; XXVr-29. 
iMlDDLE AGE. XllI-7. 
ATIGIITY. VII-29. 

MUjD. To speak ‚Äî ly. 1 IT-12. 
MIDITAITY. To get honour from 
tlie ‚Äî or Police. XX 1-81. 
MIDK. ID2; V-7. 

MIND. Dejection of the ‚Äî . 
XXVI- 13. 

Gross confcemptibleness of the‚Ñ¢. 
XXt-33. 

Perturbation of the ‚Äî through 
enemies XXV ‚Äî 26. 

To have a rubied ‚Äî ‚Ä¢ XrX-14. 

To have disturbance of -- XXT-18 
To have one‚Äôs ‚Äî can fused. XXVI- 
22 . 

MlNERAli SIGNS. 1-9. 
MINIMUM, --influence of plan- 
ets. XX‚Äî 30. 

IMINFSTER. M2 11-5, 17, 19; 
VI-42, 49 ; Vlil-6, 16,24; 
XVm-13, 14. 

MlNvSTRELS. To be praised by 
hards and‚Äî. VI-38. 
MISBEHAVE. XXVI‚Äî 16 
MISCHIEF. Ketu or Dhumaketu 
causes a lot of to the world. 

XXV- 29. 



INDEX 


49 


MISCHIEF 


Tob 0 ~ous. VI-41. 

, To -become unhappy as a result; 
of one‚Äôs own ‚Äî -ous- doings. VI* 
52. 

To do ‚Äî f.o others. VI*67. 

MTSHHABLK. To be‚Äî . \17 ; 

Vin J3; XYTIT 3; XXVM9. 

To have a ‚Äî living. VI 62. 

To lead a--lif 0 . XVIIM5. 

MISimLY To be vory-^. VIII- 
5, 14, 17. 

MISERY, Decrease of one‚Äôs ‚Äî ies. 
XXI-4. 

During tlie Sun‚Äôs latta,-^will 

‚ñÝ result. XXVf-15 ‚Äî -46. 

Effect of Upaketu in the 4th 
house is XXV-26. 

Houses witli dobs lower than 25 
will cause sorrow or ‚Äî . XXIV- 
37. 

One‚Äôs father‚Äôs ‚Äî should be deter- 
mined from the 8bh house from 
the Sun. XV-23, 

.One‚Äôs ‚Äî ought to be guessed 
through Saturn. 11-7. 

The planets engendering ‚Äî to the 
native. XX-55. 

The lith house signifies ‚Äî . I- 
16. 

To be afilicted with sorrow 
and--. VI 11-20. 

To be a receptacle of much ‚Äî . 
VI-66. 

To be free from ‚Äî ies XVI 21. 

To endure much ‚Äî . Vl-33. 

To expect ‚Äî XXI 58. 

To have much ‚Äî . XX 37 ; XXI- 
62. 

To leave the happiness or ‚Äî un- 
affected. IX- 10. 

To suffer incalculable ‚Äúies. XX- 
27. 

To suffer‚Äî. Vin-7 ; XIX-9 ; 
XX-20, 25; XXM3. 

MISFORTUNE. II-7 ; XIV-B; 
XX-lf); XXI-47. 

MISHAP. When Venus transits 
the Gth house from the Moon, 
there will be ‚Äî . XXVI~21. 

MISUNDERSTANDINGS. XIX- 
19. 21 ; XXI;5. 10, 32. 42. 66¬ª 


MOON 

67r 68 ; XXVM5. 17. 
MITHUNA. 1-7.8; 1X 3; XIV- 
17; XVllI-7; XXIV-24. ‚Ä¢ 
MITRA. Ml. 

MIXED. II 31. 

MIXED EFFECT. XV-2. 
MODEST. To be Ill-B. 
MODESTY. VI 18; VIII-2 ; 
XXV 8 

MOLES. II 32 ; IX-2. 

MONEY. V-6; VI-20, 69; VTII 
-33 ; IX-12 ; XVTIM ; XIX 
-9.19.24; XX.3. 13; XXl-7, 

21, 45. 4^, 7*2. 73 ; XXVI-17. 18, 
19. 2!, 22. 38 
Advent of ‚Äî s. XXVI ‚Äù9. 

Attempts of ‚Äîmaking. XIX-30. 
‚Äî -making by cruel acts. XIX-18. 
To bo‚Äî ed. Vm-24. 

To bo‚Äî less. XVin-9. 

To be robbed of one‚Äôs ‚Äî s. XXVI 
-23 

MONKEY n-18. 

MONTH. 11-24; IV-I ; NXIir-" 
22; XXIV 28. 32. 

MOOLA. Xl-9; XEII-S. 
MOOLATRIKONA. I-7;XV-11; 
XX 30. 

‚Äî Bhavana. TlI-6, 18. 

Mlasi. IV-7. 

MOON. 11-9, 15, 17, 21, 24, 25, 26, 
27, 28, ^9, 31, 32 ; 111-16, 17; 
Vi-4. 14, 15, 19, 28, 42; VII- 
5, 7, 10, 11, 12. 14, 15, 16, 17, 
19,21.22, 23.25.29; VIII 5, 
G. 7; 1X43; XI-1, 2. 4. 5, 6. L 
8, 10. 11 ; XIM, 2, 4, 5. 6. 7, 
12> 14. 15. 20. 22, 30, 33, 34; 
XHI-8, 9, 12, 13. 14. 15, 16. 18, 
19.20.23; XIV'3. 10. 11,14, 
23, 26 ; XV-8. i5. 17, 21, 24, 26; 
XV14, 6. 10, 11. 24, 31, 35; 
XVri 5. 6. 7, 11, 12. 17, 19., 20, 
25, 28; XVni4, 2, 6, 7, 8, 9, 
10,11,12.13, 14. 15. 16,17; 
XIX-2. 3, 7,8,19; XX-33,'36 
41. 51. 60, 61. 62; XXI-4, 12, 
13, 14,15,16,17, 18, 19,20. 29. 
37, 4¬£i, 53, 61. 69. 77 ; XXIMO, 
16, 17. 26. 27. 28, 30 ; XXni*4, 



50 

MOON 


INDEX 


NADIR 


4. 18. 19, 21 ; XXIV-7, 8, 30 ; 
XX'V45, 28; XXVI-1, 2. 4, 6; 
9, 12, 25, 34, 42-44, 45-46; 

XXVTI 3. 4. 5, 6. 

‚Äî ‚Äôs strength. IV-11. 

MORAL. Success in ‚Äî duty. XXI- 
64. 

MORALITY. Devotion to duty 
conformable to religion ' and ‚Äî . 
XXL59. 

To maintain oneself by the prea- 
ching of ‚Äî . VT). 

MORBID IRRITATION. XIV- 
4. 7. 

MOSQUITO. 11-20. 

MOTHER. A woman to lose lier 
‚Äîsoon after marriage. XL9. 
Acquisition of wealth from ‚Äî -. 

V-1. 

All about one‚Äôs father‚Äôs should 
be sought for from the 4tb 
house from the Sun XV -22. 
All about one‚Äôs ‚Äî sbould be 
‚Äò guessed through the Moon. 

XV- 21. 

All about one‚Äôs ‚Äî sbould be 
guessed through the Moon and 
the 4th Bhava. XV-25. 
CiiildlessnesB due to the displea- 
sure and anger of the ‚Äî .XIL20. 
Deatli of a child within tfie first 
four years is because of the ‚Äôs 
sins. XirL4. 

Death of the - very soon after 
birth of a child. XI 11-8. 

‚Äî ‚Äôs welfares II -2 
Tlie happiness or otherwise of 
one‚Äôs ‚Äî <lepends uijon the lord 
of the 4th and the Moon occu- 
pying good or bad positions. 

XVI- 10. 

The 4th house denotes ‚Äî . I-ll. 
The Moon determines everything 
about one‚Äôs ‚Äî . XV- 15. 

The planet playing the role of ‚Äî . 
ID25. 


Time of the demise of one‚Äôs ‚Äî . 
XXIV-7. ‚Äò . 

To be bereft of ‚Äî . VI-61 ; VIII- 
8, 22. 29. 

To be disobedient to one‚Äôs ‚Äî . 
XVIII-2. 

To be obedient to one‚Äôs ‚Äî . IX* 5. 
To cause distress to one‚Äôs ‚Äî . 

XX- 16; XXV-15. 

To live with one‚Äôs ‚Äî . Vni'l4 
To perform the funeral rites of 
one‚Äôs ‚Äî . XVT-11. 

To .satisfy one‚Äôs‚Äî s desires, 

XXI- 12 

MOTIONAL STRENGTH, ‚Äîof 
planets. IV-I. 

MOUNTAIN REGIONS. XIV 26. 
MOUNTAINS. XIX-G. 

MOUTH. 11-26 : VIIl-25. 

IMOV EARLE SIGNS. XVI -3, 25, 
26 

MRIGA. T-6, 7. 

MRLGASIRAS. XXIT-7, 9. 
MRfTA. ‚Äî Avastthfi Ii[-3, 10. 
MRITI YOGA. VI 57. 60 
MRITYU BHAGAS. Xlll-O, 10, 
11 . 

MUD VESSEL. IL35. 
MUDITA. - Avasttlia. 111-18. 
MULIFPLICATION XXII-20. 
MUHURTA- II 21;IV-20;XXV- 
2 - 

MULA. (Vegetable) ‚Äî signs. ,1-9. 
MUNIFICENT. To be more‚Äî 
than one‚Äôs father. VIH-15. 
MURDJRl. Xfl.22. 

MUSALA YOGA. VI 44, 56 
MUSCLE. 11-14. 

MUSIC. VI-40; IX-3 ; XVIII- 
4. 13 

‚Äî cal instruments yi-53. 

‚Äî ician. TI-19. 

MUTUAL ENMITY. 11-23. 
MUTUAL FRIENDSHIP. 11-23. 


N 


N.ADEE. 1-12, 


NADIE. 1-12. 



INDEX 


NAGARA.TA 


51 

NORTH-EAST 


NAGAEAJA. XIT.-IG, 18. 
NAIDHANA. MB- 
NAILS. IT 14; XXT-77. 
NAISAROIKA. - friendahip or 
enmity. 11-23. 

‚Äî hala‚Äò IV- 3, 

‚Äî ^Ayiirdaya. XXlI-28. 

NAKRA. 1-8. 

NAKSHAddlA DASA. XIX; 
XXYllI 1-4. 

NAKSHATRA MLTIIOD. XXTI- 
30. 

NAKSHATRA PADA. XXII-10, 
11 . 

NAMES. To have two‚Äî. lX-7. 
NARRATIVE COMPOSITION. 

To be skilled in . VI -27. 
NARAA'ANA To have in one‚Äôs 
body marks of God ‚Äî . VI-30. 
NATAL STAR. XXVI-2G. 
NA'riVE OOTTNTRY. To leave 
one‚Äôs-'-- Vn[-29. 

NATI VE PLAGIl. To have one‚Äôs 
‚Ä¢birth in his own ‚Äî . X1V''29. 

To live in his own ‚Äî . X.Vl-3. 
NA.TURAL ENMITY OR 
FRIENDSHIP. IV-10 
NATURAIi FRIENDSHIP. II- 
21, 22. 35 

NATURAL STRENGTTI. lV-3. 
NATURE. IX-13. 

The ‚Äî and characteristics of the 
several planets iII-8-14. 
NATURE OF PLANETS. II- 
8-13. 

NAVAMl. XI M 7. 

NAVAMSA. Ill I, 4, 11. IG; IV- 
3; VIIL34; X-11. 12, 14; 
XI-3, 4, 5; XII 13; X1IM3. 
14, 16, 19. 23; XIV-IG, 21, 23; 
XVM, 9: XVIM, 2, 3, 4. 5. 
6, 7. 10. lU 12* 13, 14, 17. 18, 
23,24.25,28; XV HI-12, 13. 
u; 15* 16, 17; XX-31, 32; 
XXII-L 18, 19, 22, 30 ; XXIII- 
13; XXIV-4, 8; XXV-14; 

XXVII-3. 

The effect of a‚Äî is equal to that 
of a Rasi. I II *2. 


NECK. To have a fleshy‚Äî. 

rx-4. 

To have a long face and ‚Äî . l*X-9. 

To have severe pain in the ‚Äî . 
XXI-Gl. 

NEECHA. I-G. 

N E E C H A B IT A N G A RAJA 
YOGAS. V11-2G-30. 

‚ÄòNEECHA GRI HA. 1-G. 
NEPHFAV. 11-4. 

NERVI^IS. Ml. 

NERVOUS DISEASES. XIV-ll- 
NEU‚ÄôrRAL. TL2I; IX-19; XIV- 
25, 28; XV- 18. 

NEWS Hearing of agreeable-^. 
XX-4. 

Good‚Äî. XXL79. 

I NIECE. IL4. 

; NJGAEA DECANATES. IH-13. 
I NIGHT. Vll-IG; XVlI-21,25; 
XXV-2. 

‚Äîbirth. XV 1-23. 

--blind. VllI-1. 

‚Äî signs. [-8; IV-G. 

-Time. IV- 1. 5. 

NINTH HOUSE. VII-9, 14. 25 
Vni-4, 7, 10. 13, IG, 19, 24. 27¬´ 
I 32; X-1,4; XI-1.10; Xlll- 
12, 24 ; ‚Ä¢XlV-24, 27. 28. 29 ; 
XV-G, 24. 26 ; XVM8. 22, 23, 
25,26; XX-10. 19. 46; XXIV- 
1 ; XXV- 13 ; XXVL2, 3, 4, 5, 
6, 7, 8, 11, 15. 20. 2J, 23. ‚Ä¢ 

NIPEEDITA. IIM9. 
NIRBHAGYA YOGA. VL57, 66. 
NISARGA DASA. XXTI-17. 
NISARGA MITRATVA. 11-21, 
22, 35. 

NIS-SWA-YOGA. Vl-57, 59. 
NISHEKA LAGNA. Xir-31. 
NOBLE. To he~. VI-36. 

‚Äî -family. 1-14. 

‚Äî minded. To be ‚Äî . IX-14. 

NOCTURNAL SIGNS. 1-8. 
NOOSE DECANATES. IIM3. 
NORTHERN SIGNS. 1-9. 
NOETH-fe.\8T. n-16. 



52 

NORTH-WEST 


INDEX 


PAKSHA. 


NORTH-WEST. 11-15. ‚Ä¢ XIV-4. 5. . 

NORTHERN QUARTER. 11-15. NRIYUK. 1-7, 8. 
NO&B. II 26 ; VIII-26 ; IX-3. 9 ; 


O 


OBEDIENT. To be‚Äî to one‚Äôs I 
mother. IX- 5. 

OBLAITONS. Offering^ of‚Äî. 
XIII-5. 

OBSCURE. To become-. VI-7. 

OBSBRVANOKS. To abandon 
one‚Äôs religious duties and ‚Äî . 
-XXV-13. 

OBSTACLE. 1-14; XV 1-21 ; 
XXVM8. 23 

OBSTINATE. To be-. XXVI- 
9. 

OCCUPATION. 1-15 ; XIII-8 ; 

, . XV-24. 

OCEAN. To earn by selling 
pearls and other produce of 
the-. IX- 12. 

ODD HOUSE. XV- U. 

01)1) HASI. XI 1 V ; XV 1-9. 

ODD SIGNS. 1-9; XI 2. 
ODIOUS. To bo -to otlmrs. 
VI 11 7. 

ODIUM. [t-3;IX.I9. | 

OFFENCE. XlV-b; XXl-Ol. ' 

OFEiCE. .Dismissal from an ‚Äî . 
XIX-14. 

OILS. XVIILS. 

OIL MONG ER. 11-20. 

OJARKSHA. 1-9. 

OLD. 11 9. 

OLD AGE. IM4. 

OLD CLOTH. VI-GG. 


OLD WOMAN. IX-10; XXI-48. 
OPEN AREA. IM5. 
OPEN-HEARTED. XVM5. 

OPPOSTNGLY. To speak‚Äî. 
VJII-27. 

OPPRESSING. A king - his peo- 
ple. VII-19. 

OPPRESSION. To earn by acts 
of-. V-4. 

OPUIiENT. To be‚Äî. VI-40. 
ORBIT. X-12, 13 ; XXIIM6. 
ORGANS. XXVI 35. 
ORNAMENT. 1-12 ; It-6 ; V-7 ; 
VI-2 ?, 3L 43, 61; XV-IG; 
XVl-13; XIX-7, 12, 19, 26; 
XXI-15. 17, 29, 43. 59. 75; 
XXVI- 13. 

-ed. XL2. 

OSTENTATION. XXV-10. 

OTHERS. Doing good to‚Äî. 
XIX- 10. 

To be interested in the work 
of‚Äî. XVIIl-l. 

OUTCAST. 11-24, 34 ; 

To bo an‚Äî. Vtn-28. 

To reside anjidst ‚Äî s. XVI ‚Äî -4. 
OVERHEAT. XIV 8. 
OVERPOWERING. To be-. 
XVin-2. 

OWL. TI 20. 

OYSTER SHELL. II-4. 


P 


PADMA REKHA. VI-3 ; IX-S. 
PAIN XIV-9; XXI-IL 29, 34, 
36, 52, 61, 73, 77. 

To hav^e a ‚Äî ful death. XIV- 


21 . 

PAINTING. To be skilled in‚Äî. 
xvni-5. 

PAKSHA. 11-24. 



INDEX 


PAK8HA BALA 


PAKSHA BALA, IV-1, 4, 21, 
PAKSHI DREKKANA. Ill- 13. 
PALANQUIN. VI-2.4. 38. 53; 
XVI-13 ; XIX46. 

PALPITATION. Bahu causes‚Äî 
of the heart. XIV-9. 

PAMABA YOGA. VI-57, 62. 

PAN A. I-IO. 

PANAPFIABA. I-I8 ; VI-14 ; 

XIIM5. 

‚Äî 'bala. TV-3, 

PAPA. 1-16; 11-27. 

PAPA KABTAUl. VL8, 11. 1*3. 

PAPA VAST. VI-8. 

PAPA VEDHAS. XXVI-43. 
PAPA VRSI. VI-8. 
PAPOBHAYACIIABI Vl-8. 

PAR. To bo on a ‚Äî with the King 
III-8. 

PARABEIAVA. 1-14. 
PARAMAYUS. XXTT-4. 14. 
P.Ul.VMA NBEGIIA. I-G, 
PARAMOCMCIIA 1-6. 
PARASARA. 1-2 ; XlX-1 ; XX- 
41; XXV.22 

PARAVATA, ni-7, 9. 

PARENTS. Ijoss of one of the ‚Äî . 
XrX-I8; XXI-3. 

Separation of ‚Äî . XIX-26. 

The pairs of planets playing the 
role of ‚Äî -during day and night. 
II-25‚Äû 

To be abandoned by both the ‚Äî . 
XVI-24. 

To separate from ode‚Äôs ‚Äî IX-8. 
PARIDHI. XXV-1, 5. 24. 

PARI, TATA. ‚ÄîVarga. HI -7. 8. 

‚Äî Yoga. VI-55. 

PARIVARTANA YOGAS. VI-32. 
PARIVBSHA. IV-5 ; XXV -5, 
24, 38. 

PARROT. 11-18, 19. 

PARTNER. To have a good- 
natured woman as one‚Äôs ‚Äî . 
X‚Äú6 

PARVA. XI-ll. 


53*: 

PERTURBATION 

PARVATA. 11-28. 

‚ÄîYoga. VI 35. 36. 

PARVATI. 11-15, 27. 

PASA DREKKANA. 111-13. 

PASA YOGA. VI 39. 40. 
PASSION. XV-23. 

PASSIONATE. VI-6; IX-l. 

PAST BIRTH. XLV-24, 27, 28. 
P.\T.\LA. 1-12. 

P.\T ERN AI. ( IRAN DP AT HER. 

XV- 16. 

PATERNAL RELATIONS. XV- 
15. 

PATERNAL UNCLE. 11-25. 
PATHA. XXlV-30; XXV-1. 
PATl. r- 13 . 

PATRIKA- T-IO. 

PATRONAGE. XVI-3. 

PAUTRA J-M. 

PEACOCK. 11-19. 

PEARL. 11‚Äî2, 29; V-3 ; IX-12.- 
PENANCE. l-U; II 5 ; XVIIt- 
13; XX I -64; XXVl-50; 
XXVJI-6. 

PENURY. XX-19; XXVI-37. 

To become‚Äî ious. Vl-7. 

PEOPLE. M3; VT-24 ; IX-6. 

X VI- 28 ; . XV^ ri-J 0 ; XIX-14 , 

XX- 4, 25^ 26. 

PERDITION. XlV-22. 
PERFIDIOUS. To bo‚Äî*. VIII- 
22 

PERFUME. M2; IX*-11 ; XIX- 
19; XXI-75. 

PERIL. ‚Äî to one‚Äôs own life 

XXI- 22. 

‚Äîfrom thunder. XXV-25. 
PERIOD OF LIFE. Xril-3. 7; 

XV- i6. 

PERIODS (OF TIME) SIGNI- 
FIED BY PLANETS. 11-24. 

PERPLEXITY. XXL58. 
PERSONAGE* To be a mighty-‚Äî. 

XVI- 28. 

PERTURBATION, ‚Äîof mind 
through enemies. XXV"26. 



54 INDEX 


PHALADEEPIKA. 

PHALADEEPIKA. 1 - 2 ; XXVIII- 
6. 

PHIaEGM. ri-9, 11, 13 ; XIV-6, 
8, 14 ; XIX-24 ; XXI-65. 68. 
PHLEGMATIC. IM2 ; XXL35. 
‚Äî complaint . XXI-23 . 
‚Äîtroubles. XIX-22, 23, 25; 
XXI ^8' 

PHYSICAL DEVELOPMENT. 

XV- 16. 

PHYSICIAN. 11-17. 
PHYSIQUE. To be of good‚Äî. 

XVI- 2. 

PIGEON. 11-19. * 

PILES. To suffer from ‚Äî . VIII- 

23. 

Trouble from‚Äî. XIX-23. 
PILGRIMAGE. o holy 
shrines. V^S 

PINDAYURDAYA . XXII-21 , 22, 

24, 28. 

PIOUS. Tobe‚Äî . VI-12. 
PIPTJLTREE. IM6. 

'Pisces Same as Meena. 
PITRU. 1-14; Vl-53. 

PITTA, II-IO. 

PITY. 11-14. 

PLACE. IX. 13. 

‚Äî of recreation. 11-4. 

PLANET. Badly placed--. 11- 
36. 

The nature and characteristics of 
the several ‚Äî ^s. Ih 8-14. 

Well placed‚Äî. 11-36. 

IV -1 ; IX. 14, 16 17, 18, 19, 20; 

X.5, 6, 10;‚Äôl3, 14; XI 3 ; XTV- 
" 1; XV-l, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12. 
13, 14, 18, 21, 30; XVM, 3, 4. 
10, 11. 12, 29. 30; XVII-17 ; 
XVIII-5. 15, 16, 17 ; XIX-1 ; 

XX- 1, 4, 5. 14, 15, 16, 17, 20. 
21, 22, 23, 24, 26, 28, 30, 31, 32, 
32. 34, 35, 37,38,39,41.42. 43, 
44', 46, 48, 49, 53, 55, 56, 57, 63 ; 

XXI- 1 2; XXn-2. 3, 13, 19, 
21, 27, 29; XXIll l, 2, 10, 11, 
12, 13. 14. 15,16, 18,19, 20. 21, 
22 ; XXIV-4, 5. 18, 23, 27, 29, 
30, 31 ; XXV-25 ; XXVI-l, 2, 
3, 6, 7, 28, 30,31,32,35-41,50; 


POTTER 

XXVII-1, 2, 4, 8 ; XXVIII-1-4.- 
‚Äî ary factors. ' XXIV-25, .26. 
‚Äîary war. XXIV-30 ; XXVI- 
29. 

‚Äî ary years. XXIV-27. 
PLANT. 11-15, 37; XIV-27 ; 
XVIII 3. 

PLEASANT. IIM2. 

PLEASING To talk in a ‚Äî man- 
ner. XXV-9 

PLEASURE. Information regar- 
ding love affairs and s. XV- 
16. 

To be a cause of immense ‚Äî to 
all people. VI-15. 

To undertake " trips. XX-8. 
PLOUGHS. XVIII- 2. 

POEMS. To earn a living through 
composing ‚Äî . V-6. 

POET. To be a-‚Äî. VHI-ll, 17 ; 

xvni-12. 

To be clever in---ics. VI-27. 

To be the chief of ‚Äî ^s. XVIII- 
13. 

To earn by one's- -ic talents. 

V- 7. 

POETRY. II-6; VI-27. 
POISON. XIY-2. 4, 5, 9. 15, 20 ; 
XiX-14, 21 ; XXI'6, 22, 30. 34, 
36. 54, 63. 79. 

POLICE. XXL81. 

POLICJ^: SUPERINTENDENT. 

VI- 42. 

POLITICS. To be clever in‚Äî. 
XVI-6. 

POOR. A woman to be ‚Äî . XI- 

2 . 

To be foremost among the ‚Äî ‚Ä¢. 
VL68. 

To be‚Äî. VI-11, 52; VIII-9, 
15. 17. 22; XVIII-6, 7, 10; 
XXVH4. 

POSITION. 1-15 ; VI-69 ; VIII- 
28 ; XX-15, 28; XXI S. 10, 32. 
38, 54 62, 63, 73 ; XXVI-9, 11, 
13, 18, 20, 22. 33, 45-46. 

POSITIONxVL STRENGTH, ‚Äîof 
planets. IV-1, 7, 21. 

POTTER. XVIII'4. 



POURNAMI 


INDEX 


POUBNAMI. XII-18. 

POVERTY. I'lf);* 11-7; ¬•1-33, 
58; Vlli 1 ; XX-18. 

POWER. IM; Hl-8; VP34, 
59 ; IX'15 ; XXI-46, 82 ; 

XX\M3. 

POWPRIFUL. VT-2. 20; VIII- 
5; lX-5; XX-7. 
PRAREIAKARL IT-25. 
PRADEEPTA. III-18, 20. 
PRADAKSTilNA. XXIM, 
PRAISE. A ‚Ñ¢by others of one‚Äôs 
v'arious good qualities. XX-4. 
To be ‚Äî -d by important people. 

‚Äô vriMo. 

To be‚Äî d by the good. V 11-22. 
To receive ~8 from great men. 
XIX-ll. 

PRANG NATIIAS. I 9. 

PR APT r. 1-15 
PRASNA. IV-20; XX 03. 

PR AST A^i A . ‚Äî Ash takavarga. 

XXIIMT 

PRAVAYA. III-.3, 10. 

PR AVR A J Y A YO( i AS. XXVI I ; 

XXVIll 1-4 
PRAVRITTL M5. 

PRAYER. 1-14; XIX-19; XXVP 
49. 

PRECEPTOR. 1-14; IMG; TX- 
. 8; XlX-14; XXI-39, 46 

PRECIOUS STONES. 11-29; IX- 
‚Ä¢14; XX-26 
PREDICTIONS. X 7. 

PRESENTS. Money through 
acceptance of ‚Äî . XX 1-72. 
Offering of acceptable ‚Äî . XXI- 
59. 

To be solicited by eminent men 
with various kinds of ‚Äî in their 
hands. VT-38. 

To receive rich ‚Äî from one‚Äôs 
sovereign. YI-34. 

PRIDE Loss of‚Äî . XX-16.^ 

To be distinguished by ‚Äî . XXV- 
10 . 

PRIEST. To earn money by 
playing the role of a ‚Äî . V-5. 


55 

PUBLIC 


PRISHTA LATTAS. XXVI-42- 
44. 

PRISHTODAYA. 1-8 ; XIV‚Äú22, 
27 ; XX-33. 

PRIVATE PxVRTS. XIV-7. 10, 
11 ; XX-18. 

PROFESSION. 1-15 ; V-1 ; 

XXVlJM-4. 

PROFIT 1-15; XXI-45. 
PROGENY. Xll-3, 24, 29; XXIV- 
12 . 

PROMINENCE. To soon come 
to~. XV 1-4. 

PROPERTY.* Danger to one‚Äôs--. 
XXV 1-20. 

To have self-acquired ‚Äî . VI-^. 

To lose all one‚Äôs paternal . VI- 

66 . 

spend away one‚Äôs paternal ‚Äî ‚Ä¢. 
VI 11-2. 

To suffer loss of XIX-18. 

Theft of ‚Äî by thieves XXI- 27, 
PROPITIOUS. To be-- Vl-3(). 
PROPORTION. The body ancf 
limbs of a person to be commeri' 
s urate in their ‚Äî s with the 
Lagna and other Rasis. XV 1-1. 

PROSPERITY. 11-5,6; VI-33; 
XM ; XV-9. 18, 19, 22 ; XVI- 
4, 8; XX'2, 7, 10. 12. 34, 46, 
47, 48, .62,' XXI-49; XXVI" 

17, 20,.2I. 

PROSPEROUS, VT-3, 9, 20, 27, 
42, 54. 65 ; VIIU7. 19. 27 ; XI- 
2,10; XX-45. 

‚Äîlife. XXl-44. 

PROSE COMIXISITION. To (Te 
clever in ‚Äî . VI-27. 

PROTECT. To -others. VIII- 

18. 

PROUD VlII-l, 25. 

PROWESS. 1-11 ; IU3. 
PRUDENT. To be--. VI-20. 
PSORIASIS. XIV-4, 5. 

PUBLIC. To be cursed by the ‚Äî . 
VL23. 

To be insignificant in the eyes 
of the‚Äî. VI -67. 

To be of much help to the^ 
XVI-5. 



56 

PUJA 


INDEX 


RAINBOW 


PUJA. 1-14. 

PULMONARY DISEASE. XIV- 

14. ‚Äò 

PUMAN EAST. 1-9. 

PUNGENT. 11-31. 

PURANAS. To maintain oneself 
by reciting ‚Äî . V‚Äô6. 

PURE. To be always‚Äî. III- 

15. 

To be VI-65. 


PURNABALA. , IV 22, 23. 
PURNAYUS. xilI-6. 
PURO-LATTAS. XXVI-42-44. 
PUEUSHASUKTA. XII-16. 
PURV ABH AG Y A. M 4. 
PURVASHADHA. XIII-8. 
PUSHKALA YOGA. VI-19. 20. 
PUSHYA. XI 9; XIIl-S. 

PUSS. XXVI15. 


Q 


QUADRUPED. Danger from‚Äî. 
XIV-2. 

Death through ‚Äî s. XXV*23 . 

‚Äî deoanates. 111-14. 

‚Äî signs. 1-7. 

QUALITY. M5. 
quarrel. XXI-37, 58 ; XXVI- 

.31, 36. 37, 45-46. 

A c (] u i s i t i o n of wealth 
through ‚Äî s. XIX-6. 

A tendency to always ‚Äî with 
one's sons and wife. XXI- 50. 

Cessation of ‚Äî s. XX-9. 

‚Äî caused by enemies. XXI-71. 

‚Äî with a great Biahinin. XXI- 
67. 

‚Äî with enemies. XXI-TT. 

‚Äî with one‚Äôs brothers, sons and 
friends. XIV*4 ; XIX'20. 

‚Äî witli one‚Äôff friends. XXVU 
11 . 

‚Äî with one‚Äôs own relations. 
XXI-35, 54; XXVI-14. 


‚Äî with one‚Äôs wife and children. 
XXVI-17. 

‚Äî with the members of one‚Äôs 
own family. XXI-70. 

To apprehend ‚Äî with enemies. 
XXI 66. 

To be drawn to a ‚Äî . IX-19 ; 

XXVMO. 

*To be found of promoting ‚Äîs. 
vr-23. 

To engage oneself in ‚Äî s. VIIL 
31. 

To promote ‚Äî . X1X‚Äú5 ; XVIII- 

12 . 

To‚Äî with one's friends. XXI- 
34. 

To with one‚Äôs wife. XlX-9. 

QUARRELSOME. To be~. VI- 
50; XXV-9, 12. 

QUARTER 1-9 ; .XlV-24 ; XXlV- 
12 . 

See also under ‚Äò Direction.‚Äô 
QUERY. XII-34 ; XX-63. 


R 


BAG. 'n-30. 

KAHitJ. II-IG. 20, 28. 29, 33. 34. 
35 : lY-5 ; VlII-25, 26, 27, 34 ; 
X-2; XII-22; XIV -9, 11, 16. 
23 : XV-8. 16 ; XVI-6, 14. 28 ; 
XVII-6, 22; XIX-2. 14. ,14. 16. 
21; XX-24. 31. 39, 52. 53; XXI- 


-6. 14, 22. 30. 31. 32, 33, 34. 35, 
36. 37, 38, 47, 55. 63. 71, 69 ; 
XXIV-42 : XXV-17, 20, 21 ; 
XX VI-2, 24. 25, 34. 42-44, 45- 
46. 

RAIN. XXV- 29 . 

RAINBOW. XXy- 29 . 



KAJAt^KA 

KAJANKA. 1-12. 

RAJAS. 11-22 23, 24. 27. 

RAJA YOGA. Vl<37,.38; VII- 
24 ; XX-54 ; XXVII-7 ; 

XXVIIT-14. 

RAJYA. 1-12. 

RAM. 11-18, 20. 

RAMAYANA. Xri-17, 

RAAIBLING. To have fruit- 
less ‚Äî XX-18. 
RAMKSWARAM. Xri-24. 

R ANDHRA. 1-14. 

RANK. 1-15. 

RASA. II-IG. 

RASH. Tobe‚Äî . VI-56 ; VlII-8. 

To commit ‚Äî -acts. lX-18. 

HAST. TlI-1, 2, 3, 4. G, 11, 16; 
IV-3 ; lX-13 ; X-U, 12, 13, 14; 
Xrn-9, 16, 23; XV-8 ; XVI-1, 
17, 31, 32; XVlI-l, 2, 3. 5, G, 7, 
10, 11 , 13, 14, 16, 18, 19, 20, 
21, 22, 23, 24, 25 ; XX-25, 32, 
36, 56. 57 ; XXH- 1 , 2, 4, 1 1 , 13 ; 
XXHM, 2, 10, 11, 12, 13, 22; 
XXIV 5, 12, 20, 21, 22 ; XXVI- 
9; XXVn-1; XXVTH-l-l. 

HAS! CHAKRA. XX[H-2. 

RASI GITNAKARA. XXIV-24. 
RASI-MANA. XXIV-23, 24, 25. 
R.ATIU SIGNS. 1-8. 

RAVI. 11-15, 21 . 24, 25 ; III-6. 
RAVI-SUTA. II-7. 

REALISATION, ‚Äîof one‚Äôs de- 
sires XXI-39. 

REASON. To have lost one‚Äôs ‚Äî . 

vni-22. 

RECREATION. . II-4. 
RECREATION GROUND. 11-15. 

RECTUM. Bleeding fro m ‚Äî . 
XlV-10. 

REDUCTIONS. XXlT-20, 25 ; 
XXIV-iB. 17, 18, 19. 20, 21,22, 
23. 28, 29, 30, 31. 

REFUGE. To ascertain the ‚Äî of 
the departed. XIV-23. 
REGIONS OF THE SIGNS. 1-5. 
REKHA. VI-3. 


I 

RELATIONS. I-ll ; IT-4; IH- 
10; VI-22, 40, 43, 48, 51, Gl, 
64;‚ÄôVin-2, 4; XMO ; XV- 15; 
XIX-9. 13, 14 ; XX-5. G, 10; 
XXI-5. 7, 10. 14, 18. 22. 35, 4G, 
47. 54, G7, G8, 70. 7G ; XXlV-9 ; 

xxv-ri ; xxvi:-i3, h. ih, 22, 

45-16- 

The. nearest ‚Äîsignified by Afars, 
Jupiter and Mercury.* 11-25. 
RKI.ATIVE. Deatli of a~-vho 
was 0(iua] to a father. XXVI- 
23. 

Harassment from ‚Äî s. X1X-2G. 
Honor to or. from ‚Äî s. XXL79. 
Sickness among ‚Äî s. XIX- 5. 
Time of death of the ‚Äî signified 
by a particular Bhava. XX;5H. 

RELIGION. Devotion to duty 
conformable to ‚Äî . XX 1-59. 
RJHAGIOUS BELIEFS. To be 
free from the ‚Äî of otliers. VI- 
29. 

RELIGIOUS DEVOTION. Suc- 
cess in - . XXI-G4. 

RELIG lOUS DUT i ES. Perfor- 
mance of one‚Äôs various‚Äî. 
XXI-80. 

To abandon one‚Äôs ‚Äî and obser- 
vances. XXV- 13. 

RELIGIOUS FAITH. II-5. 

RE LIGl OUS I N STRUCT I ONS. 

To maintain oneself by ‚Äî , V-G. 
RELIGIOUS MATTERS. To be 
interested in all ‚Äî . IX-10. 

RELIGIOUS MERIT. Loss of‚Äî . 
XXl-65. 

To ascertain all about one‚Äôs 
father‚Äôs ‚Äî . XV'24. ^ 

To be bereft of‚Äî. VIII-24. 
REMARRY. A woman to be 
got ‚Äî iod. X-8. 

A woman to ‚Äî . XI-3. 

To be the son of a widow‚Äî ied. 
XVIII-2. 

RENOWN. A king widely ‚Äî ed. 
VIl-1 ; XXV-30. 

To ascertain about one's father's 
prosperity and**^. XV-22. 

To become a‚Äî ed King. XX-25.* 


8 



68 INDEX 


RENOWN ‚Ä¢ 

To become‚Äî ed. VI-2. 9 ; Tlir 
6, 24. 

To Be highly-ed. VM6. 

To be ‚Äî ed for one‚Äôs virtues. 
VIIM6. 

To be widely ‚Äî ed. III-12, 15 ; 
VIII-12, 19. 32; XVI-27 ; XIX- 
15; XX-11 ; XXI- 51. 

To have a ‚Äî ed brother. VIII- 
14. 

EEPINTNG. A woman to be‚Äî . 
XI-B. 

REPROACH, n-7 XXM4. 
REQUIREMENTS. To be 
successful in obtaining all 
mie‚Äôfl‚Äî VIII-33. 

RESIDENCE. -in a foreign 
country. XXD27. 

To stick up to one's ‚Äî without 
moving anywhere. IX-15. 
RESOLUTE. To be‚Äî. VI-3. 
65. 

JRESPECT. A woman to be ‚Äî od. 
XI-6. 

To be highly ‚Äî ed. XXV-30. 

To be‚Äîable. IILS. 

To be ‚Äî ed by other men. VI- 
36, 49; XVITI-6. 11. 

To command great ‚Äî . XX- 11. 

To command intense ‚Äî . XIX- 
22 * ‚Ä¢ 

To command ‚Äî from the best of 
kings. VI-27. 

RETINUE. To have‚Äî. XIX- 
22 < 

RETROGRADE. IV-2, 5; IX- 
"20 ; XX-14, 87 ; XXII-18, 20. 
REVERENCE. 11-5. 

One that does not command ‚Äî . 
XXVID8. 

To be eager in showing ‚Äî to- 
wards those that worship God 
Narayana. VI-30. 

To have no-^-for Brahmins. VI- 
23. 

REVERED. Loss among ‚Äî seni- 
ors. XIX 18. 

To be highly ‚Äî by one‚Äôs soverei- 
gn. VI-12. 

To be‚Äî by all. XVI-27. 


ROAD 

REVERSES.* To be full of‚Äî. 
VIII-9. 

To suffer-. XX-17. 

REVILING. To be‚Äî others. VI- 
33. 

RHEUMATISM. To be troubled 
by-. XIX-13. 

RIBS. Injury to the‚Äî. XIV-8. 
*RICE. 11-28. 

RICH. To be‚Äî. VI- 2 ; VIII- 
5,13,16,18.19; IX-4;XVI- 
2. 5 : XVIII-12. 

To be happy and ‚Äî VI-11. 

To suffer trouble from the ‚Äî 
XIX-25. 

RICHES. A king endowed with ‚Äî ‚Ä¢. 
111-17 ; Vn-29. 

The 10th house signifies ‚Äî . I- 
15. 

To be devoid of ‚Äî . VIII-2, 3, 
28. 

To be endowed with ‚Äî . VI-65 ; 

Vlir-7, 10. 17. 

To have no ‚Äî . VIITTS. 

RICKJ^^TS XIV-7. 

RIGHT EYE. 1125. 

RIGHT HAND. XXVI-35, 36. 
37, 39-40. 

RIGHT LEG. XXVL39-40. 
RIGHTEOUS COURSE. Vl-53. 
RIHPHA. 1-16. 

RIKSHA SANDHI. J-4. 

RINA. i-13. 

RING WORM. XXI- 61. 

RISING DECANATE. XX-32. 
RISING SIGN. XIII 21 ; XVI-1 ; 
XVII-6, 14. ‚Äò 

RITES. To perform propitiatory 
‚Äî . XXVI-49. 

To rigidly observe prescribed ‚Äî . 
VI-29. 

RITU. 11-24. 

RIVALRY. Yoga under which 
and time when ‚Äî will arise to 
the native. XVI- 3 4. 

RIVER. 1-12. 

ROAD. 1-13; VI-48,64; VIII- 
9 ; IX-11. 



INDEX 59 

SANKHYA YOGAS 


V-G. 


ROAMING 


ROAMING. To be‚Äî arboufc. VIII- 

‚Ä¢ 22 *. 

To be ‚Äî on the roads iin perceived. 
VI- 64. 

‚Äî through forests. XrX-6. 

ROGA. 1-13. 

ROGUE. To be a‚Ñ¢. XVITI-9, 10. 
To deal with ‚Äî s. V-8. 

EOFIINI XXIM, 7. 8. 

ROOTS. To deal in‚Äî. V-8. 

ROSARIES. To be decked 
with-‚Äî. YI-29. 

ROUGH INSTRUMENTS. To be 
a dealer in ‚Äî . XVIII- 2 

ROYAL DISPLEASURE. To in- 
cur -- . XXVI-IO. 

ROY.^Mi FAMILY. VII-2. 4. 20. 

ROYAL FAVOUR. It is the Moon 
that determines ‚Äî . XV'15. 

To become prosperous through ‚Äî 
VTIM9. 

.To maintain one-self tln'ough ‚Äî . 


To receive--. XIX-19; XX-10 ; 
XXI-3; XXVI- 19. 

ROYAL HONOURS. To get‚Äî. 
XX-i3. 

ROYAi/TY. vrir-3. 

RUBY. TL29. 

KUCHAKA YOGA. VM, 2. 
RUDOy GOOSE, n-17. 

KUDRA. 11-27. 

RUDRA RUJA. XIM7. 

RUIN. ‚Äî of, every business. 
XXVl-45. 

To suiTer ‚Äî of one's business. 
XXV-25. 

RULE. To ‚Äî tlie entire world. 
XXV-30. 

RUiiER. VL15, 42 ; VrL25, 2G, 
28; VI 11-18 ; XIX-3. 

RUTiEIiS. Danger from‚Äî. XXL 

22 . 

RUPA. .1-10 ; 11-26. 


S 


SABDA 11-26. 

SACRED ASHES. To besmear 
one's body wdth ‚Äî . VI-29. 

SACRED PLACES To resort 
‚Ä¢to‚Äî XXI-23. 

SACRED PRECEPTS. To be 
skilled in the exposition of ‚Äî . 
VI-27. 

SACRED SCRIPTURES. To be- 

t come a proficient in the ‚Äî . 
XV 1-6 

To earn a living by the study 
of‚Äî. V-5. 

SACRED SHRINES. To be a 
traveller visiting ‚Äî ‚ñÝ XXVII- 
5. 

SACRED TEXTS. Disputation 
regarding the meanings of 
holy‚Äî. XXI-31. 

SACRED THREAD. Planetary 
positions at the time of the 
investiture of ‚Äî ‚Ä¢. XII-34. 

SACRIPICB. II-l, 4. 5. 


‚Äî ial rites. XXVIL7. 

SAFETY. XXVI-21,36. 

SAGES VLG. 

SAGITTARIUS. See under 
D ban us.. 

SAINTS. XXVIL5 
SAKATA YOGA. VM4, 17. 
SAKTA. One of the ttpa avasttbas 
of a planet. 111-18. 

SALTISH, n-31. 

SALUTED. An emperor to be ‚Äî 
by other kings. VII-30. 

To be saluted by eminent men. 
VL53. 

SAMA-(NEUTRAL). 11-21, 22; 

XlV-28. ‚ñÝ 

‚Äî(Yoga). VI-14. 18. 

SANI. 11-16, 20, 22, 24, 29, 31, 35, 
37. 

SANKHA. VI-3, 30. 

SANKHA YOGA. VI-37, 38. 
SANKHYA YOGAS. VI-39. 



INDEX 


60 

SANKRA.MANA. 

SANKRAMANA, XXYI-29/ 
SANTA. One of the ten Avastthas 
of a planet. II 1-18. 
SANYASAROGA. XIV-3. 
SANYASI CHIEF. 11-19. 
SAPHIRE. 11-29. 

SAPTAMSA. IIM, 2, 6 
SAPTASALAKA V E D H A . 
XXVI-26. 

SAPTAVARGA. 111-2 ; XX-59. 
SAPTAVARGAJA BALA, IY-3. 
SARALA YOGA yi-57, 05. 
SARASWATI YOGA. Yl-26, 27. 
SARAT. 11-24. 

SARAYATJ. XX-03. 
SARYASHTAKAYARGA. XXIII- 
20; XXTY-3L 35, 38. 

SARYATOBHADRA CHAKRA. 
XXYI-48. 

SASA YOGA. YI-1, 4. 

.SASIJA. H-18. 

SASIN, II-9, 24. 20. 28. 

SASI SITTA. TI-24, 25. 37. 
SASTiUS. 11-5; Y-0 ; IX-O ; 
XXY-8. 

SABTA. IMO. J7. 
BATABHISHA. XI-9. 
SATURN. YIl-4, 10. 15. 24; 
XIL4, 21; Xnt-18; XJY-8. 
K), 11, 14, 23. 20; XY-8, 10,17, 
20. 29 ; XYIM, 2, 0, 7, 10, 12. 
13, 15, 16, 17. 18, 21.23,24,25. 

23, 28; XXYlI-3. 4, 5. 

. Aslitakavarga of ‚Äî . XXIJI-9. 
Asbangata reduction does not 
apply to ‚Äî XXIL18. 

Bhukti of ‚Äî in Jupiter's Dasa. 
XXI-40. 

Bhukti of ‚Äî in Ketu‚Äôs Dasa. 
XXI.73, 

Bliukti of ‚Äî in Mars‚Äô Dasa. XXI- 

24. 

Bhukti of ‚Äî in Mercury‚Äôs Dasa. 
XXI-65. 

Bhukti of ‚Äî in Moon‚Äôs Dasa, 
XXI-i6. 

Bhukti of ‚Äî in Rahu‚Äôs Dasa. 
XXL32. 


SATURN 


Bhukti of ‚Äî in. Sukra‚Äôs Dasa. 
XXI-81. 

Bhukti of ‚Äî in the Sun‚Äôs Dasa. 
XXI-8. 

Dasa of-. XXI-48, 49, 50, 51, 
52. 53, 54. 55, 50. 

Demise of oneself, his father, 
mother, etc., to be guessed 
through the transit of ‚Äî ‚Ä¢. 
XXIY-2, 3, 7. 13, 14. 

During transit, ‚Äî bears fruit 
when in the last portion of a 
sign. XXYI-25. 

Effect of Gulika being in conjunc- 
tion with ‚Äî ‚Ä¢. XXY-16. 

Effect of Mars and ‚Äî in Kataka 
identical with the 7tli house. 

X- 3. 

Effect of Mars conj‚Äî* XYHHS. 
Effect of Mercury or Jupiter 
conj ‚Äî . XYin-4. , 

Effect of Moon and ‚Äî occupying 
the 7th. X-8. 

Effect of Moon conj. ‚Äî . XYIII- 

2 . 

Effect of Moon in the several 
Navamsas being aspected by ‚Äî . 
XYlIl-12, 13, 14, 15. 

Effect of Moon in the several 
Basis occupying the Trimsamsa 
of-. XI-6, 7. 

Effect of Moon in the several 
signs being aspected by ‚Äî . 
XYIII-G, 7, 8. 9, 10. II. 

Effect of ‚Äî and Mars occupying 
each other‚Äôs Rasi or Amsa, and 
the Tiagna, Moon and Yen us 
being also associated there. 

XI- 4. 

Effect of ‚Äî being in the 4th 
house. XYI'l4. 

Effect of ‚Äî being well* placed and 
aspected bv benetics in a night* 
birth. XVl-23. 

Effect of ‚Äî in the 8th house. 
Yin-23. 

Effect of ‚Äî in the 4th, 5th, 6th 
and 7th houses. YIII-22. 
Effect of - in the Lagna. Yin-20. 
Effect of ‚Äî in the 9th, lOfeh, llth 



SATURN 


INDEX 


61 

SATURN 


and 12th houses. VITI-24. 

Effect of‚Äî in the* 2nd and 3rd 
house. VTII-21. . 

Effect of the Sun conjunction ‚Äî 

xviir- 1 . 

Effect of the Sun and jMoon being 
in trine to ‚Äî and ^lars. XYl- 
24. 

Effects of transit by‚ÄúOver the 
12 houses. XXVI-22, 23. 

Effect of the lord of the 2nd being 
connected with ‚Äî . XV 1-5. 

Effect of Vc-nus and the 5foon 
being in opposition to ‚ÄòjMars 

‚Ä¢ and -. X-5. 

Effect of Venus conjunction ‚Äî . 
XVII E5. 

Effect of Venus occu])ying a 
Varga of ‚Äî or having the aspect 
of‚Äî. X-4. 

5th house, owned by and aspec- 
ted or occupied by ‚Äî or ^landi 
causes tlio native to have a son 

‚Ä¢ by adoption. XI 1-8. 

Full life-period of a man is the 
time taken by - to make three 
eoinplcto revolutions. XXil- 
26 

Guiika IS similar to ‚Äî in produc- 
ing effects. XXV -20. 

If the 4th Dasa belongs to ‚Äî , it 

‚Ä¢will prove dangerous. XX-24. 

Latta of ‚Äî . XXV 1-42-44. 

Pindavurdaya years f o r ‚Äî . 
XXIl-21. 

Ilahu is similar, to ‚Äî in giving 
effects. VnT-34. 

Rahil, ‚Äî and Ketu in the 10th 
make the native do sinful and 
wicked acts. XVI-28, 

‚Äî and the Virinchi Yoga. VI-28. 

‚Äî ‚Äôs aspects. 11-23. 

‚Äî ‚Äôs gem is Saphire. 11-29. 

‚Äî governs t*ouch. If -26. 

‚ñÝ ‚Äî ‚Äôs grain is Sesamum. 11-28. 

‚Äî in the 5th house identical 
with Kataka gives many child- 
ren. XII-5. 

‚Äî in transit in the 1st brings 
about loss of honour and wealth 
and in most cases danger to life 


! 


1 

I 

I 

i 


! 


8-A 


alse. XXVI-34. 

‚Äî in transit in the 12th, 8th or 
the 1st house from the ‚Ä¢Moon 
brings about danger to life. 
XXV 1-33. 

‚Äî is a eunuch. 11-27. 

‚Äî occupying a Kendra identical 
with his exaltation or 8wa- 
ksbntra causes Sana Yoga. VI- 1. 

‚Äî -owning tlie 9bh identical with 
a cliara sign and unaspected by 
benotics makes the child live 
undi3r the care of a foster-father 
XV 1-25. ‚Äô 

‚Äî plays the role of a father. or 
paternal uncle. 11-25. ^ 

The abodes of ‚Äî . II- 16. 

The animals that have to bo 
assigned to ‚Äî . 11-20. 

3Tio appearance and cliaractcris- 
tics of ‚Äî . 11-11. 

The Ayus of the nativo to be 
deduced from tlio Aslitiik.avsirgjL 
of‚Äî. XXIV~3d5. 

The caste of ‚Äî . li-21. 

T4ie ffavour belonging to ‚Äî , II- 

' 31. 

The friends and enemies of ‚Äî . 
iI-21, 22, 23. 

The 0th house or its lord being 
in a rnoyoalite sign and occupied 
or aspectcfl by ‚Äî and 12th house 
strong makes the nativo to bo 
adopted by another. XVi-26. 

The particular division in a Rasi 
of which is the 'lord in an 
Ashtakavarga. XXI II- 18, i9¬´. 

The particular houses where 
when ‚Äî transits, ho gives good 
results. XXV 1-2, 5. 

The suf)Htance ascribed to ‚Äî . 
1 1-30. 

The things that ought to be 
guessed through ‚Äî . II-7. . 

There is no Vodha between the 
Sun and ‚Äî XXVI'3. 

To find the year of calamity or 
disease from ‚Äî in the Ash taka 
Varga. XXIV-41 

Udu Dasa period of ‚Äî XIX-2, 

13, 23 



62 

saturi^ 


INDEX 


SERPENT 


When will ‚Äî -‚Äôs Dasa prove fatal? 

XX-31. 

Yeare of ‚Äî in the Kalachakra 
system. XXlI-3. 

Years of ‚Äîunder the Naisargika- 
yurdaya system. XXII-17. 
SATVA. 11-24. 

SAUMYAi 11-21, 2G, 29. 
SAUKASHTRA. 11-28. 
SAURYAYOGA. VI-44, 47. 
SAVOURY FOOD. To eat‚Äî. 
Vlll-ll. 

SAVYA. XXn-l. 2. 7, 14. 

SCAB. XIV-5 

SGANDATi. To be despised 
anjl ‚Äî ised. XX-17. 

To be subject to a ‚Äî due to a 
breach of decorum. XIX- 14. 
SCI'NTS. Information regard- 
ing ‚Äî should be sought for 
through Venus. 11*6. 

To earn through ‚Äî . V-7. 

‚Ä¢JV) have good ‚Äî . VII 1-17. 

SCOKPIO See imder Vrischika. 
SCRIBFj, To earn a living by 
being a V-5. 

SCUlPTUUrj. To have access 
to--. XIX-19 

SCULPTURE. To earn through 

‚Äî . V-8. 

SEA BATH. IL2. ‚Äô 

SEA VOYAGE, XXI-5F. 
SEASONS. The -‚Äò-represented by 
the planets. 11-24. 

SECOND HOUSE. VII-24. 25; 
^.VI1L2. 5, 8, 1 1, 14. 17, 21. 25. 
28; X 7. 8, 10, 11; XI-3 ; 

XIV- 10; XV-2, 22; XVI-5, 
G; XX-3. 15; XXV- 9 ; XXVI- 
2. 4. G, 7, 8. 9. 13, 18. 21. 

SECOND WIFE. To have 
children by a -. XII-S. 
SEDUCTION -^f a young 
female. XX 1-7 8 
SEETAGU. IL21, 29. 

SELF. One ought to divine about 
one‚Äôs own ‚Äî 'tlirongh the Sun. 

XV- 15. 

SELF CONTROL. XXVL50. 


SEliPISH. To be highly‚Äî. VI- 
67. 

SELF RESPECT. To be possessed 
of‚Äî. VIII-22. 

SELF-WILLED. A woman to 

be--. XI-7. 

To become-^. VIII-26. 

SEMEN. XIV-7. 

SENIORS. Adoration of rever- 
end‚Äî. xxr-59. 

Loss among revered ‚Äî . XIX- 18. 
S14NSE. To possess clear organs 
of‚Äî. VI-3. 

To suffer from want of ‚Äî . XX- 
18. 

SENSES. Re : conquering of 
the ‚Äî , information should be 
sought through Jupiter. II-5. 
The planets denoting the five ‚Äî . 
11-26. 

To have a desire to please the ‚Äî 

XXI- 6 

To have one‚Äôs ‚Äî under control. 
VI-3i. 

Who keep their ‚Äî under control. 

XXII- 32. 

SENSUALIST. Re: a‚Äî, one 
ought to ascertain through 
Venus. IP 19. 

To be a-. VIII-5. 

SENSUAL PLEASURES. To in- 
dulge in‚Äî. VIII-G. 

SEPARATION. Mental anguish 
caused by the‚Äî of one‚Äôs parents 
and elders. XIX‚Äò26. 

‚Äî from one‚Äôs brothers. XXI-2L 
‚Äî from one‚Äôs children, XXI-8. 

‚Äî from one‚Äôs kith and kin. 
XXVMl. 

‚Äî from one‚Äôs relations. XXVI- 
13. 

‚Äî from one‚Äôs son. XXI 69- 
‚Äî from one‚Äôs wife. X-4. 

To suffer ‚Äî from one‚Äôs beloved. 
VIII-26. 

To siilTer the -of one‚Äôs dear 
friends. VII 1-31. 

SERPFINT. Childlessness clue to 
the cur.se of a ‚Äî . XII-22. 



INDEX 


SERPENT 


68 

.SHOULDER 


Coming in sight of a veno- 
mous ‚Äî . XXI*30. * 

Danger from ‚Äî . XIV-2, 3, 9; 
XXL 50, 70. 71. 

Dark holes occupied by ‚Äî s 
belong to liaiiu and Ketu. II- 
16, 20 

Diseases engendered by ‚Äî ^s. XIV- 
6 . 

Installation of the‚Äî deity. XID 

21 . 

‚Äî decanates. Ill- 14. 

To proi^itiate the lord of ‚Äî 'S. 

XIM6. 

Sl^dlYANT. Acquisition of ‚Äî s. 

XX- 9; XXI-GO; XXVI-22. 
Acquisition of wealth from a‚Äî. 

V-1, 8. 

Anything about a ‚Äî slmuld be 
ascertained through Saturn. 
11-20 ;-XV-lG. 

Desertion of ‚Äî -s. XIV-8; XIX- 
. 13. 

Destruction of‚Äî s. XIX-18 ; 

XXI- 32. 

Increase in ‚Äî s. XXI -48. 

Loss of ‚Äî s. XXI -2 7. 
Misunderstandings with 
one‚Äôs ^‚ÄúS. XXI 42. 

To ascertain the well-i)eing, etc. 

of one‚Äôs ‚Äî . XV-21. 

To be a~>. XVIIf-6. 

*To be a ‚Äîunder a woman. 

xvin-13. 

To be endowed with ‚Äî s. VIII 7. 
To be possessed of ‚Äî s. Vtll- 
13. 

To be served by ‚Äî s, XX- 12. 

To have good ‚Äî s. VI-4. 

Trouble to or from ‚Äî -s. XXL 
73. 

Trouble to*‚Äî s. XX I- 18. 

SERVICE UNDER GOVERN- 
MENT. II- 1. 

SERVILE DUTIES. To do‚Äî. 
XX- 17. 

SERVITUDE. II-7. 

SESAMUM. IL28. 


SEVENTH HOUSE. VlII-3. 6. 
9, 12, 15, 18. 22. 26. 31 ; X-i, 
2. 3. 4, 5, 6, 7, 8. 9, 10, 11, 12, 

13. 14. 15; Xr-l, 3. 4, 5; XIL 
6,8. 25, 27; XTTL12. 24; XIV- 
10; XV-2. 7,23, 26; XVI-20; 
XX-8, 18, 36. 40. 61 ; XXV- 12 ; 
XXVr-2. 4, 7, S, 10. 15. 19, 22. 

SEVENTH STAR. XX.23. 
SEVERITY. XlX-6- 
SEXIjAL ENJOYMENT. VIII- 
19 ; XXVI 9, 39, 40. 

S E X U A L GRATIFICATION. 
XVL13. 

SEXITAI. INTERCOURSE. H-6. 
SEXIJAL PLEASURES. XXV- 

14. 

SHAD JIALAS. IV-22, 23. 

SHAD VARGAS. 111-2, 11. 
SHAKING. To liavo -in the 
body. XXi'5S. 

SHAKY. To have one‚Äôs position 
to be ‚Äî , VI-58. ‚Ä¢ .p 

SHAME. To be devoid of‚Äî. VI- 
60 ; IX- 10. 

SHANTIS. XXVI~49. 
SHARP-WITTED. To be-‚Äî. 
VIILIl. 

SJTASHTL XIT-16. 
SHASHTYAMSA. IIM. 2, 3, 5. 
SHEEP .The full period of life 
in the case of XXIL31. 
SHJ^JPHERD. To be a XVni-3. 
SHODASAMSA H V3. 6. ‚Ä¢ 
SHORT. To be-in stature. IX- 
4, 9. 

SHORT LIFE. XT 11-7, 15. 

To have a- Vlir-25 ; XIIL 
17 ; XXV-26. 

SHORT-LIVED. To be VI- 
11. 41, 58; V1IL6. 7,. 8, 9, 

25, 26, 31-; XXV~11, 16. 
SHORT SIGHTED. To be‚Äî. 
XXI II -5. 

SHOULDER. Marks on one's ‚Äî 
11-32. 

To havdO one‚Äôs ‚Äî s drooping. IX- 6. 



64 

SHRINES 


INDEX 


SIXTH HOUSE 


SHRINES. To make one a trav- 
eller visiting holy ‚Äî .XXYII-5. 
To resort to sacred places and 
‚Äî ..XXI.23. 

SICKLY. To be --'during one‚Äôs 
early years. ‚ÄòVILE ‚Äî 22¬ª 
SICKNESS. Freedom from ‚Äî -. 
XXI-64; XXVI'9. 16. 

One‚Äôs brothers and children to be 
troubled with ‚Äî . XXI-49. 

One‚Äôs‚Äî ought to be guessed 
through Saturn. II- 7. 

‚Äî arising from wind and bile. 
XXI-77, 82. 

‚Äî -.to elders. XXI-10, 52. 

‚Äî to one‚Äôs children. XIX-14; 
:^X-20;XXI-11,40. 

‚Äî to one‚Äôs dear friends. XX-IG ; 
XXI-16. 

‚Äî through heat and wind. XXI- 
24. 

To have ‚Äî among 'one‚Äôs relatives. 

xr‚Äôx-r). 

'to sulTor from-‚Äî, XX-18 ; 

XXr-47 ; XXVI- 1 2, 23, 24. 
SIGHT. The Sun and Mars 
govern ‚Äî . 11-26. 

To jiossess clear organs of sense, 

. hearing etc. VI "3. 

SIGN, Quarters represented by 
the ‚Äî s. 1-9 
SIKHIN 11-16, 26, 28. 

SIJiKEN FINLIHKS. ‚Äò Income 
th rough ‚Äî -.V-?. 

SILLX- 'lo l>ecome‚Äî . Vrn-2G. 
SILFA. V-6. 

11-2, 30; V-7. 

SIMIIA. 1-7; VIl-9; VlII-l; 
IX-5 ; XI-4-7 ; Xll-d ; XIV-IS; 

XV-IO; XViII.-8. 14; XXIV- 
24. 

SIMHASANAMSA. IIT-7,8. 

SUM H A V AliOK ANA X XI I - 1 2 . 
SIN.- 1-13, 16; 11^3, 7. 

Early destruction of a child in 
consequence of the ‚Äî ful acts 
of the parents. XIII-S. 
Childlessness due to a ‚Äî ful 
deed to jxiople that ought to 
be revered, XII- 21. 


To be afraid to commit ‚Äî ful 
acts. VKhS*. ‚Ä¢ 

To be intent in committing ‚Äî ful 
acts secretly. VIII-27. 

To be intent on doing what is ‚Äî 
ful. XVIII-ll. 

To he intent in doing ‚Äî ful deeds. 
XVIII-i. 

^ To be‚Äîful. VIII-15, 16. 

To commit ‚Äî VIIi-14. 

To commit ‚Äî ful actions. VI-33 ; 
XXI-48. 

To commit ‚Äî ful deeds. VI-41. 
To d¬© a-^ful deed. XXVI-23. 
To do ‚Äî ful and wicked acts.* 

XVI- 28. 

To do ‚Äî ful deeds. IX-18. 

To entangle oneself in‚Äúful 
actions. VI-68. 

To follow a ‚Äî ful course. V 111*32. 
To secretly commit ‚Äî ful acts. 

VII- 33. 

To secretly commit ‚Äî ful deeds. 
IX-Il 

To ward off the several ‚Äî s al- 
ready committed. XX-i3. 
SINDHU. Il-2¬´. 

SINISTER LOOK. To have a--^. 
Vin-28. 

SINNER. XVIILll. 

SIRSHA. I-IO. 

SIRSHODAYA. 1-8 ; XIII-2 ; 
XlV-22, 27 ; XX-33. 

SISTERS. To be without 
brothers or ‚Äî . XXV -10. 

SITA. 11-21, 22, 28, 35, 37. 
SITUATION. To be without a ‚Äî 
having lost the one already got. 
VI-6J. 

SIVA. II-l, 15, 17, 27; VI-29; 
XJl-20, 24; XIV-2. 

SIXTH HOUSE. VII- 16, 24, 28; 

VIII- 3, 6, 9, 12. 15. 18, 22, 26. 
30; X-6; XTI-9, 19; XIII-12, 
13, 19; XIV-1. 10. 11; XV-4, 
5. 7,8, 9, 10. 18, 19, 23, 29 ; 
XVMl, 16, 17. 18.19,33, 34; 

XVII- 15, 28; XX-7.14. 17, 22, 
27, 28. 36, 41. 59; XXIV-40 ; 
XXV-Il ; XXVI~2, 3, 4. 5, 6. 
8, 10; 14, 19, 21, 22. 



INDEX 


SKANDA 


SKANDA. XII-18. 

SKU.FUL. XVin-3, 8. 

'SKIN. IMl. 

SKIN DISEASE. 11-33; XIV-2. 5. 

SKY. XXV-27, 29. 

SLANDEK. To‚Äî the good. VIII- 
32. 

To bo a‚Äî or. VIII-IO. 

SLAVE. A woman to be a menial^ 
or‚Äî and unchaste. XI-G. 

To he served by servants and‚Äî s. 
XX-12. ‚ñÝ 

SLEEPING DISILVSM XIV-3. 

SMALL POX. XlV-irj. ‚Ä¢ 

SMELLING. 11-26. 

SMKiTT. 1-12; JM. 

SNAKE. XIV-20. 

SN AKl^: C ATGI I EK . 11- 20. 

SODHYAPINDA. XXIY-I. 3, 5, 

7, 13, 15. 

SOLAK YEAB. XtX-4. 

SON. A woman to bear good 
‚Äî s. XI-2, 10. 

. About one‚Äôs ‚Äî s, information 

should be sought for by refer- 
ring to Jupiter. XV 16, 21, 
.25; XVI-12. 

Acquisition of a good ‚Äî . XXI- 
39. 

Accjuisition of a ‚Äî . XV-10, 29. 

Adoption of a ‚Äî . Xii-34. 

Birth of a ‚Äî ‚Ä¢. XX-G ; XXI-79. 

l^irtli of a very good ‚Äî . XXI- 
'2, 74. 

Danger to ‚Äî s aiuj wife. XIX-5. 

Information regarding one‚Äôs -^s 
should bo sought through Jupi- 
ter. II-5. 

Mental anguish caused through 
one‚Äôs‚Äî. XXVI‚Äî 14. 

Mercury denotes the adopted ‚Äî . 
11-25. 

Quarrel with ‚Äî s. XtV-5. 

Separation from one‚Äôs ‚Äî . XXI- 
69. 

The time when one‚Äôs son‚Äôs death 
may happen. XVI I "8, 

Time when one will lose a ‚Äî ‚Ä¢. 
XX-17. 


65 

SOVEREIGN 

Time when one‚Äôs wife and ‚Äî s 
will suffer from sickness. 
XXVL23. 

Time when the birth of a may 
he expected. Xli-25, 26, 27, 
28, 29, 30. 

To bo endowed with a good wife 
and ‚Äî s. Vf-30. 

To be in the company of one‚Äôs 
wife^ ‚Äî s, etc. XX- 10. 

To he the ‚Äî of a widow remarried. 
XVH]-2. 

To have a -‚Äúby adoption. XII-8. 
To have (piarrols with one‚Äôs bro- 
thers and ‚Äî s. XlX-20. 

To have-s. VI-20, 33 ; VIIJ-l. 
To havo-~s and grandsons. VI" 
15. 

To liave ‚Äî s in plenty. XU ‚Äî 3. 
To have ‚Äî s of good character. 
Vf-25; Vm-6; IX- 16. 

To live witli one‚Äôs mother, ‚Äî s 
otc. VllI-14. 

To possess good ‚Äî . XXV- 11. 

To possess very few ‚Äî s. IX-4. 
To possess wife and ‚Äî s. Vf-31, 
54. 

To qnarrel with one‚Äôs wife 
and‚Äî s. XX I -50. 

To secure the comfort of 
one‚Äôs ‚Äî s. XXI-82. 

To suffer distress throng! 
VlIl-15. 

When a ‚Äî is horn, the first thing 
to be done is to clctormine his 
longevity. XIII-T. 
SON-IN-LAW. Distress Co 
one's ‚Äî . XX-18. 

SONLESS. To become‚Äî. X-2, 
SOBBOW. 1-14; ITI-12; VIII- 
4, 10, 20, 25 ; XIV-G : XIX-25 ; 
XX-18; XX1-5B, 69; XXIII- 
20; XXIV-37; XXVI-10> IL 
12, 13, 18. 23, 24. 38. 

SOUL‚Äî. II- 26. 

SOUB. II-3I. 

SOVEBEI GN. Danger from 
the‚Äî. XlV-2 ; XXI-38, 71. 

Though a friend of the ‚Äî , to be 



66 

SOVEBEIGU 


INDEX 


STATE 


hated by others. VIII-10.. 

To be a friend of the ‚Äî . ^^1^2 5. 

To be honoured by the ‚Äî . Vl* 
48; IX-8; XIX^II ; XXD20, 
28. 39, 44, 49, 60, 64, 72. 

To be revered by one‚Äôs VI'12. 
To be the favourite of the ‚Äî . 

YI-9. * 

To fear one‚Äôs ‚Äî ‚Ä¢. XX-15. 

To get trouble from the ‚Äî .* YI- 
64. 

To get wealth through tlie ‚Äî . 
YIII-25; XrX-20.‚Äò 

Ta incur the displeasure of 
the-. YIII-3; XlX-5, 2i ; 
XX-17. 

To meet with death through the 
displeasure of one‚Äôs ‚Äî . XIY- 
20. 

To receive presents from one‚Äôs ‚Äî ‚ñÝ. 
YIt 34; XlX-12. 

^Trouble from the ‚Äî . XIY*4 ; 
XTX-U, 17;XXI~21, 47. 

SPAIISA. fl-26. 

SPAWNS. XlI-20. 

SPEAK To-opposingly. YUl- 
27. 

To ‚Äî kindly. TX-6. 

To ‚Äî woundingly, ‚ÄôYl-flS. 

SPEECH. An appellation for the 
2nd house. 1-10. 

Information regarding one‚Äôs 
charniing‚Äî ".should be sought 
^or through Yenus. 11-6. 

It is Mercury that induences 
one‚Äôs dexterity in ‚Äî . 11-4 ; 

XY-15. 

Mercury is pleasant in ‚Äî . II-ll. 
The Moon is soft in ‚Äî . II-9. 

To be affable in one‚Äôs ‚Äî . YI-12. 
To be eloquent in one‚Äôs ‚Äî . Yl- 
9; YI1M3; XX 3, 

To be equivocal in one‚Äôs ‚Äî . 
Y1II.25. 

To be gentle in one‚Äôs ‚Äî . YI-31. 

To be harsh in ‚Äî . VII 1-12. 

To be of good‚Äî . YW9'. 


To be witty in ‚Äî ‚ñÝ. YIII-11, 

To have confidence in one‚Äôs ‚Äî . 
XIX-IO. . 

SPELLS. The employment of 
magical ‚Äî . XIY-I4. 

To be conversant with charms 
or-*-. YIII-12. 

Working ‚Äî ^for the injury of 
another. XXI-71. 

tiPEND. To- -money on vile 
things. Yin-33. 

To‚Äî much. Y1IL27, 33; XX- 
13, 15. 

RPIKITS. XII-21, 22, 24. 

SPITE. Mutual ‚Äî with another.- 
XIX-5. 

SPLEEN. XIY-11,18; XXI-29, 
55, 77. 

SPLENDOUE. Time when one 
ma 3 ^ expect ‚Äî . XXI-39. 

To have hodil^^ ‚Äî XXi-75. 

To have wealth, -, etc. YI-{)3 ; 
Y11M9. 

To live in all --and pi‚Äôosperityi 
XX.7. 

To lose one‚Äôs ‚Äî . YI-10. 

SPOlLi. To ‚Äî other‚Äôs work. Yl- 
52. 

SPOET. Information regarding 
one‚Äôs ‚Äî sliouiJ l.)e s o u g h t 
through Venus. Il-G. 

To obtain facilities for one‚Äôs ‚Äî 
and hai)piness- XTX-i2. 

To be ever ‚Äî ing with a damsel 
of a very amiable disposition. 
YI-24. 

SPEUE. XIYrlB. 

SPY. 1-16. 

Income through ‚Äî ing. Y-4. 

SEAY AN A YEATA. XrM7. 

SEI. The Goddess ‚Äî . YL34. 45. 

SEIKANTA YOGA. VL28. 29.' 

SEINATIIA YOGA. YI-28, 30. 

SE1P.\TI. Xin.25. 

SEUTI. 1-12 

STA^r^MEEING. To be‚Äî . YllI-2. 

STAE. XIX-2, 3; XXlY-13 ; 
XXY-2S ; XXVI-26. 48. 

STATE. To be fully engrossed in 



INDEX 


STATE 

‚Ä¢ ‚Äî affairs. VI- 47. 

To, serve the ‚Äî *VIII-2. 
STATIONARY. To l>e-in one 

pla(3e. XVT~:T 

STATURE. To be sliorfc in ‚Äî 
TX 4, 9. 

To bo tall in‚Äî. VIIl-l ; TX-7. 
STATUS. Effects should be so 
declared as to suitably jit in, 
with one‚Äôs‚Äî. XX['84. 

To got higher XX-b. 
STEAMIER. Time when a ‚Äîmay | 
be ])urchii^;ed or sold. XXI-lO. 
STIGMA. To get a ‚Äî to * one‚Äôs 
‚Äú familv XlX-17. 

STOAIACfl. Death by‚Äî a c h o . 
XIV -19. 

Disease in tdio‚Äî Vlll-dO; 
XXVI-IO. 

have illness alTecffing the ‚Äî . 
XrX-IJ^; XX-17. 

To suffer fi'om ‚Äî ache. XXVE-I5. 

STONJX To be liit by a ‚Äî . XXV- 
.* 24. 

To bo skilled in ‚Äî work XVrif- 

1 . 

Wound caused by a l)low from 
XlV-8. 

STORIES. To be intent on hear- 
ing ‚Äîof gi‚Äòeat i)eoj)lo. Vi*5o. 
STOUT. To he not ‚Äî . XXV-8. 
STRANGiyiY. XIV-7. 
strength. 119; FV-l-R, 21- 
‚Äò24 ; X-f), 9 ; XV-2, G, 7, 13 ; 
XVI- ], 4; XIX-8; XX-2. 17, 
20, 34, 35 ; XXV 30; XXVIID 
1-4. 

To attain pf>wer . and ~ througli 
the help of a wealthy personage, 
IX ‚Äî 15. 

To be devoid of ‚Äî . Vl-OO. 

To have exceeding IX-10. 

To have‚Äî. VIIf-4, 13, 25, 29; 
IX-9. 

STRIFE. XXVI-14. 

STRONG. To be‚Äî. 111-12 ; VT- 
4, G; VIII-2, 5. 

To be‚Äî willed. VIlI-25. 
STTHANA BALA. IV-1, 21. 
STTHIKA KARANAS. XIIU5, 


67 

. SUCCESS 

16. 

STITAIBEE. xvt-b. 

STUPID. To bo‚Äî. VKU24; 
XXV-8. 

A woman to have a ‚Äî husband. 
Xl-3. 

STURDY. To bo ‚Äî . 111-12. 

SUIUIA. A name to denote the 
9th house. 1-14. 

‚Äî pliyiet. XX-11. 

SUBHA KARTARl VI-8, II, 13. 
sriBHA AI VEA VI 21. 

SFBIIA STUilANAS. 1-17, 
SUBHA VASl VU8. 

SUBHA VEDHAS. XXVI '48. 
SUBHA VESl. VI 8. 
SUBlIOBIl AYACHAKT. VT-B. 
SUB.IEGTS. A king protecting 
his ‚Äî hy following a course of 
cf¬ªnduct approved by all. Vi- 
ol. 

A king to he worshipped by 
his ‚Äî like a deity. Vli-14. 

A king who will do good to 
Ins‚Äî. VlTl-19. 

SUBRAIIATANYA. God--. XII- 
IG. 

SUBSTANCES. The‚Äî pertaining 
to the ])lanets. 11-30. 
SUCCESS. A term to indicate 
the 10th houso. Dl5. 
Conditions for predicting the ‚Äî 
of a Bliava. XVU31, 35. 

‚Äî in agriculture. XX-5.‚Äô 

‚Äî in religious devotion. XXT-G4. 
Tlie planets that declared to 

bring ‚Äî to a Bhava. XV-7. 

Time to have ‚Äî in biisineas. XTX- 
G. 7. 

Time when one has ‚Äî . XXI- 
49; XXVI-12, 13, 17, 35. 37. 

Time when one ought to pre- 
dict ‚Äî to the family. XX-rS, 

To achieve‚Äî in a business at the 
very outset. VF65 ; VIII-7. 
To he ‚Äî fill in whatever one 
begins to undertake. VHI-IB. 
To gain‚Äî through one‚Äôs friends. 
I-IG. 

To ha^e‚Äî in all undertakings. 



68 

SUCCESS 


INDEX 


SUN 


XXVI-14. 

To have ‚Äî in everything. XXIII- 

11 . . 

To have one‚Äôs ‚Äî over his oppo- 
nents praised by one and all. 
VI‚Äô25. 

.SUDEA. Acquisition of much 
money ‚Äòthrough a person of 
the ‚Äî easte. XXI- 48. 
Harassment through the enmity 
ofaSudra. XXI-25. 

Mercury is the lord of the ‚Äî 
community 11-24. 
SUEFEEINGS. Obe‚Äôs‚Äî should 
bp guessed from the 6th house. 
.XV-23 

SUdANDHA. 1-12. 

SUICIDE. Eahu causes unnatu- 
ral deaths such as ‚Äî . XIV-IS. 
SUKHA, 1-12 

SUKHITA. One of the ten Avast - 
thas of a planet. HI- 18. 
STIKTiAEAKSHA. IY-1. 

SCKEA 1-6 : 11-24, 27, 31, 37 ; 
XX.I-43. 01, 59, 67, 75. 

See also under Venus. 
SIJKRITA. M4. 
SUKUNTALAMBA XXVIII-6 . 
STTLA YOGA. VI 39, 41. 
SUMALA YOGA VI -22. 
SIIMANGALL Xn-20. 

SUN. II-8, 15, 17, 21, 24, 25, 26, 
27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32'; VM4, 
28; VlI-10, 11. 15, 21, 24; 
Xm-18, 23; XVI-9; XVIl-7. 
9, 11. 12, 28. 

^bout one‚Äôs father, the effects of 
the 12 Bhavas are to he deduced 
counting from the ‚Äî . XV-21, 

22, 23, 24. 

Ashtavarga of the ‚Äî . XXlII-3. 
Bhukti of the ‚Äî in J u p i t e r‚Äôs 
Dasa. XXI‚Äî44. 

BhUjkti of the - in Ketu‚Äôs Dasa. 
XXI 68. 

Bhukti of the-^in Mercury‚Äôs 
Dasa. XXI* 60. 

Bhukti of the ‚Äî in Eahu's D.asa. 
XXI-36. 

Bhukti of the‚Äî -in Saturn‚Äôs Dasa. 
XXI‚Äú52. 


Bhukti of the ‚Äî in the Dasa of 
Mars. XXMS. 

Bhukti of the ‚Äî in the Moon‚Äôs 
Dasa. XXI-20. 

Bhukti of the ‚Äî in the Dasa of 
Venus. XXI-76. 

Cause of sonlessness when the ‚Äî 
is badly placed. XII- 20. 

Conception may take place when 
the ‚Äî transits through an 
Apachaya Easi. Xri-12. 

Diseases brought on by the ‚Äî . 
XIV-2. 

Effects during the Dasa of the 
Sun. XXI-3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 
10 , 11 . 

ElTect of Gulika being associated 
with the ‚Äî . XXV-15. 

Effect of the Moon in the several 
Navamsas being aspected by the 
‚Äî . XVIII-12, 13, 14, 15, 16. 

Effect of the Moon in the several 
signs being aspected by the ‚Äî . 
XViri-6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11. 

Effect of the ‚Äî being connected 
with the lord of the 2nd. XVI-5. 

Effect of the ‚Äî -being posited in 
the 12 houses. VIII-l, 2, 3, 4. 

Effect of tlie ‚Äî being well-placed 
and aspected by benefics in a 
day birth. XVl-23.‚Äò 

Effect of the ‚Äî in conjunction 
with each of the otbtfr planets. 
X VIII-l. 

Effect of then‚Äôs transit through 
certain asterisi^is in the Sapta- 
salaka Chakra. XXVI-26, 27, 
29. 33, 34, 35, 42-44. 

Effects of the‚Äî ^‚Äôs transit through 
the 12 houses. XXVI-9, 10, 11. 

If the 7th house or its lord be 
eclipsed by the ‚Äî ‚Äôs rays loss of 
wife is certain. X-4. 

If the 7th house or *the setting 
Navamsa belongs to the ‚Äî , the 
woman will have a diseased 
womb XI-4. 

In a day -birth, time of demise 
when the Lagna is in the Easi 
occupied by the ‚Äî . XVlI-25. 

In the case of an auspicious 



SUN 


INDEX 


‚ñÝ Bhukfci, the goo4 effects will be 
manifested when the ‚Äî enters 
the planet‚Äôs exaltation sign. 
XX-38. 

Information tliafc can be ascer- 
tained tlirougii the ‚Äî and other 
planets. LI' I -7. 

Lord of the oth, Jupiter, ]\Iars and 
the ‚Äî , all in male Navamsas. 
lead to the birth of a good 
number of children. XIT-IO. 

Mars and the ‚Äî in the 4th cause 
the house of the native to bo 
burnt. XVI-I4. 

Mars and the ^produoo effect 
when they are in the first ten 
degrees of a sign. VXVl -‚Äòdo. 

Parivcsha is a halo or disc round 
the‚Äî. XXV- dS. 

I^indayurdaya to ho adopted when 
‚Äî is sU'ongest. XX i I- 28. 

Reduction to be effected when a 
planet is witliin the range of 
tlie-'. XXlV-80. 

The l)havas for which the‚Äî is 
Karaka. XV-i7. 

Tlie birtii of a child and the ‚Äî ‚Äôs 
transit. Xil-dl. 

The country in one‚Äôs x^ast and 
future hirtlis, pertaining to the 
‚Äî XIV‚Äô26. 

The function of the ‚Äî in the 
mattef of the x)ossibility of 
‚Äôprogeny. XII 14, lo. 

The general order of the ‚Äî ‚Äôs 
Dasa in a person‚Äôs life XXII-27. 

‚Ä¢The houses where ‚Äî ‚Äôs transit 
gives good results. XXVI 2,3. 

The kind of ascetic caused by the 

‚Äî . xxvn-5. 

The lord of the Gth in a Dusstthana 
and the‚Äî in the 9th cause des- 
truction of. the enemies. XVI-ld. 

The moon in an odd Rasi or Amsa 
in* the 5th and aspocted by the 
‚Äî lead to barrenness. XII-7. 

The 9th house from the ‚Äî is 
termed the father's. XXI V-1. 

The particular division in a Rasi 
of which the‚Äî is lord in an 
ashtakavarga. XXIII-18, 19. 


AC) 
SUN 

Ther ‚Äî , alone in the 5th identical 
with Kataka may give cdiildren 
by a second wife. XIL5'. 

The - and Moon in trine to 
Saturn and Mars will cause the 
child to ho al)!indoned by both 
the parents. XV I -24. 

The ‚Äî and Kahu in tlie 7th cause 
loss of wealth through the asso- 
ciation of women. X-2. 

Tiio ‚Äî and the lord of the Ijagiia 
make (.>no long lived if they are 
frituidiy ; ()f medium life, if 
neutral; short-lived, if inimical. 
XnM5. 

Tlie ‚Äî i;auses deatli through lire, 
bilious fever, bile or weapon. 
XlV-1 1. 

Tlie ‚Äî even if ho he the owner 
of the Htli house will give only 
good effects. XX*41. 

The ‚Äî in the 5th identical with a 
childless sign causes a child to 
be born late in life. XU -4. 

Tiio ‚Äî in the 9f;h and its lord in 
a Dusstbana or betwixt two 
malelics cause the demise of 
father soon after birtli. XVl-22. 

The ‚Äî ill the 9th will cause dis- 
tress to that hhava. XV-20. 

The ‚Äî in the Gth or 8tli will cause 
danger from fever. XlV-ll. 

The ‚Äî in the lOtli makes the 
native a great and mighty per- 
sonage XVI-28. 

The ‚Äî 'indicates Kailfisa as re- 
fuge of the departed. XiV-23.* 

The ‚Äî 's transit and the father's 
demise. XXIV- 5, 8. 

TJie tilings that may be divined 
with respect to a parson‚Äôs life 
by means of the ‚Äî . XV-i5. 

The 12th and the 2nd if occupied 
or aspectod by tlie Moon ‚Ä¢ and 
the-‚Äî will niake the native 
suffer fi'om eye-disease. XlVj-iO 

Udu Dasa jjieriod of the ‚Äî XIX-2, 
5, 6. 18. 

Upagrahas and the ‚Äî ‚Äô‚Äôs position. 

XXV-5. 

When the ‚Äîtransits the Rasi and 



70 

SUN 


INDEX 


TEMPLE OF SASTA 


Navamsa occupied by the lord 
of tjie 8th house, death may 
take place. XYII-5, 20. 

When the transits the 6th, 7th 
or 12th place from Venus, 
death may haj^pen. XVlT-27. 

Years of the ‚Äî in the Kalachakra 
systepn. XXII‚Äô3. 

Years of the ‚Äî 'Under Naisargi- 
kayurdaya system. XXII-17. 

Years of the ‚Äî under the Pinda- 
yurdaya system. XXII-21. 

SUN‚ÄôS LATTA. XXVT-45, 46. 

SUNAPIIA YOGA. VI-5. 6. 13. 

SUPARLTATA YOGA. Vl-44. 

SUEALOKAMSA 111-7, 9. 

SUREDYA. 11-12. 

SURI. n-22. 

SURROUNDINGS. To dwell in 
insanitary ‚Äî . IX- 18. 

SURYA. 1-6 ; 11-24. 26, 27. 

SUSSTHA. 11*36; XII-1. 

SUSSTTHANAS. 1-17. 


SUSUBHA YQGA. Vl-8, 13. 
SUTA. H2. 

SUVASl YOGA. VI-9. 

SUVESI YOGA. Vi‚Äò9, 13. 
SWA. MO. , 
SWAKSHETRA. -III-6, 18 ; VI- 
1 ; Vll-1, 2. 6, 7, 21 ; VriI-20 ; 
IX-20 ; Xll-26 ; XlV-28; 

. XV-18, 29 ; XVl-2, 3. 27 ; XX 
-14, 26, 30, 34, 37 : XXiIl-10, 
23 ;XXV-30; XXVI-31. 
SWAN. 11-19. 

SWARGA. XIV-23. 
SWASTTHA. One of the 10 
Avastthas of a planet. 111-18. 
SWEATING LABOUR. To live 
by V-8. 

SWEl^rr-SPEAKlNG. To be‚Äî. 
Vll-11. 

S W EET S Q B ST ANCES . II -2 . 
SWb:iyb-TONGlTEl). To be -. 

Vl-20; XVII L2. 

SWOCHCHA. I1I-6. 

SWOON. XlV-6 


T 

TALL. XXV-28. I 

TAILORING. To bo an adopt in | 
‚Äî . XVIII-2. 

TALE-BEARER. A designation 
for the 1 2th house. 1-16. 

To become a‚Ñ¢. VI*52 ; XVIII 

-9. 

TALES TO OTHERS. To bear 
VI1I.2B. 

TALK. To ‚Äî through the nose. 

vm-26. 

TALKATIVE. To be-. VIII-U. 
TALL Rahu is‚Äî. 11-33 
Saturn has got a ‚Äî body. 11-14. 

To be ‚Äî -in stature. VIIl-1 ; 
IX-7. 

TAM AS. Another name for Rahu. 
H-27, 35. 

Mars and Saturn own‚Äî as 
their distinguishing character- 
istic. 11-24. 

TANKS. To sink wells and ‚Äî on 

the road. VI- 48. 


TAPAS. A name for the 9fh 
house. 1-14. 

TARUNA. Ill 3. 10. 

TASTE. 11-26. 

TASTELESSNESS. XlV-3, 17. 
TATK ALI K A-BATRU SUHRIT- 
VA n- 23 ; lV-10. 

TAURUS. Sf3e Vrishahha. 
TEACHING, n-5. 

T E A S E . To -ot hers . VI- 2 3 . 
TEETH. Illness affecting‚Äî. 
XlX-18. 

Saturn has got large ‚Äî 11-14, 
To have bad VI*59. 

To suffer from a disease due to 
an inflammation in the ‚Äî . 
XXI-77. 

TEMPER. Warmth of‚Äî. XXI- 
44. 

TEMPERAMENT. To be of an 
excited ‚Äî >. VI-60. 

TEMPLE. II-l, 6, 15. 

TEMPLE OF SASTA. II-6. 



INDEX 


TEMPLE MATTERS 


71 

TROUBLE 


‚ñÝTEMPLE MATTERS. Trouble in 
connection with ‚Äî . ' XIV-6. 
TEMPORAL STRENGTH. IV-1. 
‚Ä¢TENDERNESS. 11-2. 

TENETS. XXVI r-5. 

TENTH HOUSE. VII 9, 16, 24; 
VIH 4, 7, 10, 12, 16, 19,24,27. 
32 ; XO-6 ; XHr-24 ; XV-2, 24 ; 
XVl-27, 28; XX-11, 19, 25, 26, 
36, 59; XXIV.38: XXV-13;‚Äò 
XX VI-2. 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 11, 16. 
20, 23 ; XXVII- 1. 2, 8. 

THEFT. Income tlirongh ‚Äî . V-4, 

‚ñÝ ‚Äî of property, XXt-27. ‚Ä¢ 

THIEF. 1-13:11-3,15, 18: XIV- 
2, 4; XVnT-6, 13; XIX-14, 
17; XX-17, 23: XXl-13, 21, 
22, 25, 38, 47, 62, 70. 71, 79: 
XXV-8, 

THIEVISH. XVII I -6. 

THIGHS. IX-2;XXl-9. 


TORMENT. To‚Äî -other people. 
VIII-IO. 

TORTURE. XIV-6. 
TORTURED. Ono of the ten 
.Avasttlms of a planet. III-19. 
TODOH. 11-26; VI-3. 

TRADE. XIX-26. 

To be a‚Äî r. XVlIt-9.. 

To be clever in--ing. IX-7. 
TRAN(,)inLlvITY.‚Äî of mind. XV- 
23 ; XlX-7. 

TRANSIT. XII-26 : XVI-31, .32. 
33, 35; XVII-I, 6, 7. 8, 9, 16, 
18, 19. 20.' 21, 22, 24, 25. 28, 
XX-32, 34. 35, 37, .38 ; XXlH-1, 
n, 15. 16, 19, 22 ; XXI V-2. 7., 8, 
13, 39. 40; XXVI-1.2, 3,6, 7. 9, 
10, 11, 13, 14, 15, 17, 18, 20. 21. 
22, 23. 24, 28, 29. 31 , 32, 35, 48. 
TRAVEL. XXVl-39, 40. 
TRAVELTiKlt. XXVlI-5. 


THIRD HOUSE Vl.I-16, 24; 

Vlll-2. 5, 8, 11, 14, 17. 21, 25, 
‚Ä¢ ‚Ä¢ 29; XtI-7: XIV- I'U XV 7, 8, 
22, 26 ; XVI-7, 8, 9 ; XX-4, 16, 


TRAVELLING. XXVl-22. 
TREASURE lX-14; XVllI-14 ; 

XIX 12, 26; XXI-72, 79. 
TREASURE HOUSE. II-5. 


,36, 41, 59 ; X.KV-)0 ; XXVI-2. 

'3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9. 13, 18. 21, 22. 

THIRST. XIV-4. 

THOUGHTS. To be skilled in 
interpreting oiher people‚Äôs ‚Äî . 

. TX 3. 

TriRlVJ5. To ‚Äîwell. VI-36. 

To be ‚Äî ing. 111-10. 

.THRO.\T. XIV-4,5. 

thunder. XXI-26; XXV-25. 

T FI T J N D El 1-STORM . X X 1 - 1 4 . 

T H W A R T . To‚Äî everything. 
VITl-33. 

THYAJYAKALA. XXV-17. 

TIGER. II-17 ; XIV-20. 

TTGMAKIRANA. a name for the 
Sun. 11-32. 

TIMID 3:0 be‚Äî. VI-23, 

TIME OP FRUITION. XXIII-16, 
19 

TINNEVBLLY. XXVIII-5. 

TITHI. XII-15. 18. 

TONGUE. 11-34. 

TOOTH ACHE. To suffer 
from‚Äî. XIX 25. 


i TREASURY. II-16. 

I TREATMENT. To be won only 
I by kind ‚Äî . IX -9. 

1 TREE. XII-19, 21 ; XlV-19, 27. 

j Cliaracter of ‚Äî s generated by 
the planets. 11-37. 

trembling. To have‚Äî of the 
body. XXl-34. 

TRIFLES. To be angry at‚Äî, 
i IX 5. 

I TRl.lANMA. XXVl-29. 

TRIKONA. 1-18; III-6; VI-21. 
26. 28 , 35, 37, 70 ; X-10 ; XI- 
5 ; XIII-23 ; XV-2, 7. 30 ; XVI- 
2, .31; XVn-16, 17, 19, 28: 
XX-36, 41, 42. 45, 47, 49, 52, 
61 ; XXV-30 : XXVII-l, 8-. 
‚Äîreduction. XXlV-16, 17. 18. 

TIUMSAMSA. III-l, 4, 15, 17 ; 
lV-3 ; XI-6, 7, 8. 

TRIPLE SYMPHONY. II-6 : V- 
7. 

TROUBLE. V-4 ; XIX-14 ; XX- 
16, 17. 19, 20, 23 ; XXI-5, 6, 



72 

TROUBLE . 


INDEX 


UNSTAEDY 


10, 11, 13, 16. 18, 21,21,25, 36, 
76, 78; XXV'23. 

TRUE. To 1)6 ‚Äî to one‚Äôs word. 

XX-15 ; XXV-9. 
TRUTH-SPEAK ING . II- 4 . 
TRUTHFUL, To be‚Äî. VIII- 
13 ; IX-G. 

TULA,. 1-6. 7 ; IX-7 ; XLG ; XIV- 
18 ; XVIII- 9 ; XXIV-24. 
TUKAGA-GATI. XXri-ll 
TWELFTH HOUSE. VII-2B ; 


VIII-4. 7, 10. 13, 16, 19, 24, 27, 
33,*X-1, 2;6,‚Äô10; XII.4, 6.9,, 19; 
XIII-12; 13, 17, 19; XIVH, 10, ‚Äò 
21, 22, 23 ; XV-4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 
18, 19; XVI-26. 30; XVII-1, 
15. 19. 28; XX-13. 14, 20, 22, 
26. 27, 28, 40, 58; XXIV-38. 
39, 40 ; XXV-14 ; XXVl-3, 4, 
5, 7, 8, 11, 16. 20, 21, 23. 
^WINS. To be the father of‚Äî. 
XVIII-9. 

TYPHOID. XlV-14. 18. 


U 


m¬´AYA. 1-9. 

UEHAYASIGN. XIII- 14. 

UHHAYODAYA. 1-8 ; XX-33. 

UCHCHA. 1-6. 

UCHCHAJA ILVLA. IV-l, 2. 

Ill) AY A. MO. 

UDU DASA. Xfil-25; XIX-4 ; 

. XX-63 ; XXVlIM-4. 

UGLY FACIL To have an‚Äî. 
VIII 21 ; XXV-2r). 

UKSHA. Name for Vrishabha 1-7. 

ULCER. Danger from‚Äî. XlV-ll. 

ULK AN IP AT A. X XVI - 29 . 

UMRHELLA. 1 J-2 ; V [-38 ; VIL 
3. 16. 

UNASSAILABLE. ' T o- b e‚Äî . 
VIII-8. 

UNBIASSED MIND. XXI-57. 

UNCHASTE. A female to bo‚Äî. 
XLl, 6. *, 

UNCLEAN. To he‚Äî. Viri-23. 

UNCONSCIOUSNESS. To suRor 
from ‚Äî '. XX- 18. 

UNCONTROliLED. A woman to I 
be ‚Äî . XL7. 

UN DERST AN DING . XV- 1 5. 

UNDERTAKING Ashtakavarga 
system is declared to be effec- 
tive in all ‚Äî 3. XXXV- 36. 

Evil counsel will prevail in 
one's ‚Äî s. XX-IG. 

To accomplish largo ‚Äî s. XVI- 
28. 

To bring to a successful toj-mi na- 
tion any‚Äî originated by one- 


t self. XX-11. 

To complete a mighty ‚Äî . XXVI- 
11 . 

To have disappointment in all 
one‚Äôs ‚Äî s. VllI-31. 

To have interruptions, in all 
one‚Äôs ‚Äî s. VI -33. 

To have success in all ‚Äî s, 
XXVM4. 

UNDISCRIMINATING. To be - . 
VI -62 

UN FAVOURABLE . To have‚Äî 
elTect. X.X-22. 

UNFORTUNATE. To become‚Äî. 
VI-J7. 

UNFRIENDLY PEOPLE. Asso- 
ciation with ‚Äî . XXI- 58. 

UNGOVERN ABl.E. A feinale to 
be‚Äî. XI-2. 

UNGRATEFUL. To be-. VI- 

23 ; vm-28; XXV-12. 

UNHAPPY. To be‚Äî. VI-11. 
17. 23, 52 ; V‚Äòin-9, 17, 22, 28, 
29; XXV 1-9. 

UNHAPPINESS. IILIO. 
UNIVERSE. VI-31. 

UNLUCKY. To be‚Äî. VIII-32 ; 
XXVI-19. 

UNPOPUIiAR. To bo‚Äî. VIII-17. 
UNRIGHTEOUS. To commit- 
deeds. VIIP27. 

To incline towards ‚Äî conduct. 
VI-10. 

UNSTEADY. Te be‚Äî in mind. 
Vl-33. 



INDEX 


UNSTEADY VENUS 

. To have‚Äî wealth VI-5G j I'PAGRAHAS. XVIMO ; XXV- 
UNTOWARD. ‚Ä¢X-7-:XX-18, IP, ! 1.7.19.22. 25. 27; XXVUI- 

!l7; XX!Y-39. 4.2 : XXVI-?3. i 1-4. 

UNTOWARD BIIAVA. XXVl-31 i UPAKETU. XXV-1 . 25, 20. 
UNTOWARD EFFECTS. XV-20. ! URAS. .1-11. 

UNTO WORD FA'ENTS. XlV-4: | URDIIVA. T-B. 

XXVI-12 29, 45.40 ; URINARY. DISEASES. XIV-7. 

UNTRUTHFUL, To he‚Äî -. XVIII | UTENSILS XXI-8, 43,81. 

‚Äî5. ‚Ä¢ j UTPANNA DASA. XXIMG. 

Ul'ACHAYA. 1-18; TV-0; VI- I UTT.AAI.V. 111-7,8, 14,17 
19; Xi-ll ; XX G1 ; XXIII-IO. i UTTAMA V.AROA. VII-13. 

V 


VADHTJ. .\ nanio for Si^ti Kanya. 
I'T. 

VAGEKSA. 

VAHANA. r- 11 . 

VAIKUMTA. 

VAISESHIKAMSAS. ITT-T; XVI 
-15. ‚Ä¢ 

VAAYA. Tr-2l. 

VAK. MO. 

‚Ä¢VAKRA. lV-'2, 5. 

VAKKABFIA. l-S. 
VAKYAKRAMA XAH-ll. 
VALIANr. 11-8 ; YUM. 

VALTiAKI YOXA. Vl-nO. 
VAliODR, Ml; VMO, 17 ; 

VIl-K); 1X14; XV1-2.S‚Äò 

‚Ä¢ XVUr-H; XX-4. 

VArX)R4)US. XYI. 7 . 
Y-ANQTTISHED, Yl-GO. 

*YARA YO lA. Yf-l<S. 

Y AR AIT AM I Ml Rr.Y XX-G:! ; 

XXir 21. 

YARGA. X-4. 

VARGOrrAMA. Ill- 1 , G ; YII- 
5. G 17 ; XXVriL-17: XXI 1-18. 

YARGOTTA^MAMSA. IX-20 ; XX 
- 22 . 

VARIEGATED C0LO17R. If* DR 
YI-34. 

VARSHAPA BALA. lY- L 
YAR81SHTA YOGA YI-I4. IS. 
VA8TRA. M2. 

VASTJMAT YOGA. VI* 19 20. 
VATA. IMl. 

VEDAS. H-5; Y 5; YP31 ; 


.XXV-8. 

VEDANTA PITILOSOPIIY. XX- 
Yn-5. 

YEDADIIYAYANA. V*5. 
VEDIIA. XXYf-;J; 4, 5. G, 7, 8 
2f), 48. 

YHDIIA ASTERISM. XXVI-2S. 
YEiENA YOGA. Y 1-39,40. 
YEGETABIiE SIGNS 1 1*9. 
YEITICLE I-ll; II-G ; 111-9; 
Yi-3.7, 18.34, 18,01; Yll*6 ; 
Ylll-l, G, 8, IG, 17, 21, 22, 29; 
XY-K), XV I- 13, 14.; XIX-11, 
12, XX-5, 05 ; XXf-44, 58,75; 
XXY-11. 

I VEINS. IM4. 

YENERVinON. M5. 

; YENERlAli COMIX.AINTS. XIV 
i M4, 18. 

: VENOMOUS BITES. YIV-lo. 

: VENUS. II-G. 13. If), 19, 21. 22, 
i 21. 25, 2G, 27. 28. 29, 31; VM^ 
j 2G. 28; YII-S, U, ‚ñÝJ5, 18, 20, 

I 23. 24; X-9. 12, 14; Xf-I, 0 ; 

I Xll-H 21, 22: XIV-7, 10. ll, 
; U. 23, 2G. 

i A malefic in tho IGi. ‚Äî in tlio 7feh 
and the Moon in the lOtii*; or 
I ‚Äî -and Mercury in the- 7th, 

Jupiter in* the 5th, and mrdeficg 
in tho Ith; ieiul to family 
extinction. XU*i). 

A5htak.uM.rga of-'‚Äú. xxrn*8, 

Bukilii of ‚Äîin tlie Dasaa of tlie 
several planets. XXT'Il, 19, 
27,35, 43,51, 59, G7, 75. 



INDEX 


U 

VENUS 


VIBHAVA, 


Conception may take place wljien 
the Sun and ‚Äî in the case 
of males are strong and transit 
through Apachaya Easis or i 
Arnsas. XIM2. ; 

Dasa period of ‚Äî . XIK-B. 12, ; 
26; XXI-76. 77, 73. 79, 80. 81. ; 
82, 83. . 

Effect of- the lord of the 4th and ; 
‚Äî ‚ÄòWell‚Äôplaced in the Lagna and ; 
the 4th. XVM3. ‚Ä¢ : 

Effect of Giilika being associated ; 

. XXY-16. I 

Effect of the planet' owning the j 
2nd bhava being connected with 
XVl-G. 

Effect of the transit of‚Äî -over 
the several houses from the 
Moon. XXVl*2[. 

Effect of‚Äî being in conjunction 
with each of the other planets. 
XVIIM, 2, 3, 4, 5, 

Effect of ‚Äî 'Occapying the Lagna 
' and the other bliavas. Vlli-i7. 
18, 19. 

Graha factor of‚Äî XXIV-26. 
Information about one‚Äôs wife 
and progeny that may he 
guessed through the Ashtaka- 
vargaof-. XXlV-i2. 
Information to be sought for 
through ‚Äî . XV46. ‚Äô 

The bhavas for which is a 
Karaka. XV -17. 

In transit, ‚Äî becomes effective 
when ho . is in the middle 
. .portion of a sign. XXYI-25. 
Jupiter and‚Äî if they own Ken- 
dras become powerful to cause 
evil. XX-50. 

Lord of the 7th and ‚Äî in a dual 
Easi or Amsa make the x)erson 
to have two wives. X-5. 

Moon in the several Amsas 
aspocted by ‚Äî ‚Ä¢ XYHi-12, 13, 
14. 15. 

Moon in the several signs aspect- 
ted by‚Äî. XYIil-B. 7, 8. 9, 
10 . 11 , 

Naisargi% Dasa pei'iod of . 
XXIM7. 


Pindayui‚Äôdaya Dasa period of ‚Äî ‚ñÝ. 

xxn-21 . ... 

The Astangata reduction does not . 

apply to‚Äî. ‚Äô XX 11- IS 
The 5th astorisin reckoned from 
that of ‚Äî -is termed his rear 
Latta. XXVI- 13. 

The kind '.of asceticism caused liy 
‚Äî . XXVII-5. 

The pa ticular division in a Easi 
of which ‚Äî is the lord in an 
Ashtakavarga. XX II I -13, 19. 

The position of ‚Äî in the general 
order of precedence in Dasas. 
XXG-27. 

There will bo quarrel in the Latta 
of‚Äî. XXYf-43, 

‚Äî alone in the 5th identical with 
Kataka may possibly give chil- 
dren by a second wife. Xir-5 
‚Äî and the Moon in opposition 
to Mars and Saturn make the 
native wifeless or issueless X-5. 
‚Äî hommod in between two 
malefics causes loss of wife'. 
X-1. 

‚Äî in conjunction with a inalelic 
in the 7th, 5fch or 9tli makes 
the native bereft of a wife. X-4. 
‚Äî in the 7bh causes distress to 
the bhaav. XY-2r). 

‚Äî ‚Äòin the Gfch brings abodt loss of 
honour and wealth and in most 
cases danger to life also. XXYI 
‚Äî34. 

‚Äî in transit gives good results 
in all places ' other than the 
lOtb, 7th, and 4th XXVL2,8. ' 
‚Äî in Yrisciiika*' identical with the 
7tli, causes loss of wife. X-3. 
When the Sun toansits the 6th‚Äô 
7th or I2th house rackoned 
from ‚Äî at birth, death is sure 
to happen. XVIl-‚Äò27. 

VERSES. To be reoiting char- 
rning ‚Äî containing the name of 
God Narayana. VI-30. 
VERSIFYING. To be clever in 
‚ÄîVI-27. 

yl BHAVA. A term for the libh 

house. L15. 



INDEX 


VI^'i'ORIOUS 


75 

VYOMA 


VICTORIOUS. Vl-2;- ViI-1 ; 
Vin-3, 7,9.* . 

VICTORY. XXI-11: : XXVl-lU 
‚Äî in war. II- 1. ‚Äò * 

VID. 11-15, 27. 28,35. 

VIDHU. IM5. 37. 

VIDYA. A term to denote the 
2nd house. I-IO. 

VIDYADIIARAS. XlV-fi. 

VIRWS. To be c r o o k e vl 
one‚Äôs ‚Äî . IX- 4. 

VICUNA. A term to denote tlio 
8th house. 1-14* 

VIGOUR. XV-15. 

VIKALA. One of the ten Avast- 
tlias of a planet. Ill -11). 20. 
VIKRAMA. A designation to 
denote the 3i‚Äòd liouse. l-i 1. 
VIKRAIMARKA. IX- 14. ‚Äô 
VILE. One‚Äôs s p o e c li to ho 
very ‚Äî in quality. VJll*2S. 

To bo* engaged in doing ‚Äî acts. 

vrii-32. 

To be ‚Äî in cluiractcr. Ill ‚Äî 1 1. 

‚Ä¢‚Äô To reside amidst ‚Äî i)eople. XVI- 

4. 

To spend money on ‚Äî things. 
' VIII-33. 

VIIjIFY. To unjustly ‚Äî other. 

VMO. 

VILLAGE. To bo the headman 
. of a ‚Äî VI-4. 

To liv¬´ in a good ‚Äî . XV1~3. 

VIMAL A YOGA. V 1-57. 09. 
VIOLENCE, W 0 a 1 1 h got 
through ‚Äî XX\-23. 

VIRGO. See Kanya 
VIRILE POWER. 11-13. 
VIRINCHI YOGA. VI-2^h 31 . 
VIRTUE. 1-14; XXI-57. 

To be renowned for one‚Äôs ‚Äî s. 
VIII-16. 

VIRTUOUS, Holding views 
quite antagonistic to ‚Äî conduct. 
XXV-26. 

One who has stored wealth earned 
through ‚Äî means. XXVI-50. 

To ho anxious to do ‚Äî acts. 

vin-16. 


I To he engaged in tlie practice 
of ‚Äî actions. XXIU32. 

To be of a ‚Äîdisposition. VI-45 ; 

xr-r>. 

To Ix)-. VU9, 12; VIH-7 
XI-G, 7. .10. 

To he ‚Äî Iv tlis)>osef]. Vi-70 i 
XV,L2. 20; XVllM L 
To help the‚Äî*. VI '29. 

' To make one -ly inciinod. 
XXV iL7. 

To pe ]‚Ä¢ f o l ai so 1 ne d eod . X 1 X - 1 1 . 

I To recite in comijany with tdie ‚Äî 
i the charming vc.rscs containing 

I tihe name of Gjd Narayana. 

I Vi 30. ^ 

To win the tii)])i‚Äôol)ation uf the ‚Äî , 

xxi;. 

VISAKIIA. Xl-8. 
VlSHAGlLVri KALA. Xill S. 
VlsnXlL iM5. 27; Ill-f. ; 

XIL20. 21 ; \IIL22. 

VlSIfTI KARAN A. XI M5. 
VITAL POWJRi. To lose one‚Äôs 
Vlli-3 1. 

Dcc.ay of XXV-2{>. 

VITTA. A term denoting tlie 
2nd house. LJO. 
VORACIOUS. To be a--*ea‚Äòer. 
VilL22. 

VOWS. XII-21 i \XVM9. 

I VOYAdE. To f)l¬ªtain facilities 
for one‚Äôs . X I X- 1 2. 
Augmentation of wealth 1) y 
: Iucrativo~'‚Äús. XlX-2(). 

i VRISCUI KA. i-4^ TV 5, t; ; \ X- 
8; X-3; XI -1 ; XLI'3; XLV.- 
: 18; XVIIL9 ; XIX.16; XXIU 

1. 12 ; XXIV-21. 

I VKISHA. I G. 

‚Äò VRISHALIIA T-G, 7, 8; IV-5; 
lX-2; X-3; X.L4. G; \!J-3; 
XIV-I7 ; XVIIi-G ; XXrV^2L 
iVRITTI. VG. 
j VULTURE: IMS, 
j ‚Äî faced' Decanates. 111-13.. 

I VYAPARA. 1-15. 

VYATIPATA. XXV'l, 5. 23. 28. 
VYAYA. MG. 

VYOMA. 1-15. 



76 

WAITED UPON 


INDEX 


t 





WEALTH I 


WAITED UPON. To be-by 
faithful attendants. VI*7. 
WALK. To-gently. VIII-G. 

To bo fast, in ‚Äò^ing. IX -4. 
WANDER. To ‚Äî in the roads. 
vni'9. 

WANDERING To be -without 
a wife. VTIi-3. 

To be -. [X-7; XIX-5 ; XX- 

17. 18. 

Inclination to bo always ‚Äî . 
^KXV-2G. 

To^lead a ‚Äî life. XXT-3. 

WAR. rV-2 ; XXL28. 
WARRIOR. To be a--. XVlIl-7. 
WASHERMAN. IM7 ; XVI I LO 
WATCHMAN. To be a‚Äî of a 
city. XVnUl2‚Äô 

W.\TER. 1-12 ; 11-2, 15, 27, 3G ; 
lX-1, 4, 12; XIV-.3, 19; XX- 
16; XXl-4, 18, 30, 37, 53, 63; 
XXV-24. 

Danger from horned and ‚Äî ani- 
mals. XIV- 3 

Death due to ‚Äî or ])y some - y 
diseases. XIV-lO. 

Income througli trade on ‚Äî jn‚Äôo- 
duets. V-3. 

The Moon brings on ' death 
through ‚Äî y diseases, XIV-14. 
To be afraid of XXV-24. 

,To luive a body similar to a ‚Äî pot. 

. IX-IL 

To sutler from a‚Äîdisease. VHT- 
27. 

To . suffer from a ‚Äî disease 
XIVGl ; XXV-24. 

---y signs. 1-7: XIV-ll. 

WAY. A designation for the 7th 
house, 1-13. 

WEAK. To be‚Äî in the lower 
limbs IX-10. 

WEAK KNEED. To be--. IX-1. 
WEAK-MINDED. To be‚Äî. VIII- 

WEAKNESS. To have bodily‚Äî. 

XX-17. 


To have one‚Äôs gait retarded due 
to bodily‚Äî. XXVM5, 
WEALTH. A woman to be with- 
out ‚Äî . XI-9. 

A woman to possess ‚Äî . XI-5. 

*A woman to have a husband who 
has lost all his ‚Äî . XI*3. 

Accession of ‚Äî . XXI-4. 

Acquisition of ‚Äî . XIX-6 ; XX- 
5 ; XXI-17, 28, 29. 33, 41. 
Addition of ‚Äî from a host of 
enemies. XXI- 46. 

‚Äî . An appellation to signify 
the 2nd house. I-IO. 

‚Äî an expression to denote the 
11th house. 1-15. 

Augmentation of‚Äî by ¬´t r a d e. 
XlX-26. 

Danger from fire to concealed ‚Äî . 
XlX-5. 

Destruction of ‚Äî ‚Ä¢. XXT-66. 

Gain of ‚Äî . XXHT-11 ; XXVI- 
21. 

Increase of ‚Äî . XXL51. 

Influx of-XXI-81 ; XXIV-43. 
Information regarding one‚Äôs ‚Äî ‚ñÝ 
sliould he sought for through 
Venus. 11-6 

Ketu ill the 3rd house confers ‚Äî 
on the native. VIII 29. 

Ketu in the l2th house will 
destroy ‚Äî . VII 1-33 . 

Loss of ‚Äî , X-2 > XrX-13, XXT- 

77 ; XXVI-O; 12. 13. 15, 16, 17. 

22. 24, 2G, 33, 34. 35. 

One ought to conjecture / about^ 
one‚Äôs ‚Äú"through Jupiter. XV* 
IG. 

Ostentation in the " acquisition 
XXV-10. 

Phenomenal increase of ‚Äî . XXI- 

56. 

Planets are always favourable to 
one who has stored‚Äî earned 
, through virtuous m 6ans. 
XXVI-50. 




INDEX 


^78 

Veapon 


Trouble from ‚Äî s. XIX-14, 17 ; 

XXI-26, 34, 36, 54 
WEAIUNPiSS. XIV-S. 
WEAEISOME. To suffer fatigue 
by-‚Äî journeys. XXVl-16. 

To undertake - journey. XXVI- 

9 . 

WEAVER. Anytliing alumt a ‚Äî 
f)Ughfc to" he ascertained through 
Venus. 11-19. 

WEAVING. To l)e an adept in ‚Äî . 

xvni-2. 

WEIGHT. One‚Äôs words to have 
‚Äî . XXVM8. 

WBJliFARE. To ascertain a 
Nc‚Äô^oman‚Äôs ‚Äî . XI -1. 
WELL-BEHAVED. To he‚Äî .VE 
15. 

WEEIi-DRESSED. To be‚Äî. VE 
6. 

WHEAT. 11-26. 28. 

WHITE GHO WRT EB . 1E2 . 
WUOLEBOAIB DIET. XXIE32. 

WICKED. A woman to become 
XEC), 7. 

One to be‚Äî in his disposition. 
VE4. 

'lo associate witli the ‚Äî .V-4; 
VI IE28. 

To be despised by the ‚Äî . VE 
58. ^ . 

To be ‚Äî ^ly disposed. AEIE14. 
To be ‚Äî ly inclined. Vl*7. 

To become‚Äî. VI 11-30; XVIIE 
9. 

To befriend' the ‚Äî . VEIO. 

To do‚Äî acts. XV 1-28; XX- 

17, 19. 

To get remarks from ^people. 
XXE71. 

To have intercourse with ‚Äî 
- women, XIX- 13. 

To have intrigues with women 
XK-18. 

To have mental anguish through 
‚Ä¢'‚Äú-people. XX 1-30. 

To have misunderstandings 
with‚Äî. XIX-19. 

WIDOW. A woman to becoirliB a 
‚Äî .XI^3, 9. 


WIFE, 


To* be the son of a ‚Äî remarried. 

xviir-2. 

WIFE. A designation for the., 
j 7th house. 1-13. 
j A malefic in the 7th if he owns 
I the place will do good to the 
wife. X-6. 

A tendency to quarrel with one‚Äô^ 
XXI-50. 

A woman to become the ‚Äî of a 
King. XE7. 

A Yoga under which the ‚Äî of a 
person will command all happi- 
ness. X-10. 

A Yoga by which one‚Äôs wile will 
be: virtuously disposed. XVE20. 

Acquisition of wealth from one‚Äôs 

VII. 

Acquisition of-- -. XIXI7 ; XXI 
35. 

Danger from ‚Äî . XIV-2 

Danger to‚Äî. XlV-8 ; rXlX-5. 

Destruction of one‚Äôs ‚Äî lX-19. 

Effect of one‚Äôs ‚Äî being horn 
under certain asterisnis. XI-9. 

Exit of one‚Äôs ‚Äî . XXT 26. 
i Happiness to one's ‚Äî .XIX- 10. 

! Information about one‚Äôs ‚Äî and 
I progeny through tlie Aslitaka- 
varga of Venus. XXiV-12. 

Information regarding one‚Äôs ‚Äî 
should be sought for through 
Venus. IE6; XV-16. 

Intercourse with another man‚Äôs 
‚Äî XXI-30. 

Loss of one‚Äôs ‚Äî . XXE37; 53; 
XXVT-22. 

Meeting of ‚Äî and children. XIX- * 

i 11. 

1 Alisunderstandings with one‚Äôs‚Äî 

; XXE32. 67; XXVEl5. 

One's ‚Äî to be troubled by gout. 
XIX-13. 

Sickness to‚Äî in an intense form. 
XXEll, 16; XXVI-23. 

Suffering and diseases to one‚Äôs 
‚Äî XXl-36. 

Suffering to ‚Äî and children XIX- 
18. 

Time of acquisition of a ‚Äî . X- 
13. 




INDEX 


80 

IX- ;i. 

Tp mim tio grief 

s.:p-4a. 

¬ª dt^fee fcbe n^imbei of‚Äî tha^f* s. 

petsoltt mi^y afiteoeiale wifcb. X^^O. 
$0 telti^ues with bad ‚Äî . 
XIX.13. 

% Wire iiJ^kigues with‚Äî laot 
tD4.Vm-26. 
gfoipilgip??*-. ix-L 
io t#btt to the society of low^. 

xix^ao. ^ 

IroT^bips from‚Äî. XI Y- 3 
WOMB. A woman to have a 
diseased‚Äî. XD4. 

YrO^D. Danger from‚Äî. XIV-2. 
Death due to a ‚Äî . XIV- 19. 

To deal HI ‚Äî en materials. V-8. 
Wound as a result of a blow 
f^om a pieoe of- XIY-8, 

WOOL To earn one‚Äôs livelibood 
through-*-. V-2. 

WOiiD. A person not true to his 


ZODBAC 

XX-^ld , XXY-9. 

One whoso--" ^ have m wiight* 
XXVI-I8. ^ V . 

WOEK. To is^ppil other's "^I- 
62. 

WOEMS. Death through‚Äî. XIY 
16. 

WOEN OUT To wear -cloths 
¬•1-66. 

WOESHIP. PI4; Vl-29; XII- 
24 ; XXI-7. 

WOESmPPEE. 1147. 

WOUNDS, M3 , IDS ; XIV-8 
XIX-17f XX47, XXD5, 21 
32. JL 42, 55;XXYM$. 

WEATH. XX49. 

WEATHFUL. 11-8, 10 ; VIIL26, 

WEESTLEB. To be a--. XVIIL 
3, 

WEBTCH. To be a mean-. VIII- 

10. 

WETTING To be shilled in‚Äî. 
XYIIL5. 


Y 


YAGNAS. II-l. ¬´‚Ä¢ 

YAKSHA. ;XIY-3,G. 

YAMA. Xir-Sl ; XIV- 2 , 3 
‚Äî 'sworW. XIV*23 

YASifAKANTAKA. XIl-‚Äò25 , XVII- 
6, ft$, H; XXV 1, 3, 18. 19, 

20 , at ¬ª 

YAYANAS. Ii-28 . XXII-17. 


YUm n*a4. 

‚Äî ‚Äô¬´ rttimgth. rv-l. 

YOdk'Kp^AXA. Xj5:.48. 
YOdlSIS^A. XIII‚Äòf 


YOUNG n-8. 

YOUNG 1<‚ÄôEMALBS. VIII-18. 

I YOUNG WOMAN. XVIII.S. 
YOUNGER BROTHERS. yV-15. 
YOUNGEST BROTHER. XI-9. 

YOUNGSTERS. XII-20; XXl- 
47. 

YOUTH. 1110. 

YUDDHA BALA. IV 2. 
YUGAYOGA. VI 39. 41. 

< YUVATl (Rasi). H9. 




Z 

\ ZOIJJAG* ‚Äò XJIVlII.1-4. 






