FROM TH E^50-M I LLI N-CO PY AUTHOR
OF '§W SIGNS AND m*'rur

-- 1 of 676 --

ST. MARTIN'S
PAPERBACKS
U.S. $7.99
CAN.$9.99
«3
C/>
->J-
C/)> EAN

-- 2 of 676 --

The Critics Hail the Works of
Linda Goodman:
"LINDA GOODMAN IS A GIFT TO US ALL!"~%'
—EI Paso Times?
M
'?*?
"SHE IS AMAZING AS A STUDENT OF CHAR-^
ACTER ... I AM NOT SAYING WHETHER;;
OR NOT I BELIEVE IN ASTROLOGY . . . l|
BELIEVE IN LINDA GOODMAN." '/&
—Los Angeles Times «%
"SURE TO DELIGHT!" M—Library Journal
"THE BOOK OF THE YEAR!"
—The Washington Post
"WITTY AND WELL WRITTEN!"
—Denver Post
BEAUTIFUL . . . VERY PERSUASIVE."
—Indianapolis Star

-- 3 of 676 --



-- 4 of 676 --



-- 5 of 676 --

St. Martin's Paperbacks titles are available at quantity discounts
for sales promotions, premiums or fund raising. Special books
or book excerpts can also be created to fit specific needs. For
information write to special sales manager, St. Martin's Press,
175 Fifth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10010.
You can get any St. Martin's Paperbacks title in print. For
every book ordered, please send title and retail price, plus
$1.50 for the first title and 50<r for each title thereafter, to cover
postage and handling. Send check or money order, or charge
to your VISA, MASTERCARD, DISCOVER or AMERICAN
EXPRESS card—no cash or CODs. New York residents add
applicable sales tax. Mail to: Publishers Book and Audio
Mailing Service, P.O. Box 120159, Staten Island, NY 10312-0004.

-- 6 of 676 --

LINDA
GOODMAN'S
STAR SIGNS
The Secret Codes of the Universe
Forgotten Rainbows and Forgotten Melodies
of Ancient Wisdom
ft
ST. MARTIN'S PRESS NEW YORK

-- 7 of 676 --

NOTE: If you purchased this book without a cover you
should be aware that this book is stolen property. It was
reported as 'unsold and destroyed' to the publisher, and
neither the author nor the publisher has received any
payment for this 'stripped book'.
JP BR
BF1999
.G628
1988x
Mannu
Grateful acknowledgment is made for permission to quote from "On a
Clear Day You Can See Forever" by B. Lane & A.J. Lerner. Copyright ©
1965 by Burton Lane & Alan Jay Lerner. All Rights Administered by
Chappell & Co., Inc. International Copyright Secured. ALL RIGHTS
RESERVED. Used by permission.
Author photo on inside back cover by Bill Robbins.
linda Goodman's star signs. Copyright © 1987 by Linda Goodman. All
rights reserved. Printed in the United States of America. No part of this
book may be used or reproduced in any manner whatsoever without
written permission except in the case of brief quotations embodied in
critical articles or reviews. For information, address St. Martin's Press,
175 Fifth Avenue, New. York, N.Y. 10010.
Library of Congress Catalog Card Number 87-28375
ISBN 0-312-95191-4
St. Martin's Press hardcover edition published 1987
St. Martin's Paperbacks edition/ November 1988
10 9 8 7

-- 8 of 676 --

Editorial Consulting
by
Robert A. Brewer

-- 9 of 676 --



-- 10 of 676 --

with Everlasting Love
I dedicate this
and all my future books
to "my sneaky guru"
Aaron Goldblatt
who has patiently, throughout all incarnations, guided
my creative efforts and spiritual enlightenment with
the infinite gentleness and wisdom of a Master Avatar;
and who has been ... is now and ever shall be . . .
responsible for all my miracles . . . every single one
of them manifested only through his faith.
"Be not forgetful to entertain strangers, for
thereby some have entertained angels unawares."
HEBREWS 13:2 .
"My children, errors will be forgiven. In our obsession
with original sin, we do often forget . . . original innocence."
. POPE INNOCENT OF ASSISl
A.D. 15th Century

-- 11 of 676 --



-- 12 of 676 --

this book is also for
Nona
with one perfect snowflake
for endless galaxies of reasons
Nahtan
the apple of my "I"
Dr. Charles A. Muses
whose wisdom never fails
Sally . . . Bill . . . Michael . . and Jill
and in loving memory of
Sam O. Goodman
and God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes; and
there shall be no more death "
REVELATION 21:4

-- 13 of 676 --



-- 14 of 676 --

the birth of these star signs was made possible
in various ways, for a number of reasons, by the
following people, to whom I would like to say "thank you"
first and foremost . . . Robert A. Brewer
Toni Lopopolo (the Laurel Lily Lady) . . . Robin Kessler . . . George
and Alice Rostad . . . Patrick, Lenore, Norman, and Corinne Lobo . .
.
Ted and Jean Fraites . . . Harold and Kathleen Finstad . . .Don
Matthews . . . Sue and Bill Fox . . . Tom Demeo . . . Dan Delaney . . .
Carol, Star, and Sunshine Rainey . . . Sue Kelly . . . Suzanne Finstad
. , . Allen Matthews . . . Harry Musante, Jr. . . .Carol Pozy . . .
Connie Larsen . . . Olive and Carol Twinem . . . Gladys Cunningham
. . . Sgt/ Robert Meza . . John Forsman . . . Louis Cicalese . . . Mike
Nelson . . .Judy Carr . . . Charles Collie . . .Julie Bogash Dora
Elliott . . . Renier Milan . . . Joshua Rappaport . . . Vicky Sparks . . .
Pat Franklin . . . Charles Hurst, D.D.S. . . . Neal Brawner . . . Harriet
Snare . . . Mary Jo Anne Valko . . . Inga Danville . . . John Eastlack,
Esq. . . . Mercedes Hernandez . . . Jim Gaidula . . . Paul O'Driscoll .
.
Dan Schow . , . Harold and Carol Nay . . . Sahle Adanu . . . Lance
Reed ... Pat Callison . . . Ruth Cook . . . Bill Slawson, Jane Schaefer,
Rosemary Maclntyre and Fredo Killing, of the Antler's Plaza Hotel in
Colorado Springs . . . Jerome A. Perles, Esq. . . . Garry R. Appel, Esq.
I . . George Rosenthal . . . Howard Hughes, Jr. . . . and last, but
certainly not least ... *
Philip di Franco, the Lion . . . Dame Thelma Dunlap, the Bull
also
Arthur Mitchell Klebanoff
the "wise man," who, for the second time, as with Love Signs, parted
the Red Sea, so this book could get out of Egypt !

-- 15 of 676 --

L

-- 16 of 676 --

"
A grateful acknowledgment
i and the reason for it . . .
The completion of this book was delayed by a typical Aries accident:
: a blow on my head that caused my shocked spine to pop out its 5th
lumbar vertebra, which then pinched my sciatic nerve, and kept on
pinching it for a very long, painful time. Now I want to express my
gratitude to the man who got me back to the typewriter
John Wm. Perry, M.D.
Hollywood, California
who is everyone's ideal of a perfect physician, because he combines
the nostalgic, comforting bedside manner Norman Rockwell painted
with a brilliant knowledge of modern medical marvels and
techniques — plus the strong healing magnetism of Scorpio. "Dr.
ijohn" is a specialist in internal medicine/diagnosis, and a pioneer in
r sports medicine. He's been the official doctor for numerous sports
pigures and teams, including the Washington Redskins and the Los,
'Angeles Rams — and is now the official doctor for this Aries Ram,
hvho, under his expert care, went from a painful u quarter-back" to a
fhalf-back" to, finally, a well back.
also
Marianna Clunie, Libra . . . and Aurie Salazar, Gemini
^Dr. John's serene staff . . . two angels of mercy. Both of them Air
Signs, of course. What other Sun Sign element would angels be ?
and two final bear hugs for:
Ralph Bergstresser
Scottsdale, Arizona
who additionally (and not for the first time) blessed me with many
magics he brought back from Atlantis, by way of Jupiter.

-- 17 of 676 --



-- 18 of 676 --

LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS

-- 19 of 676 --

Both the prose and verse quotations used throughout the text and at
the beginning of each chapter have been taken from the author's
forthcoming work, Gooberz.

-- 20 of 676 --

CONTENTS
Introduction xxv
deface xliii
LABORS OF LOVE AND THE MONEY
MYSTIQUE
astrological career guide . . . and the achievement of
simultaneous financial security and financial freedom
1
2
AN APPLE A DAY
an astrological and numerological health guide including
vegetarianism
. . and other current problems and their esoteric, holistic solutions
37

-- 21 of 676 --

XX * CONTENTS
GURUS, GHOSTS, AND AVATARS
the Rocky Mountain "highs" of magnetic power points and
astral vibratory frequencies, including clairaudience and
clairvoyance at ten thousand feet above sea level
89
4
DEJAVU
the laws of Karma and reincarnation: how yesterday's vices
and virtues result in today's sorrows and joys . . . how to
balance these for a happier Present and Future
139
5
WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS
the study of numerology, based on the Hebrew Kabala teachings and
the Chaldean Alphabet ... the one and only true and correct system
of numbers
161

-- 22 of 676 --

CONTENTS * xxi
Mystical Meanings and Practical Applications of
Numbers
163
Definitions of Single Numbers
225
Definitions of Compound Numbers
249
Four and Eight . . . the Numbers of Fate and Destiny
269
The Mysteries of the Number Twelve
279
FORGOTTEN RAINBOWS
the power of Color in your life ... the human aura . . .
permanent weight gain and weight loss through Color . . .
and other magics—including the powers of gems and crystals
287

-- 23 of 676 --

XXii * CONTENTS
FORGOTTEN MELODIES
harmonic communications among humans ... the power of
Silence, Sound, and Music ... the synchronicity and Oneness
of the Universe . . . how to use these to manifest magic and
miracles
329
Natural Harmonics and Off-Key Notes
331
Primary Cell Perception
365
North-South Polarity Points
379
Playing Musical Eagles
393
Purple Plates for Purple Leprechauns
403 .

-- 24 of 676 --

CONTENTS * xxiii
8
LEXIGRAMS . . . AND THE WORD DRUIDS
the use of words to penetrate the meanings of ancient codes
... the profound mysteries of the English language . . . and
how to lexigram the secrets of words, names, titles, and
phrases
419
PHYSICAL IMMORTALITY
a thought transformation, leading to the achievement
of cell regeneration
509 .
AFTERWORD
remarks from the author to her readers on the subjects of
astrobiology and Gooberz
579
FOR THE PILGRIM'S PROGRESS
a recommended reading list of books on metaphysical and
occult studies . . . both fiction and nonaction
591

-- 25 of 676 --

XXiv * CONTENTS
Note to my readers: Sometimes, when reading this kind of book -
containing a variety of information, the reader is tempted to
check the Contents and turn directly to a chapter in which
there's a particular interest. Please try not to do that with Star
Signs, because if you do, you'll be missing so much. You really
do need to read the chapters consecutively, as they were writ-
ten, for a full understanding of the material in each. If any
chapter is read out of context, the meaning will be confusing,
and not having the foundation of previous chapters, it will not
be very helpful.

-- 26 of 676 --

INTRODUCTION
•

-- 27 of 676 --

xxvi * INTRODUCTION
am I the innocent victim
of a new kind of psychological circumlocution
or am I suffering the pangs of paranoid persecution ?
why do I feel these strange solar plexus sensations
as I ponder the acute schizophrenic implications
of this frenetic, kinetic, and peripatetic Aquarian Age ?
where is the enlightened and illuminated page
of Freud's Electra-Oedipus text
that will hint what I might expect next
in this perplexing pattern of non sequitur human behavior ?
what unseen galaxy of stars
holds the true wisdom of the Easter gladness
and the answer to all this other madness
of the Aquarian Age ?
******
"When the Moon was in the seventh house, and Jupiter aligned with
Mars" it brought the dawning of the Age of Aquarius, in all of its
colorful, bizarre, upside-down, and dizzy glory, frightening the con-
servatives out of their stiff molds, and delighting the free-spirite«^
nonconformists.
Along with the wild hairdos, gypsy clothing, and shocking life-
styles bearing the unmistakable Uranian stamp of individuality, an
important signature of the New Age is the swiftly growing interest in
metaphysics and the supernatural, spreading like wildfire all over the
world. Seductively, it has beckoned high school and college (even
grade school) students, housewives, career women, the so-called "jet
set," film stars, government officials, staid businessmen, politicians,
and Boards of Directors. Already, representatives of some of Amer-
ica's largest companies, such as IBM, AT&T and General Motors, to
name only a few, have met in lengthy seminars to discuss how meta-
physics might be able to help their executives compete in the world
marketplace.

-- 28 of 676 --

INTRODUCTION * xxvii
Chaldean—Hebrew Kabala Numerical Alphabet
A- 1 H-5 0-7 V-6
B-2 1-1 P-8 W-6
C-3 J-l Q-1 X-5
D-4 K-2 R-2 Y- 1
E-5 L-3 S-3 Z-7
F-8 M-4 T-4
G-3 N-5 U-6

-- 29 of 676 --



-- 30 of 676 --

INTRODUCTION * XXIX
These businesspeople believe the esoteric mysteries will show
them how to decrease their losses and increase their profits, while new
apostles of the occult are equally convinced that, in addition to hold-
ing the solutions to their personal problems, these same esoteric mys-
teries contain an answer to the threat of approaching natural
cataclysms and the nuclear holocaust — the final Gotterdammerung.
They are right. The ancient wisdoms do possess such solutions and
answers, with certain reservations, depending on the interpretation
and application of — and obedience to — their truths. Every coin has
two sides, and the golden coins of mysticism and metaphysics are no
exception.
Astrologers are not surprised at this burgeoning of a newborn
belief in the occult. It has been foretold for centuries; long anticipated
by esoteric Initiates. And be assured that it will continue to advance
like a tidal wave throughout the coming decades of the next two thou-
sand years of the New Age, as the Aquarian "children," spanning all
generation gaps, dance a little crazily down the Yellow Brick Road
toward the Uranus-ruled, Emerald City of Oz. But beware, Dorothy,
lovable Lion, Tin Man, Scarecrow, and innocent Toto ! The land of
Oz is not the true Emerald City of enlightenment. There may be a few
good [aeries with genuine magic wands hovering here and there, but
Oz is awash in a surplus of glittering pseudo Wizards, hiding behind
every Lollipop Bush and Gingerbread Tree.
Essentially, of course, it is good that humans are,, at long last,
beginning to realize who they really are — to recognize their own
marvelous magical abilities. Behind the explosion of the current mass
quest for illumination are the forgotten rainbows and forgotten melo-
dies of remembered miracles. Earthlings are finally becoming dimly
aware that they are, in truth, spirits, imprisoned in flesh Body Temples,
and afflicted with an eons-old amnesia of each individual's true iden-
tity and birthright of divinity.
It's a good thing, this dawning of awareness, yes, but there are
dangers: the false prophets who can sink the human spirit into an even

-- 31 of 676 --

XXX * INTRODUCTION
deeper darkness rather than cause it to rise into the light of true un-
derstanding of each individual's mission on this weary Earth, this
waning planet ... at history's twilight hour.
You must remember that, under Universal Law, Light shining
from a mountaintop will inevitably attract the darkness.
The dark forces on Earth cannot halt the Aquarian Age earth-
quake of illumination, nor banish the new hunger for supernatural
knowledge and ancient wisdom, but they can use the growing tide of
enlightenment for their own nefarious purposes by twisting its mes-
sage and distorting its clarion call of truth.
As an example of such abuse, an article by Robert Lindsey of The
New York Times News Service points out that in the early 1980s, re-
cruiting slogans at the Army War College in Carlisle, Pennsylvania,
read: "Be All That You Can Be." Lindsey notes that researchers into
the growing phenomena of esoteric group (that's the Key Word) pro-
grams cite this as clear evidence of a significant influence on the
Armed Services by credos such as est, Lifespring, and other "New Age"
programs and seminars spreading into certain quarters of the military.
These researchers discovered that a number of officers at the
Army War College in Carlisle in the early 1980s were graduates of
such programs as est, and were dedicated to creating a "New Age
Army." According to participants in the study, these officers envi-
sioned the training of soldiers in transcendental meditation (in
groups), extrasensory perception, magic, and certain hypnotic tech-
niques. The researchers further contend that est, Lifespring, and
other group instruction seminars continue to this day to influence all
branches of the Armed Services.
Such a warning to the wise should be sufficient, but it seems not
to be. This has to be the non sequitur supreme. Think about it. The
use of alleged "spiritual" enlightenment to teach soldiers how to kill
more efficiently is surely the ultimate contradiction.
A certain "psychic-medium," currently being promoted and near

-- 32 of 676 --

INTRODUCTION * xxxi
worshipped by a growing number of major film stars, as well as
"ordinary" truth seekers, has been raised to the stature of a saint by
followers who congregate in group meetings to become "illuminated"
and receive "past life readings" from the "psychic-medium" who, while
in trance, becomes "an ancient seer," with voice changes and all the
other trappings of medium seances.
Each apostle of this "holy one" has paid from $400 to $1,500 to
become enlightened by listening for several hours to "the voice from
thousands of years ago." That adds up to a handsome sum when you
multiply it by the twenty to fifty or so people attending each group
seance. Devoted followers of this "seer" frequently tell others,, with
incredible naivete, that "the occult information must be valid because
the seminars are so very expensive. You get what you pay for, and
why not pay for the best ?" What a pathetically wrong yardstick this
is to measure the sincerity of one who claims to be a "Master," even
though a small portion of the teachings of "the ancient one" are eso-
terically sound. The false prophets often surround falsehood with a
soft blanket of truth, to disguise the lie. In this instance, the expensive
California seer sought by major film stars, housewives, and business
executives teaches those who come to be enlightened that "you are
Divine, and the divinity in you can do no harm. Therefore, you are
incapable of wrongdoing." "Even murder ?" her apostles ask. "Yes,"
answers the "sage," leaving the seekers really out on a limb, "if you
have a good reason for the murder, you may kill without sin." Good
grief, Charlie Brown and Lucy. Whatever do you think of that ?
Still, the outrageousness of such teaching is somewhat diluted, I
suppose, in the minds of the "seer's" students, by consideration of the
"religious wars" — the Crusades. "Go forth, sons of Assisi," shouted
the Catholic Bishop. "War is beautiful !" — and further consideration
of the 15th and 16th centuries, during which the Catholic Church
brutally mutilated and murdered more than five hundred thousand
innocent women accused of being witches.
The California trance medium is apparently following the lead of

-- 33 of 676 --

XXXii * INTRODUCTION
psychiatrists who tell their patients, "If it feels good, do it." — the
hypocrisy of the Mormon Church that forbids followers to smoke or
drink, while the Church owns some of the largest liquor and tobacco
companies in the world — and the precepts of other religious leaders
who teach that "holy wars" justify murder. Not all Mormon and Cath-
olic leaders are guilty of such philosophies, of course, only a certain
few among the Hierarchies, but . . .
Add the Hebrew religion to this strange religious philosophy.
The Chosen Ones Moses led out of the wilderness today shoulder their
guns and drop their bombs from the sacred womb of Israel with the
same fanatical fervor as America's "proud" Green Berets. It would
appear that man can always invent an idealistic reason for murder
when it suits him to do so. Considering modem female world leaders,
so will woman, when given the opportunity of authority over others,
who follow the leader like bleating sheep in the holy name of
patriotism.
The beloved mystic, Edgar Cayce, who led a life of near poverty, did
not charge hundreds of dollars for the very real help he gave to thou-
sands of people. For a brief time those representing him accepted a
small voluntary donation, but most of the time those who sought and
received his counsel could not afford even this. While Jesus imparted
wisdom during the Sermon on the Mount, or frequently while walking
barefoot along the shores of. Galilee, Peter and the other disciples are
not on record as collecting money from the seeking — or banning
those who were poor from receiving the knowledge of the Master.
Nor did the Nazarene sail around the world on expensive yachts be-
tween his lessons to the multitudes and to individuals, as have those
persuasive spiritual salesmen who founded most of the major "group
seminar sessions."
Beware of those glittering pseudo-Wizards of Oz who promote
enlightenment like used car salesmen in group seminars costing a
small fortune, especially when the leaders of these programs are
wealthy men who remain aloof from the individual seeker, their

-- 34 of 676 --

INTRODUCTION * xxxiii
wealth earned from the gullibility of their students, taught by high-
pressure junior salesmen.
The problem of money and spirituality is not new. There is
nothing wrong with earning large sums of money. What matters is
how you earn it and what you do with it after you've received it. You
need not apologize for earning your daily bread (even large bushels of
it) for any sort of labor you do which contributes something to the
world, on any level. To receive cash compensation, you must put
back into the world something of value, whether it be paintings, spe-
cialized services, clothings, automobiles, refrigerators, music, or enter-
tainment. As long as you cheerfully and willingly give away half of
what you have to those less fortunate, you needn't be ashamed to be a
millionaire — or even a billionaire — because you have let go of half,
thereby allowing this "green energy" to circulate. (Also because you
earned it by honest work.) Money is not evil. Only the use of it and
the means of gaining it can cause it to be.
However, there is a singular rule and metaphysical precept con-
cerning the relationship between money and spiritual counsel. The
rule is clear, and repeated in every holy work of every religion. Money
must not change hands between esoteric teacher and student. This is why
all churches, Catholic, Protestant, or Synagogue, do not permit their
priests, ministers, or rabbis to accept money from the parishioners.
These "teachers" are supported, their needs supplied by the church,
which is, itself, supported by voluntary and anonymous donations
from the generaf public.
It's unfortunate, for example, that there are no "churches" to sup-
port astrologers. They must "earn their daily bread" in some other
manner, and perform their astrological counseling during their pre-
cious free time. It's unfortunate, yes, but not as much so as when
astrologers charge for their readings, since the ancient teachings say
that the one who heeds not the warning forbidding the exchange of
money between teacher and student will soon "lose the gift of percep-
tion," and consequently will no. longer be sought by the "students."

-- 35 of 676 --

XXXiv * INTRODUCTION
To write about esoteric subjects or personal paths of enlightenment in
books is not against this law. Books by everyone from actress Shirley
MacLaine to Ruth Montgomery and dozens of astrological and meta-
physical writers spread enlightenment in the spiritually approved
way. The money received by the authors is for their labors at the
typewriter, the talent of stringing words together, earned over years of
practice and hard work. To earn your bread by writing is the same as
to earn your bread by being a craftsman in any endeavor. (But they'd
still be best advised to share half of it with others in need !)
The money rule, is not the only roadmap you'll need on your
journey down the Yellow Brick Road of metaphysics to the enchanting
Oz of enlightenment. You need to also be forewarned, therefore fore-
armed, against the loss of your own individuality by trusting those
who seek to control your mind and your personal intuition (teaching
from within) through a form of mass hypnosis.
Dr. Edwin Morse, a former member of the University of Wiscon-
sin's psychology faculty, following a study of self-help groups such
as est, Lifespring, Forum Insight, and Actualizations states that "the
graduates of such group programs, former cult members, are often
psychologically scarred." He further contends that these groups are
subjected to well-known and effective "hypnotic procedures — and
are not being told about it."
You do have a choice, whether you realize it yet or not. You can
choose the dangerous turn in the Yellow Brick Road to enlightenment
by following the deceptive Detour Sign to "group illumination," and
risk becoming lost, while you pay, not only a high toll charge in dol-
lars, but the higher price of stilling the always wise voice of your own
personal Higher Self — your own intuition . . . being taught from
within.
Or you can choose an intimate Personal Odyssey, learning to listen
to the voice of the Angel of your Higher Self. This is the road which
will lead you directly to the Emerald City of enlightenment, not the Oz
of pseudo wizards. And you need not walk the road alone. The

-- 36 of 676 --

INTRODUCTION * XXXV
words of an old song contain a true promise ... "I believe for everyone
who's gone astray . . . someone will come, to show the way"
Yes. You are entitled to your own Guru. Your own personal
Adept or Avatar, who will not only emanate the wisdoms of all past
Messiahs, but who will lead you into understanding that you, too, are
a Messiah. You needn't look in the Yellow Pages of the telephone
directory to locate this special one who will walk along the path with
you until you're able to walk alone. Then, how do you find the
"Guru" you decide to seek alone, without turning your precious mind
over to others in expensive, dangerous group seminars ? It's really
quite simple. Desire. Genuine desire. Desire, when it stems from the
heart and the spirit, when it is pure and intense, possesses awesome
. electromagnetic energy. Released into the ethers each night as the
mind falls into the sleep state . . . and each morning as it returns to the
conscious state ... it will surely and certainly manifest that which has
been imaged. You can rely upon this ageless promise as surely as you
can rely upon the eterrtally unbroken promise of sunrise . . . and
spring.
Often, the initial manifestation of your quest is a series of strange
"coincidences," which are not coincidental at all . . . leading you to
certain books written about a variety of metaphysical subjects. You
can be led to such esoteric works in several ways. Sometimes through
a chance remark from friends . . . often through your own seemingly
aimless but subconsciously purposeful browsing. You'll soon learn to
judge yourself whether a book's contents are misleading or wise by
listening to the voice of your own Higher Self, whispering into your
inner ear. You'll learn to feel the messages in a short while. Some
books you may reject, and others you will inwardly know are teaching
a facet of universal truth you can accept.
This is not always but usually the first step you must take alone
before the manifestation of your own personal Guru, who will then
impart ancient wisdom on a warm and precious one-to-one basis. To
aid you with this initial step, I've included at the end of this book a

-- 37 of 676 --

xxxvi * INTRODUCTION
section from Love Signs called "For the Pilgrim's Progress," with some
additions. It's not intended to be a complete list of all worthy occult
and metaphysical works —just some of those to which I was blessedly
led on my own star quest for truth, and which I've personally found to
be deeply insightful. I believe they will be of equal help to you, but
you must, nevertheless, judge for yourself.
Reading about metaphysical subjects is normally necessary as a
preparation for personal counseling from your own Avatar. Aries
Thomas Jefferson said, U
I cannot live without books." One can, of
course, and some have risen to illumination without them, but they
are undeniably a swift shortcut to enlightenment.
After you've demonstrated your sincerity of desire by reading the
books to which you've trusted your own Higher Self to lead you, by
Universal Law, you'll be ready for your personal teacher, who will
instruct you in the Socratic method: by helping you remember what
you already know but have forgotten. Basically, the Socratic method
consists of the teacher asking the students questions, not telling thefti
something. When, instead of a statement being made, a question is
asked, the computer brain scans its stored memory bank (of this and
other lifetimes) and usually comes up with an answer you didn't even
realize you knew. But you do know — everything there is to know,
written indelibly upon the ethers, in what has been called the Akashic
Records. You can read them, as did mystics like Edgar Cayce. You
have only forgotten how.
Every action ever taken, every word ever spoken — remains —
on a higher frequency vibration — and may be magnetized back into
conscious awareness under certain conditions. To claim that you are
unable to do so is like owning a radio, possessing AM and FM, an On
switch — and numerous frequencies or stations — and saying that
there is no way you can tune in to WABC or whatever "spot on the
dial" you choose. An infant, of course, sitting before a radio switched
to Off, could not tune in to the various frequencies. And humans are
infants, relative to their present state of enlightenment. But all infants

-- 38 of 676 --

INTRODUCTION * XXXvii
eventually mature, as will all humans eventually reach spiritual matu-
rity. Remaining with this analogy, it's possible that, by some accident,
the radio before which the infant is sitting may be switched on and
music is heard. The infant didn't deliberately tune in to that "station,"
and has no idea where it's coming from ... but listens happily, and is
soothed by it. This is similar to an adult human who accidentally
experiences a flash of deja vu, clairaudience, or clairvoyance.
How will you and your teacher-Guru find each other ? One of
the oldest metaphysical adages, existing even before the recorded his-
tory of the Tibetan Priesthood, is: 'When the student is ready — the
teacher mil appear" As strange as such a prophecy may seem to you
as a beginning pilgrim, it is totally true. I know of many who have
experienced it, and I can attest to its truth and reliability myself, as I
have . . . through intense desire . . . found, over the years, three such
personal Gurus, Avatars, or Adepts ... not by seeking them, but
simply by desiring their manifestation, by preparing, and being willing
to wait until they appeared, wholly without my calling them. I've told
of only one such unannounced, startling manifestation I have per-
sonally experienced in the Preface to this book — and there are other
references in Chapter 3, Gurus, Ghosts, and Avatars.
1 assure you that you will discover more fathoms of peace, wis-
dom, and contentment by taking the necessary steps toward manifest-
ing an Avatar who will be considering nothing but your own per-
sonal illumination than by attending a hundred expensive seminars
or group workshops. And no money will change hands. All true
enlightenment and every final mystical initiation must occur, not
in groups, but in a close relationship between teacher and student.
When the student is ready.
No, these will not be "spirit guides" from another world, but
quite tangible flesh-and-btood people (some even possessing a minor
flaw or two to "keep their molecule^ together while present on an
Earth vibrating with such negative energy forces as currently"). Yes,
they will appear disguised as "ordinary" humans, albeit the awesome

-- 39 of 676 --

xxxviii * INTRODUCTION
magics they will demonstrate to you . . . sometimes in a startling way
... at other times simply through an unguessed wise manner of setting
examples you will slowly but finally comprehend. And so . . . the
safest and purest way to learn the esoteric mysteries is to properly
prepare yourself in the manner I've described for the manifestation
and certain appearance of a very personal teacher, who will lead you
into a comprehension of what you think of as magic, but which is only
a higher level of what you think of as reality. Remember that "meta" is
a Greek word meaning "beyond," therefore, metaphysics is simply
"beyond physics." Beyond the fiction of fact lies truth ?
Neither should you blindly accept, on your quest for truth, the
validity of the star sign codes of the Universe I offer in this book —
until you have practiced and carefully tested each one, so that you can
decide for yourself rather than take my word for it.
Mystical knowledge is power, and power will always tend to cor-
rupt. Spiritual wisdom is the priceless key of those who earnestly de-
sire to help others, as well as to attain personal joy and happiness —
and is equally the dangerous master of those who wish to control
others, who seek only personal benefit. When used with unselfish
motive, there is no end to the wonders such knowledge can mate-
rialize. But if used for selfish purpose, it will inevitably boomerang
back upon the user all manner of tragedies and disasters. This is one
of the great laws of the Universe, which cannot be broken. It is inflex-
ible, unswerving, and eternally undefeated.
Esoteric mysteries must be approached cautiously, with rever-
ence and compassion, with a genuine desire to use their magics to end
the world's suffering ... to relieve the pain of individuals . . . and to
bring happiness to friends and strangers alike. Yes, and also to en-
emies. Even especially to these. Then it will follow that joy and hap-
piness will likewise descend upon its user in abundance. Endless
miracles will manifest when love and peace rule in the heart of the one
who has mastered the arts and sciences of ancient wisdom with good-
will and loving intent.

-- 40 of 676 --

INTRODUCTION * xxxix
There is no more effective resolve to follow in these — and in.all
other matters — than the affirmation of Francesco Bernadone of As-
sisi, spoken aloud and sincerely meant each new morning of each day.
Lord, make me an instrument of your Peace
where there is hatred, let me show love
where there is injury, let me give pardon
where there is doubt, let me have faith . . .
where there is darkness, let me spread Light
where there is sadness, help me find Joy !
Grant that I may not so much seek . . . to be understood
as to understand
to be loved . . . as to love
Then . . . miracle shall follow miracle
and wonders shall never cease
******
The intention of this book is to reveal, among several other meta-
physical codes, a key to wisdom previously comprehended by only a
few initiated Masters, a secret hidden for centuries "in plain sight" (the
safest place to hide the sacred) and unsuspected by the mundane in-
tellect, long blinded to the simplicity of truth. I've christened this en-
lightenment Lexigrams, a method of acquiring astonishing insights
into a person or tt
a thing" by using the letters of the name, title, or
phrase in a certain way. Combining Lexigrams with Numerology (the
correct Chaldean -Kabala system) — which is also demonstrated in the
book — brings a new kind of awareness that causes the thoughts to
spiral into a penetration of the deeper enigmas of existence . . . accom-
plishing the same benefits obtained from transcendental meditation,
but more surely and more swiftly. More swiftly because the compre-
hension gained through Lexigrams and Numerology (as well as the
other codes in the book) is spontaneous, and creates a sort of spiritual

-- 41 of 676 --

xl * INTRODUCTION
chain reaction in the mind. More surely because these universal codes
do not require the difficult achievement of a total submission of the
personal ego and consciousness.
When prejudiced blindfolds are removed, answers to all conceiv-
able questions can be seen, even the proof of their validity, through a
multiplicity of codes and signs beyond — yet inseparable from —
astrology. As unrelated to planetary influences as these prisms of
knowledge may first appear, they nevertheless all initiate from the
Luminaries (Sun and Moon) and the stars or planets. They are the
Star Signs of wisdom, awaiting your discovery.
As with Love Signs, Star Signs contains a number of controversial
concepts of a moral, philosophical, and intellectual nature, in the areas
of science and religion.
To some of you, these concepts will be inspiring — to others they
will appear strange and startling — to still others they could be deeply
disturbing. They are presented here as truth, and will be recognized
as such by many of you — just as they may be viewed as otherwise by
some.
I've shared my personal discoveries of truth with you because 1
believe that any kind of search implies an obligation to exchange with
others what has been found, in the interest of hastening the sunrise of
harmony on Earth, the ultimate Peace.
However, I do not ask — nor do 1 even expect — any of you to
regard my concepts as your truth, unless they should happen to agree
with your own personal enlightenment and private convictions.
Partial truth — the seeds of wisdom — can be found in many
places. In primal instinct may partial truth be found ... in earthly law,
social custom, scientific research, philosophy, and religious doctrine.
The seeds of wisdom are contained in all scriptures ever written . .
especially in art, music, and poetry . . . and, above all, in Nature.

-- 42 of 676 --

INTRODUCTION * xli
But real Truth can be found in one place only — in every man's
and woman's communion with an eternal Source of hidden Knowl-
edge within — which each individual must seek and find for himself
or herself.
We may point out the path to others, but each must walk along
that path alone — until every single "lost one" has made the whole
journey — and all of us have finally reached the Light of full-born
Wisdom at the end of the Way . . . where we began, a long-forgotten
Time ago.
Linda Goodman

-- 43 of 676 --



-- 44 of 676 --

PREFACE
*

-- 45 of 676 --

xliv * PREFACE
It is with an odd mixture of misgiving, inspiration, and excite-
ment that I've decided to publish this book, based on a diary I kept in
Colorado in 1970. Misgiving because the concepts presented in it
raise issues likely to create some shock waves in the already churning
oceans of religious, philosophical, and scientific thought.
It's necessary to your comprehension of these "shock waves" that
you understand at the outset why this book was written. The expla-
nation will also allow me to shift part of the "blame" or the "credit" —
whichever word applies — for the far-out subjects of the text, since, in
reality, I had little control over the channeling of the material.
I've always written my books in such a way as to share many of
my personal feelings and experiences with you, my readers, because I
trust you — and I'm still following that pattern of taking you into my
confidence. It makes me feel closer to you, as it makes you feel closer
to me, which so many of you have told me in your letters.
And so, this is how it all came about.
Once upon a lonely time, when 1 was in California on a promo-
tional tour for my first book, Sun Signs, staying in the haunted suite
1217* of the Hollywood Roosevelt Hotel, a stranger knocked on my
door. The year was 1970. The month, January. New Year's Day.
Several years earlier, while I was talking with Lucille and David
Kahn in New York (my home at the time), we had drifted into a dis-
cussion about Masters, Avatars, Space People, Gurus, and Adepti.
David Kahn, since deceased, was the mentor of the well-known and
beloved mystic, Edgar Cayce — who encouraged Cayce's work and
provided his living expenses during the early years. For the longest
time I'd been mesmerized by the ancient Tibetan adage of, "When the
student is ready, the teacher mil appear," and so I asked David a
question.
"What precisely," I wanted to know, "does that mean ? How
* Now renumbered by the hotel's new owners as 1221.

-- 46 of 676 --

PREFACE * xlv
does such a teacher appear ? Does he just knock on the door some
unexpected day or night, and when you answer — there he is ?"
David and Lucille glanced at each other with a mysterious smile,
then David turned to me and replied quietly, "Well, yes . . . something
like that. w
. Now we can return to "once upon a time," a few years later, in
suite 1217, at the Hollywood Roosevelt Hotel, on January 1, 1970.
When I answered the stranger's knock, 1 saw standing there in
the open doorway a plump man, shaped rather like a Buddha, wearing
the incongruous combination of a proper business suit, suede loafers
— and a snow-white turban fastened in the center with a pearl stick-
pin. He had an irresistible, almost childlike smile and an impeccably
gracious manner. I soon learned he was an "initiated" Hatha Yoga and
a Zen Buddhist who had spent thirty years in a monastery in India,
under a vow of silence. I'd never heard of anyone being both a Hatha
Yoga and Buddhist, but then, 1 was still very much a novice in such
matters. His complexion was creamy olive; his eyes, not brown, but
black and piercing.
He apologized for the intrusion, saying that he had read my first
book, Sun Signs, and some of the passages in it caused him to perceive
that I was already aware of many mystical secrets, but was still quest-
ing for more "star signs" of truth — and he felt that perhaps he might
be able, in some small way, to guide me along the path of light. His
voice had musical intonations, with a pronounced British accent.
Later, he told me he'd been educated at Oxford, and had lived for
some time in London.
He offered no explanation of how he had managed to locate me,
and I didn't ask, feeling that such a direct question was forbidden by
some esoteric rule of conduct. I didn't know this, but I sensed it.
Of course I invited him to come in, curious, yet not alarmed. For
the next several hours we chatted like old friends . . . although . . .

-- 47 of 676 --

xlvi * PREFACE
there seemed to be a strange pattern to our talking. I had the impres-
sion that our speech was, in an inexplicable way, speeded up, because
our words wer'e exchanged so swiftly, almost without pause, sentences
tumbling over one another . . . and at times I could have sworn we
were speaking simultaneously, like a double track on a tape.
1 had a thousand and one questions for him, and each was an-
swered no less than profoundly. Excited and exhilarated as 1 was to
be learning so much in such a brief time, 1 felt a surge of regret when
he told me he would soon have to leave, because he was late for an
appointment at the Griffith Park Observatory.
"But before we part," he added, U
I have a message to relay to you
from the Masters of Karma, channeled through me by the Higher
Forces."
Oddly, such an unusual statement neither alarmed nor surprised
me. But it certainly fascinated me. "Message ? What kind of mes-
sage ?" I asked.
"About your future. There are some events ahead in time even an
astrologer as experienced as yourself cannot fully penetrate, because
they lie above and beyond the natal and progressed planetary
configurations."
"And what, then, is ahead in time for me ?" Involuntarily, my
pulse quickened, and I felt a sudden chill. He spoke slowly and very
deliberately.
"Soon you will be going to the mountains."
"The mountains ? Do you mean Tibet ? The Alps, . . . Switzer-
land maybe ? I've always wanted to go there."
He smiled enigmatically, and his reply was noncommittal. "To a
higher altitude. For the purpose of raising your vibratory frequency,
and receiving several gifts of illumination from teachers, who will ap-
pear without your seeking them."

-- 48 of 676 --

PREFACE * xlvii
"Without my seeking ?"
"Is that not how I came to you this day ?
"
"Yes, of course. Is it related, then, to the ancient Tibetan adage
I've heard that, when the student is ready, the teacher will appear ?
"
"Quite" (I was later to leam that was his favorite word of
approval.)
"Well, it all sounds rather spooky." I smiled, to show him I was
joking, but I was only half-joking. There was an unreal sensation
about this conversation. His next words were completely unexpected
. . . and shocking.
"After your retreat in the mountains, you will travel back here to
California, where you will meet your Twin Self."
"Twin Self ? Don't you mean Twin Soul ?"
"No. There is an important difference in the definition of the two
terms, as you will soon learn for the purpose of teaching others."
"Are you saying that I'll learn this difference while I'm in the
mountains, from the teacher I'll meet there without my seeking ?"
"Partially. But you will be fully enlightened to this only after you
have met the man who is. the other half of yourself. Following your
meeting, you will write a book about everything you will teach one
another. However, you must not make it available to your readers
until after you have written and published a book you will also write,
about your experiences of enlightenment in the mountains, which will
occur, in Earth Time, before you meet this man." He waited, but I
made no comment. Then he continued.
"After you've met, it will become clear to both of you that your
mutual mission, as written in the Akashic Records, is manifold. You
are to make others aware that such phenomena as magical cognition,
the seeing of auras, the power to ordain happiness and erase misery,

-- 49 of 676 --

xlviii * PREFACE
the ability to attain spontaneous remission of illness, and the achieve-
ment of immortality — do not belong exclusively only to a few Mas-
ters, but are possessed by all Earthlings, and may be developed to as
high a degree as they desire."
•Again he waited, and again I remained silent, not wanting to
express my reaction to these words aloud, as I thought to myself that
there was no way I could ever be capable of meeting such a challenge
as he presented, with or without the "other half of myself." He might
as well have told me that the following day I would be able to manifest
a spacecraft out of the ethers, hop in, press a button, and zoom off for
a weekend on Mars or Saturn. The manifold mutual mission he de-
scribed was so unattainable as to be amusing if it hadn't been so
overwhelming.
My silence didn't seem to disturb him. His enigmatic smile re-
mained, and his eyes continued to burn into mine like a laser beam.
After a moment or so, when it became obvious that I was not going to
respond, he simply went on with his incredible statements.
"An important part of the illuminations the two of you will seed
into the sleeping awareness of humans is the importance of love to
men and women, the various paths they may take toward a reunion
with the Twjn Self ..." He paused, and his voice took on a sterner
tone, making his next words sound like a warning. ". . . . and the
danger, once the other half has been found, of both becoming what
have been called 'fallen angels,' destroying their sacred, for-eons-
awaited Oneness through the grave sins of false pride, selfishness . . .
and unforgiveness. It is further written in the Akashic Records that
this, too, is part of the mission you and another assigned yourselves
long ago, to be accomplished in this present incarnation. The task
will be extremely difficult, but you must not allow yourselves to be
discouraged. You must also be aware that, if you should fail in your
mutual missitfn, there are others — not only others who will be simul-
taneously teaching the same truths — but others who will replace you,
should you give up. For the teaching itself is the priority, and it shall

-- 50 of 676 --

PREFACE * xlix
not be allowed to fail. Earth Time is growing short — so short that
the approaching moment of human choice between enlightenment
and extinction must now be measured by the year instead of by the
century.
Another pause from him. Another silence from me.
"Your task will require much courage, because you will face dis-
belief and ridicule. You will also face the challenge of many false
teachings, contradictory to your own, which are even now swiftly
spreading throughout the world. For these are the days of the false
prophets predicted . by John in Revelations in your Christian
scriptures."
My mind contained, superimposed, two thoughts. The first was
a surge of thankfulness that, at some time during our conversation, I
had asked him if he minded my turning on my small tape recorder, so
that I could later recall at least a portion of what he was telling me,
because I knew I was likely to forget much of it, or believe I had
dreamed the entire incident, and he had agreed. But, as I glanced
down, I saw that the tape had run out — I had no idea when. Then,
glancing at the clock on the table, 1 saw that barely a minute or so had
passed since I'd turned on the ninety-minute tape, and I knew posi-
tively that the things he had been saying, which were naturally still
clear in my memory, could not possibly have taken such a brief time
as a minute or so. It puzzled me, but more, it frightened me — in the
sense that all things not completely understood are frightening when
they occur.
The second superimposed thought was that his words had made
such a profound impression on me, I didn't trust myself to comment
— especially his statement that Earth Time is growing so short that
"the approaching moment of human choice between enlightenment
and extinction must now be measured by the year instead of by the
century." Consequently, until 1 had a chance to assess all of this
within, I knew I had to change the subject in self-defense. So I did.

-- 51 of 676 --

1 * PREFACE
Clearing my throat nervously, I finally spoke. "Forgive me, but
I've always believed," I pointed out rather smugly for a novice, "that
the Akashic Records refer only to past events and actions — to former
incarnations or lifetimes — and not to either the present or the
future."
He smiled again. "But what Earthlings call the Past, Present, and
Future are all one, you see — taking place simultaneously. By the
way, the word simultaneously contains within it the letters of the words
no time and time is a lie — which is what the word 'simultaneously'
really means. Think deeply about this."
I did. Very deeply. And it was at this instant that my enlighten-
ment to Lexigrams was born (Chapter 8).
He went on, his expression making it clear that he knew the
seeds he had just planted with that word had taken root, and would
soon flower. In fact, he seemed to be positively elated. His face fairly
beamed.
"I know it seems incomprehensible to you now, but after a while
you will understand, and when you do, you will have mastered how to
exist, for temporary periods, whenever you should wish, in what is
called the Eternal Now, a Higher Dimension of Time. There are many
such dimensions. Earthlings now exist in the Third Dimension, and
are ready to graduate into the Fourth Dimension."
His words chimed a carol somewhere in the back of my mind.
"For some reason," I told him, "what you just said about an Eter-
nal Now.reminded me of the lyric to a song about ... 'on a clear day,
you can see Forever,' my favorite tape cassette. I play it all the time.
It's the recorded score from the stage musical and later film, starring
Barbra Streisand, written by Alan Jay Lerner and Burton Lane, called
On a Clear Day. For some strange reason, 1 always seem to miss
seeing the film when it's playing in a theatre near me, but I love the
title song, especially the verse to it, before the chorus."

-- 52 of 676 --

PREFACE IV li
"Will you sing it for me ? I would very much like to hear it."
Shyly, softly, and unsure, I sang to him the words and melody as
well as I could recall them.
Spoken: "Why, Daisy ! You're a bloody miracle ! Could
anyone among us have an inkling or a clue . . what
magic feats of wizardry and voodoo you can do ?"
Sung: "... and who would ever guess . . . the powers you
possess . . . and who would not be stunned to see you
prove . . . there's more to us than surgeons can remove !
So much more than we ever knew ... so much more
were we born to do ! Should you draw back the curtain, S
of this I am certain . . . you'll be impressed with you ! On
a clear day, rise and look around you . . . and you'll see who
you are ! On a clear day, how it will astound you . . . when the
glow of your being outshines every star !
>m "You'll feel part of . . . every mountain, sea and shore. You
will hear, from far and near ... a world you've never heard
before. And on a clear day ... on that clear day . . . you can see
Forever . . and ever . . . and evermore ..." I finished, slightly
off key. .
y
He clapped his hands like a small boy. "That was beautiful ! It
describes so perfectly the powers possessed by all Earthlings, each
man and woman ... yet they remain unaware of it."
He closed his eyes for a heartbeat, then .....
/
"You have missed seeing the motion picture, On a Clear Day, for a
reason you do not as yet suspect. I believe that you and your Twin
Self will see it together . . . and that the seeing of this film together, the
'simultaneous' sharing of its seedings about Time and reincarnation,
will be the first experience to open your Third Eyes. For it will con-
tain certain subliminal messages for both of you.

-- 53 of 676 --

Hi * PREFACE
"Yes, it is a dear day when one finally comprehends the mystery
of making miracles. Thank you again for singing those words to me."
I blushed. "I'm sure I didn't sound like Barbra Streisand/' I mur-
mured, feeling a wave of embarrassment at having spontaneously
burst into song before a stranger. But his next words erased those
feelings.
"And why should you sound like her ? Your Earthling composer
and musician, Paul Winter, who plays to whales and dolphins in the
ocean, and who has played duets with wolves and eagles in the woods,
in the key of Earth, D flat, causing them to respond and 'sing' with him
in perfect harmony, made a wise observation. It would be a sad and
quiet, lonely forest ij no bird sang except the nightingale. And so, once
again, I thank you for singing to me."
"Thank you for your message," I replied. "It's such a lovely event
to anticipate, like a song in itself . . . some familiar but forgotten
melody I'm sure I'll hear in the back of my mind until the meeting
with my Twin Self really happens. Yes, lovely ... oh ! 1 just realized
that bvely and lonely are very similar words, but with such very differ-
ent meanings !" The Lexigram seeds he had planted were already
beginning to flower in my consciousness. As I spoke, I was thinking
of my own loneliness, an affliction I'd begun to fear was to be perma-
nent in my life.
"Yes, similar words, true," he agreed, "with, as you say, quite
different meanings. What makes them different is a third word, hid-
ing in one of them, that answers all questions, solves all problems,
heals all pain."
"What word is that ?" The Lexigram blossoms were unfolding,
and fascinating me.
He smiled. "The word love. Notice that the word lovely contains
the word love within it. The word lonely does not."
He paused. "Love is all."

-- 54 of 676 --

PREFACE * liii
tt
I see," I told him. And for the moment, I did.
For a timeless Time, then, we both remained silent. There was a
humming stillness in the room that seemed to vibrate like some sort of
energy force, the kind of stillness so tangible you can almost feel it,
you know ? I know this sounds contradictory, but the stillness grew
louder, until I became aware of a growing sense of uneasiness and
apprehension.
I looked at the clock. It was exactly twenty minutes past one
p.m. Twenty after. I remembered something my Irish elf mother
(grandmother) told me when I was a child. Something . . . Ill share
with you in Chapter 3 of this book . . and more of it in Chapter 8.
In the humming quiet between us, I was aware of the stranger
still staring at me, unblinking, his eyes like burning coals. I finally
found my voice, and asked him hesitantly, "Just exactly when — in
present time — am I supposed to be destined to meet this man who is
... my Twin Self ?"
u lt is written that your reunion shall take place near Christmas, in
December of 1970. As Time is calculated here on Earth ... at the end
of this year."
"Reunion ?" I was confused. "Since well be meeting each other,
I assume, for the first time, why do you call it a reunion ?"
"You will not be meeting for the first time. You have lived count-
less lives together in former incarnations — even in this present one."
This was too much for me to untangle. "But," I persisted, "if we
have not yet met in this incarnation, which I am absolutely certain we
have not . ... then why do you say, 'in this present one' ? It doesn't
make sense. It isn't logical. Is it some kind of a riddle ?"
"Yes, a riddle. One you may solve yourself, with his help, for you
will teach each other many things. And now I really must leave you."
He rose from his chair, causing me to feel a sharp stab of disappoint-
ment, because I knew that, this time, he would really leave.

-- 55 of 676 --

liv * PREFACE
Suddenly, the stab of disappointment was replaced by a surge of
inexpressible happiness, enveloping me like a fine mist, and 1 felt so
grateful to this kind stranger who had promised me such a perfectly
marvelous Christmas gift as meeting my own Twin Self. Who hasn't
secretly longed for just such a miracle ?
He walked toward the door, and I followed; then he stopped in
front of a table at the entrance to the small hallway of the suite. On it
was my miniature altar, consisting of an alabaster statue of St. Francis
of Assisi . . . Francesco di Bemadone . . . with his beloved birds and
animals ... a bowl of fresh daisies . . . and several votive candles
burning in ruby-red glass holders, like the ones in St. Patrick's Cathe-
dral on Fifth Avenue in New York City. I carry my small altar with me
when I travel, using it to evoke minor magic and ordain baby miracles
— for myself and others. It's rather like a portable cathedral. Of
course, one doesn't really need such accoutrement to manifest magic
or miracles. All one needs is a direct line of communication to one's
Higher Self — or, if you prefer, to one's own God, Whoever He, She,
or They may be — on the desert, in the woods, on a mountaintop, on
the shore, or even walking along a crowded city street. But, speaking
for myself, I feel the presence of angels with more certainty, and am
able to spiral my thoughts more purely, when my senses are thus
sweetly incited by subtle ritual.
My uninvited but most welcome visitor stood there before the
flickering candles, very still; then in a low voice asked me to close my
eyes while he offered a prayer.
1 did as he requested, bowing my head, and as I stood beside him
in the scented dark, the musty, mystical fragrance of my Morning Star
"church incense" seemed richer than usual, and my thoughts drifted,
until I became aware that he had placed his hand gently on the top of
my head, like a blessing . . . and then began to chant in a strangely
familiar, musical language, similar to the Latin of the Mass, yet which
was, I could tell, not Latin. The melodious sound of his chanting,
blended with the sweet scent of the incense in the black velvet behind

-- 56 of 676 --

I
PREFACE * lv
my closed eyes, after a while transported me back into a magical child-
hood Christmas Eve, when 1 had slipped through the huge carved
wooden doors of St. Raphael's Convent to hear the nuns singing
"Silent Night, Holy Night" in their soft voices, a capella ... I could
smell oranges and cinnamon in the air.
Suddenly, his chanting stopped, the light pressure of his hand on
my head lifted, and I reluctantly returned from the past to the present,
opening my "eyes slowly, as if awakening from a dream. When I
turned to say good-bye to my new friend, he was gone. Simply
disappeared.
True, I had come out of my trancelike state and opened my eyes
slowly enough for him to have had time to slip through the door — I
mean to have slipped out the door. Or would through it be more
appropriate ?
But I had heard no sound of the door opening or closing. Shiver-
ing, I took the blue-flowered comforter folded across the bottom of
the bed, sank down into the plump sofa chair by the window that
looked out on the small white cross, planted on the far hill behind
Graumann's Chinese Theatre across Hollywood Boulevard . . . tucked
my feet under, and wrapped the comforter around me.
It was a disturbing experience, but as 1 sat in the chair, snugly
enfolded in the soft clouds of the comforter, an errant thought swam
through the floods of my fear, from childhood's vast ocean of memo-
ries ... my Baptist Sunday School teacher mother's voice, quoting
from the New Testament . . . "Be not afraid, for thy Comforter shall
come." 1 smiled, then, to myself, at the incongruity of the play on
words. Cosmic acuity aside, I was on the verge of believing it had all
been a dream from the beginning. But there was the tape. And then I
noticed, on the glass-topped table beside the chair, the small white
card the stranger had handed me only seconds after I'd invited him to
come into the room. I hadn't really looked at it before, assuming it
was a business card. Now 1 saw that it was blank, except that printed

-- 57 of 676 --

lvi * PREFACE
in the center in small violet letters were the words: Expect a |
Miracle.
There was something else on the table beside the small white
card I'd been given. An unopened box of Goobers peanuts, the kind
sold in the lobby of every film theatre in America. This, the stranger
had definitely not given me, and I knew 1 had not placed the box of
chocolate-covered peanuts there myself. Where could they have
come from, 1 wondered, unless theturbaned one had left them there
when I wasn't looking ? That must have been what happened, 1 told
myself. There was no other explanation. But . . . why would he have
done so ?
The Goober's peanuts troubled me more than a little, because
they were, in a complex way, associated with a traumatic relationship
in my past. Back then, I had studied only the rudiments of basic
numerology (I was later to be initiated into this art and science in
more depth, during my predicted retreat in the mountains) ... so I
quickly scribbled down the numerical value of the letters in "Goober,"
and realized that the singular of the word must be spelled with three
o's — as Gooober. The plural had to be spelled with only two o's and
a u
z" instead of an V — as in Gooberz. The proper numerdogical
vibrations of words make worlds of difference. Again, I reminded
myself of my promise to the me-of-me, that I would learn more, when
1 had time, about this deeply mystical and powerful code of the Uni-
verse, taken from the Hebrew Kabala, and steeped in the traditional
wisdom of the ancient Chaldeans.
For a long time I sat in the chair by the window, trying to memo-
rize everything that had occurred during the strangers visit, so I
wouldn't later forget anything important, even the slightest nuance of
his words. Somewhere in my metaphysical studies in the past 1 had
heard of or read about those Rosicrucian Adepti (called by many other
names as well) who were able to disappear then reappear before one's
physical vision by changing their vibratory frequency of ang3trom

-- 58 of 676 --

PREFACE * lvii
units per second . . . speeding up the rate to become invisible to the
naked eye, and slowing down the rate to become physically visible.
I had heard — and read — of such magic, but that never pre-
pares one for the actual witnessing of it. I had not hallucinated.
There was, you see, the box of Goober's peanuts — and the small
white card.
If the stranger had not been real, but merely an etheral vision I
had invoked, then they could have appeared on the table only through
what is called "telaportation," and it was easier to accept that 1 had met
an Adept — after all, they most assuredly do exist — than to believe
that I had "apported" the chocolate-covered peanuts and the card.
******
Now I know my mind was programmed by the stranger on that
mystical, prismed New Year's Day to magnetize me toward the geo-
graphical location destined as the place for my next step in what he
had called illumination. Back then, however, once I'd recovered from
the initial shock of the arcane incident, 1 never imagined such a thing,
for I believed that I control my own mind, as we all do ... do we not ?
A few weeks after my return from California to New York, on a
snowy February day, I had lunch with a friend who had just returned
from a vacation in Colorado. She was full of her trip, as enthusiastic
as a travel agent about this colorful western state, the scene of the
tt
Pikes-Peak-or-Bust" gold rush of the 1890s — and disappointed that
she'd had to leave there so soon to get back to her job in Manhattan
before she'd had time to make a side trip to Cripple Creek.
"What is so special about Cripple Creek ?" I asked her.
"It's a tiny former gold-mining town, high in the mountains, ten
thousand feet above sea level. I believe the population is only a few
hundred people, waiting around, I guess, for the price of gold to go

-- 59 of 676 --

lviii .* PREFACE
high enough to mine it from the ground again. Cripple Creek is
nestled in a valley, with woods all around, protected by the Sangre de
Cristo mountain range — the Continental Divide. My brother and his
wife were there last year, and they say it's absolutely breathtaking . . .
so beautiful ... no humidity at all in the summer . . . pure air . . . and
snow-capped peaks, just like Switzerland ... or Tibet . . . and
The resr of her words faded in and out, because I'd been trans-
fixed the moment she had spoken the words, "high in the mountains"
"What does Sangre de Cristo mean ?" I asked her.
"The blood of Christ, 1 think. Anyway, my brother says most
people in the area believe that Cripple Creek is haunted. He told me
he had the odd feeling himself that he'd been there before ... a kind of
. . . what do they call it ... a d£ja vu ? So did Elaine. She told me that
she knew exactly where the Old Homestead was before anyone told
her. That's the oldest red-light house in the West, so we teased her
about why she knew . . . told her she probably worked there as "one of
the* girls" in her last life. But she also knew where the Abraham Lin-
coln gold mine was before it was pointed out to her. She said Tender-
foot Mountain and Mount Pisgah were places she felt she had seen
before . . . and some of the deserted log cabins on the edge of town
had a familiarity about them that made her feel . . . well, strange."
I said -nothing to my friend about my inner thoughts, but by the
time we'd finished lunch and parted — she, to return to the ad agency
on Madison Avenue where she works, and me, to walk slowly home to
West End Avenue through a flurry of snowflakes — 1 had made a
decision, remembering what 1 had been told about "the teacher ap-
pearing when the student was ready — high in the mountains." 1
would go to this haunted little gold-mining town and retreat for sev-
eral months, to test the stranger's prediction.
While I was there, I told myself, I would complete my next book,
Love Signs — and assuming that I somehow, while there, learned the

-- 60 of 676 --

PREFACE * lix
metaphysical secrets He had promised, I would also keep a diary as the
basis for a future book about my experiences.
So I flew to Colorado in April of 1970, and everything the tur-
baned one had prognosticated came true . . . some of it unexpectedly.
I learned many secrets from several teachers who appeared without
my seeking them. I also endured several personal tragedies in Colo-
rado while I was learning, but these you will not be reading about in
this particular book. Only the magic.
***
CRIPPLE CREEK, COLORADO
for gold miner and poet, Julian Davis
who loved each rock and tree
and who lingers still . . .for me
on Bennett Avenue
walking through the ghosts of living strangers
not one oj them so real as he
******
ten thousand feet above the level of the sea
high-hidden on the sunrise side
of the wandering Continental Divide
is a magical kingdom
where a clean wind blows
and the white star of Bethlehem glows through the clouds
of winter's snow-veiled skies
a microcosm Tibet
where the lonely and searching still travel

-- 61 of 676 --

lx * PREFACE
to mine the fools gold of wealth
or Nature's truer treasures . . . rooted there
as surely as the sturdy Bristlecone pines
those ancient mysteries few haw thought to seek
beyond the protective purple shadows
of the Sangre de Cristo guardian range
where lies the town called Cripple Creek
sleeping in a sweedy scented valley
surrounded by the scarred hills of man's greed
and the greener woods of meditative solitude
a Heaven-sent, sometimes hell-bent
community of fallen angels . . . and occasional saints
fighters and writers, cowboys and painters
the self-sufficient and the proud ... the tortured and the damned
yet even these infused with the alchemy
of transmutation into blessed
a singing Shangri-la
wearing the mask
of a tough, hard-hearted town
spilling over with yesterday's memories
and eight months pregnant
with tomorrow's not yet shattered dreams
where horses, cows, and velvet-eyed burros
wander the dusty roads and by paths
and "mountain canaries" sing the restless to sleep
where midnight is silent . . . and passions run deep
where raw courage is absorbed
from the mountains' mute strength . . . pure white
snows
and the brilliant turquoise sky

-- 62 of 676 --

PREFACE * Ixi
Teller County's glittering "Bowl of Gold"
of the new Aquarian Age
discovered by a trembling few, after passing through
the Tunnel of Time
then hearing echoes of coded whispers
in the twilight zone of neighboring Victor
Goldfield's haunted Bull Mountain
and Phantom Canyon's chanting Narrows
those reflections of Stonehenge
where the watchful Third Eye
can see the faint, still- flickering lights
of the druids' enchanted Twelfth Night rites
and the weary spirit learns to wait
for the eternally certain, however late
return
of spring's reincarnated promise
to the heart
Linda Goodman

-- 63 of 676 --



-- 64 of 676 --

1
LABORS OF LOVE
AND
THE MONEY MYSTIQUE
astrological career guide . . . and the
achievement of simultaneous financial
security and financial freedom
*

-- 65 of 676 --

2 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
he wanted to be a composer, a writer, a doctor . . . maybe an
artist
to heal, he said, peoples bodies, minds and spirits
it didn't matter which, just one of the three
and the healing of the other two
would surely follow, he believed
but he had become an engineer, and secretly despised it
the Highways of the State employed him •
as the Pharaohs employed the slaves in Egypt
to lift and measure stones to build their silent tombs
dusty roads ... are so unlike sterile medical laboratories
nor do ditches much resemble a vaulted concert hall
or the polished ceilings of an art museum
he did manage to save enough cash
to buy a typewriter
one-two-three dreams, you're out !
and who is the Umpire — Fate ?
******
mm
>
ow many engineers dream of being physicians, and
how many doctors dream of being engineers ? How
many scientists long to be musicians, and how many
musicians long to be scientists ? There are millions
upon millions of men and women who are discon-
tented, depressed, and unhappy square pegs in round holes (or round
pegs in square holes), whose talents, abilities, and "daydreams" (in
reality, the wise urgings of the Higher SelO are sadly mismatched with
the way they earn their daily bread. It's not only a deplorable waste of
manpower and womanpower, it's a tragic waste of human happiness
and joy, which are the birthright of every individual on Earth.
And so, before pondering and perusing the star-sign codes of
ancient wisdoms, you'll find it both sensible and practical to first fol-

-- 66 of 676 --

LABORS OF LOVE AND THE MONEY MYSTIQUE * 3
low the metaphysical paths to contentment and happiness in your
work, since it involves more than a third of your time — to learn how
to improve your financial affairs, since a certain amount of financial
security is necessary tQ free the mind to fly into the higher realms —
and to consider your health, because, of course, your physical well-
being takes priority over everything.
This is why I've decided to first present this chapter about Labors
of Love the Money Mystique and then the Apple a Day chapter, your
astrological and numerological health guide. Without these three
basic needs of the body and the mind, the spirit is not in the mood to
contemplate the deeper waters of esoteric mysteries. When you truly
love your work, when you can pay the rent or mortgage on time and
feel physically fantastic, then you can start skipping up the mountain
to Gurism. Note to Webster. I just invented that word.
When I first moved to Cripple Creek, Colorado, where I'd been
directed by the turbaned Guru, in the manner I related in the Preface,
I felt like a spiritual pilgrim who had located Tibet or Shangri-la.
Somehow, 1 sensed that many secrets and mysteries were hidden
among the bristlecone pines dotting the hillsides — and that "Guru"
had been right. I learned much during my retreat to the mountains
(which was later to become my permanent residence) — and wrote it
all down in the diary that was to become this book.
My first morning there I awoke happily sniffing the cool, clear,
pure mountain air, and immediately decided to take a walk through
town, ^consisting of five blocks of a paved street called Bennett Ave-
nue. All the other streets in this little Christmas-card town are dirt
roads, but with their own kind of magic. Every time it rains there,
which is nearly every day (meaning there's a rainbow every day over
my funny little crooked, slipping-off-the-time-track 1890 house) . . .
people walk around, both tourists and the 600 or so permanent resi-
dents, staring at the ground in this very strange way. They're looking
for spots of sky blue — in the dirt, not above. At the turn of century,
when this area was the thriving gold camp of the West (Pikes Peak or

-- 67 of 676 --

4 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
bust !) folks also mined turquoise. As the turquoise was carried in
carts, by burrows, much of it fell off and became imbedded in the dirt
— so that today, when the rains wash the dirt roads, pieces of tur-
quoise appear suddenly, here and there, like a sudden spring sur-
prise. All Indian tribes claim that turquoise carries powerful good
luck vibrations.
During my walk in a misty rain that early morning, searching for
a lucky chunk of blue stone, I bumped into the least likely Cripple
Creeker to become my first acquaintance in what was to be my new
adopted hometown: the Chief of the C.C. Police Department. His
name was — and is — Dale Simpson. He's a Pisces, with a soft voice,
a gentle smile, a typical Neptunian love of talking — and a talent for
also being a very good listener.
We introduced ourselves, then stopped at the Palace Hotel dining
room with its player piano tinkling away, for a chat and a cup of
coffee. (Imagine the Chief of Police in New York taking time out for
coffee and flapjacks to the tune of "Let Me Call You Sweetheart" !)
As soon as I discovered that he was a Pisces, I shook my head
doubtfully. U
A round peg in a square hole, or vice versa." I told him
chidingly. U I don't mean to be rude, or to offend you, but I can't
imagine why a Piscean like yourself would choose a job or a career as a
police chief."
Like most people ruled by the planet Neptune, he wasn't in the
least offended by my candid remark. He was curious.
"I don't know much about astrology," he admitted with a friendly
grin, "except that my sign is Pisces. Why are you so surprised at my
occupation ?"
"Well, because it's the last job that any astrologer, which 1 am,
would ever counsel a Pisces to pursue. You see, I happen to believe
that people should labor with love,' that the employment or career
should harmonize with each person's character, personality, and inner

-- 68 of 676 --

LABORS OF LOVE AND THE MONEY MYSTIQUE * 5
goals — or dreams — since that's the only way to be truly happy.
And . . .
." — I smiled at him — "I can't see a Neptune-ruled Fish being
happy performing the duties of a police chief — although there are
other Sun Sign people who would find such an occupation challeng-
ing and stimulating."
"That's interesting, and I'd like to tell you why it is. But first, will
you explain how you know all that ?"
"As I said, I'm an astrologer, and I've made a study of it. I'm
continually amazed that people don't take it more seriously, when it's
such a reliable guide to career success — and to every other area of
life. There would be lots more contented and successful people if, for
example, those who were born to be associated with the theatre as
actors, directors, producers, and so forth, didn't settle for, say, the
medical profession — or those who were born to be lawyers weren't,
instead, pursuing a profession in landscaping . . . and so on. They
become more frustrated with their lives every year, and it never occurs
to them why they are unfulfilled. They don't realize that they're
round pegs in square holes, or vice versa. Being completely happy
with and challenged by your work is one of the surest ways to make
your dreams come true. Now, you promised to tell me why you
thought what I said was interesting."
"Maybe one of the reasons so many pegs and holes don't match,"
Chief Simpson mused with natural Neptunian insight, "is because the
parents don't try to help their children find out what they really want
to become in life, but instead, intimidate them into preparing for a
profession Mother and Father think is right, and the child has no
choice until it's too late."
I wondered if this had been the case with Dale Simpson and his
own parents. But if so, it had probably started long before the job as
Police Chief, and I didn't feel it would be polite to ask.
"I'm sure not going to make that mistake with my children," he
continued, staring out through the screen door at the entrance to the

-- 69 of 676 --

6 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
dining room as if he were lost in thought. "They're on their own when
it comes to their future."
"That's a very Piscean attitude," I told him, "a hands-off policy.
With children, friends, relatives. Like Aquarius, Pisces believes in the
motto of live and let live. It's a rare Fish who tries to interfere in
anyone else's life, except to now and then make a suggestion — and
even then usually only when asked. But . . . why did you say it was all
interesting ?" I persisted.
"Because," he answered slowly, and more than a little sadly,
"you're absolutely right about what you said. I can't say that this job
fulfills me in any way. Mostly, it frustrates me and drains me of
energy."
"That's because crime and punishment, or disciplinary action of
any kind, are not pursuits natural to your disposition. You're too
sympathetic to apprehend 'bad guys.' An association with guns and
violence — shooting and arrests — all that goes against your very
essence. It's a wonder you haven't become ill from it. However,
you'd make a good Sherlock Holmes-type detective, without the vio-
lence and arrests. You're naturally equipped to solve mysteries. As a
Pisces, your personal mission is to help other people solve their emo-
tional and psychological problems — sometimes simply by being an
understanding, compassionate listener. You need to be involved in
something that allows your imagination full scope, in an artistic or any
other kind of career — where you can dream yourself into discovering
startling answers to things. Albert Einstein was a Piscean, and he
certainly brought imagination to mathematics, with his abstract math
and theories of Relativity."
"You're right about the possibility of becoming ill too," he
nodded. "I've already had one mild heart attack, and I've had a half-
dozen other minor health complaints the past few years I never had
before. I've always had a strong constitution . . . until recently. I've
been thinking about retiring and finding something else to do. What

-- 70 of 676 --

LABORS OF LOVE AND THE MONEY MYSTIQUE * 7
you've said may help me make the decision. By the way, everything
you just mentioned about Pisces people ... the sympathetic under-
standing . . . and helping people in all those ways . . . sure fits a Pisces
woman I know here in town. Her name is Ruth Cook, and she
teaches grade school. Everybody around here says she's the best
teacher in the County." He chuckled. "Maybe in the whole State.
And like you say, she loves every minute of her work. She's doing
what comes naturally for her, no doubt about that. And the kids in
her classes really learn. She makes them want to. They're all crazy
about her, because they know she cares."
"What is your wife's Sun Sign ?" I asked.
"Junie is a Scorpio. She works at the Post Office, and she enjoys
it there. I think she must be a round peg in a round hole." He
laughed. "Is that a good job for Scorpio ?"
"Great. Scorpio is a Fixed Sign, and Fixed Signs are born Orga-
nizers. They're good at what's called watching the store,' experts at
pulling the strings together to make everything go smoothly. I'm glad
to hear your Scorpio wife handles the mail. Makes me feel a lot more
secure about today's Pony Express."
"The Postmaster, Bud Sanders — he's a Scorpio too."
"Terrific. I've been losing so much confidence in the postal sys-
tem these days, I've almost felt like sending birthday cards Federal
Express. With two Scorpios in charge here, I can stop worrying. Sen-
ator Muskie was quoted in The New York Times last month as saying
that the Government ought to turn over the problem of inflation to the
United States Postal Service. He said "they might not be able to solve
it; but they could sure slow it down." We both laughed.
"Junie replaced another friend of ours, LaVerne King, who was
with the Post Office for years before she retired LaVerne is a Virgo."
"Fantastic ! Virgos have an innate ability to bring order out of
chaos. I'll bet all the zip codes were correct when she was there. I'd

-- 71 of 676 --

8 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
almost think somebody around here uses astrology for hiring your
postal people."
Before Chief Simpson climbed back inio his police car after his
coffee break with me, he said he'd like to know more about astrology
and professions, if I had time to tell him someday, so I promised to
type it out for him.
Here's an expanded version of the astrological career guide I pre-
pared for Chief Simpson, including all twelve of the Sun Signs.
But first, consider the truest words ever expressed on the subject
of working, written by the poet from Lebanon, Kahlil Gibran, who
warned that work must be performed with genuine love, or it's a waste
of time and energy; that if you cannot work with love, it's better that
you do nothing until you do find such work, meanwhile accepting
charity from those who do labor with love. For, as Gibran expressed
so beautifully, "bread baked without love is a bitter bread, that feeds but
ha\j man's hunger"
There are thousands of parallels to that wisdom. If you're a
singer who hates your audiences, your performance feeds but half
their hunger for music. If you're a writer who would secretly prefer to
be an attorney or a doctor, your written words will feed but half the
hunger of your readers, and your books won't sell. If you're a teacher
who would rather be an actress, your instruction will satisfy but half
the thirst for knowledge in your students. And so on. The examples
are endless.
The personal unhappiness and failure to achieve resulting from
round pegs in square holes (and the opposite) is not a new discovery
by any means. But sometimes a truth is repeated so often it loses its
meaning, the edge of its brilliance becomes dull, and it needs the razor
sharpening of a new image, or a rediscovery.
Remember that you were born to excel in some kind of occupa-
tion, profession, or career. There is something you can do better than

-- 72 of 676 --

LABORS OF LOVE AND THE MONEY MYSTIQUE * 9
anyone else in the world, by bringing to it your personal touch of
magic, based upon the individual character, personality, inner mo-
tives, and dreams of your Sun Sign — (also based on certain other
aspects in your rectified horoscope, but the Sun Sign is an excellent
place to begin).
The Sun "leaves" one sign and "enters" the next at a different time
on each cusp day, depending on the year. Therefore, if you were born
on a cusp day (i.e.: April 20th or May 21st or August 23rd, etc.), you
must know the hour and minute of your first breath on that cusp day
to know which is your Sun Sign. Any astrologer can give you this
information quickly.
When you have determined your Sun Sign, use the following
career guide to begin the path toward your personal Labor of Love.
CARDINAL SIGNS are: Aries Cancer Libra Capricorn
If your Sun Sign is Cardinal, you were born to earn your daily
bread as a LEADER of thought and action. You'll never be truly con-
tent in a subordinate position, carrying out the concepts of others,
unless you're using it merely as a stepladder to the top. To labor with
love, you must either be the Big Boss — or be your own boss. You
must either be at the head of things, the one in charge — or be self-
employed as the captain of your own ship, so to speak. Working in an
occupation that prevents you from conceiving and exploiting your
own ideas could result in physical fatigue, mental tension, and emo-
tional depression, which can eventually lead to chronic illness.
All four Cardinal signs were born to lead or to be self-employed.
However, the kind of work most harmonious with the spirit is
individual with each of the four Cardinal Sun Signs, depending on the
Element of the sign, i.e.: whether you're a Cardinal FIRE sign Leader
(Aries) — a Cardinal WATER sign Leader (Cancer) — a Cardinal AIR
sign Leader (Libra) — or a Cardinal EARTH sign Leader (Capricorn).
Aries: You'll be successful in a profession that harmonizes with your
Cardinal FIRE nature. Fire translates into anything exciting and capa-

-- 73 of 676 --

THE KARM1C WHEEL OF LIFE
EAST
THE SYMBOLS
Aries T Libra — Mars 6 Pluto 9
Taurus 8 Scorpio J[\f Venus 9 Jupiter %
Gemini II Sagittarius ? Mercury 9 Saturn h
Cancer ® Capricorn 55 Moon D Uranus rfl
Leo 7 Aquarius 3% Sun O Neptune W
Virgo TTV Pisces *€

-- 74 of 676 --

LABORS OF LOVE AND THE MONEY MYSTIQUE * 11
SUN SIGN BIRTH PERIODS
ARIES: Part of March 20th into April 20th
TAURUS: Part of April 20th into May 2 1st
GEMINI: Part of May 21st into June 21st
CANCER: Part of June 2 1st into July 22nd
LEO: Part of July 22nd into August 23rd
VIRGO: Part of August 23rd into September 23rd
LIBRA: Part of September 23rd into October 23rd
SCORPIO: Part of October 23rd into November 22nd
SAGITTARIUS: Part of November 22nd into December 21st
CAPRICORN: Part of December 21st into January 20th
AQUARIUS: Part of January 20th into February 19th
PISCES: Part of February 19th into March 20th
ble of arousing instant enthusiasm in yourself and others. You need to
"lead the parade on a white horse," trailing red ribbons and pink bal-
loons — and to have the opportunity to display your talent for pen-
etrating straight to the heart of any issue. You belong in any endeavor
that allows you to attract attention and be recognized, preferably
where there's someone to lovingly protect you from your often mis-
placed trust, naivete, generosity, and rashness — but not fence you in,
because you cease to function when you're not totally free to give of
yourself and impulsively pioneer all kinds of new beginnings. You'll
cheerfully and successfully initiate just about anything. You're a great,
even a flawless "opener." But leave the closing of deals and the tying
up of loose ends to others, please. Thank you.
Cancer: You'll be content and inspired in a profession that harmonizes
with your Cardinal WATER nature. Water translates into anything
absorbing, deep, constantly moving, with an aura of mystery to. stir the

-- 75 of 676 --

12 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
imagination. In your occupation or career, whether in education or
one of the Arts, you need considerable privacy while you work — to
be able to hide within your, crab shell while you move first sideways,
then backward, until you're good and ready to lunge forward, straight
ahead. Your profession must leave lots of room for your vivid imag-
ination to expand and provide plenty of time for travel, with frequent
changes of scenery, but you'll always need a home base. You'll remain
deliciously contented when your occupation is one requiring you to
take customers or clients to breakfast, lunch, or dinner very
frequently. Working in any field associated with food or money in any
way whatsoever is your idea of "heaven." You're also superbly suited
to "mothering," "fathering," or taking care of others. Cancer cares.
You belong in an endeavor where you can keep most of your dreams
and plans secret until you sense it's time to implement them — one
that will bring you a certain amount of public attention (though you'll
deny this !) — and which allows you to live near your mother.
Libra: You'll labor with love in a profession that harmonizes with your
Cardinal AIR nature. Air translates into anything that lets you keep
moving mentally and involves the intellect. You're an excellent ar-
bitrator and judge of crime and punishment (but not violence). You
need some son of outlet for your innate sense of fairness — to be able
to balance the pros and cons of everything and everyone around you.
You'll be more fulfilled and successful when you work in partnership
with a compatible and harmonious person (but not another Cardinal
Sign, please — unless you mutually decide at the outset which one is
to be the leader. If it's another Libra, the two of you will never
decide !). You'll be a blessing in any career that allows you to settle
disputes among others, pour oil over the troubled waters, and hold
periodic discussions and debates, whether you manufacture, sell, or
demonstrate cosmetics (Libra is the sign of beauty !) — or shovel
manure on the farm.
Capricorn: You'll labor with love in a profession that harmonizes with
your Cardinal EARTH nature. Earth translates into anything that's
solid, stable, and practical, with a firm foundation and a strong growth

-- 76 of 676 --

LABORS OF LOVE AND THE MONEY MYSTIQUE * 13
potential. You're happier leading behind the scenes, in most cases,
but there's always the exception that proves the rule. You were born
for an occupation or a career where you can guide and counsel others
(if you're not self-employed) — where you can use your vast store-
house of past experience to enhance your unsuspected perception of
the future. Job security (or career or professional security — same
thing) is what will always magnetize you toward any occupation. No
pie-in-the-sky gambles for you.. You're happy only when you're
involved in a gold-embossed sure thing, with the potential of taking
you up to the very top of the career mountain, where you've been
headed since you were twelve years old. There's never been any
doubt about it.
FIXED SIGNS are: Taurus Leo Scorpio Aquarius
If your Sun Sign is Fixed, you were born to earn your daily bread
as an ORGANIZER of thought and action. You'll never be happy or
succeed in reaching your true goals when the organizational structure
is left to others. To work with love, to achieve fulfillment in your
career or profession, and all that goes with it, you must be the one
who's unquestionably responsible for the success of any company or
venture you're part of, whether it's your own or someone else's — and
surprisingly often, you'll be equally fortunate when it's someone else's
rather than your own. You're completely contented only when you're
type-cast, so to speak, in the role you play so well: that of "keeper" to
others in the astrological zoo who need one, and goodness knows
there are lots of those ! You must be the one who "makes it all hap-
pen," who properly delegates authority and pulls all the loose ends
together everyone else leaves flapping in the wind, causing things to
run smoothly and efficiently. Let the Cardinal Signs lead the parade,
let the Mutable Signs communicate back and forth, you need to feel —
indeed, to be — the rock everyone leans on, the one who holds the
center together. Becoming permanently involved with any occupa-
tion that gives you no responsibility for what goes on around you
could result in physical fatigue, mental tension, and emotional depres-
sion, which -can lead to chronic illness.

-- 77 of 676 --

14 ir LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
All four Fixed Signs were born to organize and be responsible for
the outcome of whatever they're involved with. However, the kind of
work most harmonious with the spirit is individual with each of the
four Fixed Signs, depending upon the Element of the sign, i.e.:
whether you're, a Fixed EARTH Sign organizer (Taurus) — a Fixed
FIRE Sign organizer (Leo) — a Fixed WATER Sign organizer (Scorpio)
— or a Fixed AIR Sign organizer (Aquarius). .
Taurus: You'll labor with love in a profession that harmonizes with
your Fixed EARTH nature. Earth translates into anything solid, sta-
ble, and practical, with a firm foundation and a powerful potential for
growth. You need to gather all the facts, then sit on them quietly (and
• often stubbornly !) until you believe it's time to act on them, always
after careful consideration. You'll labor with love in any field that
allows you to checkmate the impulsive behavior of others, while
building a sound future for yourself. Structuring huge empires and
large corporate operations for yourself — or others — is what magne-
tizes you and makes it possible for you to sit behind a desk and burn
the midnight oil. You will be deeply depressed unless you're involved
in a career or a profession that gets bigger and better every year,
whether you're into banking, farming, real estate — or the production
of teddy bears.
Leo: You'll labor with love in a profession that harmonizes with your
Fixed FIRE nature. Fire translates into anything exciting, original,
daring, and capable of constantly inspiring you. Working in a situa-
tion that doesn't permit you to take charge and organize everything in
sight will bring on your Lion's roar of angry frustration. You need to
express yourself openly, creatively, and artistically in some way — and
you must be respected and appreciated, or you won't be worth a
nickel — to yourself or anyone else. You know best how matters
should be handled, and you must never become involved in a position
where you're expected to follow orders based on how others believe
things should be done. You're right nine times out of ten, you really
are — and to be curbed in your efforts to implement your always
original, always expansive concepts will make you a most unhappy

-- 78 of 676 --

LABORS OF LOVE AND THE MONEY MYSTIQUE • 15
person indeed. Running the show is an absolute necessity for you,
and when you finally settle into an occupation or a career where your
superior talents are recognized and respected, the resulting self-esteem
will guarantee huge success. Any occupation that permits you to
bring about dramatic results is the answer to your huge need to be free
— just to be yourself — and prove what you can do to people who
don't suspect how wise you truly are.
Scorpio: You'll labor with love in a profession that harmonizes with
your Fixed WATER nature. Water translates into anything absorbing,
deep, silently progressing, with an aura of mystery capable of stirring
the floods of imagination. In whatever career you choose, you need to
be permitted to penetrate its heights and its depths, to experience
intensely — and to gather knowledge about all facets of your occupa-
tion or profession, so that you can retain it for future use. You have an
inner conviction (whether you realize it consciously yet or not) that
"knowledge is power" — and power leads to success. When your su-
perb ability to "watch the store" is exercised, you really watch the
store ! Nothing escapes your Eagle eye. What you don't actually see,
you sense, with your highly developed insight and intuition. You be-
long in any field that will allow you to investigate its assets and its
liabilities, and permits you to work alone as much as possible, so you
can put into practice your inflexible standards of excellence. You'll
apply your keen investigative talents to anything you touch, because
you can't rest until the mystery, the problem, or the troubled situation
is cleared up or solved. You prefer to be left to your own devices, and
you strongly resent your methods being questioned, even by superi-
ors, whether you're in acting, politics, or plumbing.
You're not the type to burn bridges behind you prematurely, be-
cause your strong will and churning emotions are usually checkmated
by your realization of the value of caution and practicality. (I said
usually !) Consequently, you may not express your displeasure for a
long time. You'll keep your feelings within, and appear to go along.
But when you sense that the time is right, and you've reached a posi-
tion of self-sufficiency, you'll make it quite clear that it's to be done

-- 79 of 676 --

16 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
your way — or you'll leave. Case closed. By the way, if Piscean Police
Chief Dale Simpson had been born under either Capricorn or Scorpio,
he wouldn't have been a round peg in a square hole. Detective and
police work aren't the only harmonious pursuits for these latter two
Sun Signs, of course, but they are certainly among them. A Capricorn
police chief, however, probably wouldn't be satisfied until he rose to
Police Commissioner — and a Scorpio police chief would be strongly
inclined to perhaps use the job as a springboard into politics. But
neither of these two Sun Signs would be troubled by exposure to the
necessary scenes of violence connected with such professions as Pisces
would be. Also, Capricorn and Scorpio would find it easier to admin-
ister appropriate punishment to criminals, in fact, to punish the rest of
us, too, when we goof
!
Aquarius: You'll labor with love in a profession that harmonizes with
your Fixed AIR nature. Air translates into anything which is — in
your case — unpredictable, unorthodox, unexpected, changing —
and involves the intellect. You need to be permitted to concentrate
while standing on your head, should the mood strike you, so you can
come up with those astounding lightning flashes of insight and ge-
nius. You'll never be either happy or successful in an occupation that
requires you to conform to a strict schedule. Yes, you're a peachy-
dandy organizer, but you have to do it your way. Your curiosity will
cause you to invent new methods of doing just about anything, and
you'll be impatient with work done the same old way as always. You'll
add your own pretzel twist to the way things are done. Since your
gregarious nature attracts friends easily, and you like people (if you're
a typical Water Bearer), you'll likely become pals with your co-work-
ers and your boss. You'll find it hard to see the difference between
them, with your broad and normally tolerant brotherhood and sis-
terhood charisma. You'll be more contented in a job or career that
allows you to answer mainly to yourself, since your flashing streak of
originality needs plenty of space and freedom to tum old methods into
innovative new ones. As a Fixed Sign, you won't "suffer fools gladly,"
and when you're pushed to follow orders you believe are outdated and

-- 80 of 676 --

LABORS OF LOVE AND THE MONEY MYSTIQUE * 17
inefficient, you can become more than a little stubborn, which is why
you should seek freedom of expression in your line of work above
financial compensation, in the beginning at least. You belong in any
position or career that allows you to sort out the jigsaw pieces of
problems, then abracadabra them into brilliant solutions — and per-
mits you to play marbles with jelly beans on your lunch break.
MUTABLE SIGNS are: Gemini Virgo Sagittarius • Pisces
If your Sun Sign is Mutable, you were born to earn your daily
bread by being a COMMUNICATOR of thought and action. You'll
never be happy when you're forced to be responsible for the chaos
around you, when you're expected to sit behind a desk, or remain in
any one place and take charge. You'd be miserable "leading the pa-
rade" like the Cardinal Signs or "watching the store" like the Fixed
Signs. You need to constantly circulate, travel, move around, and
communicate ideas (and ideals) between the Cardinal Leaders and the
Fixed Organizers. You'd be equally happy being self-employed, as-
suming that your self-employment allowed you to communicate to the
public some new and different viewpoint of standard ideas, preferably
either abstract or inspiring. To work with love you must have com-
plete freedom, a variety of activity, periodic change, lots of coffee
breaks, long lunch hours, and interesting assignments. Working at a
job that ties you down in any way, forces you to take complete charge
and be responsible for the actions of others could result in physical
fatigue, mental stress, and emotional depression, which could lead to
chronic illness.
All four Mutable signs were born to communicate. However, the
kind of work most harmonious with the spirit is individual with each of
the four Mutable Sun Signs, depending on the Element of the sign,
i.e.: whether you're a Mutable AIR sign Communicator (Gemini) — a
Mutable EARTH sign Communicator (Virgo) — a Mutable FIRE sign
Communicator (Sagittarius) — or a Mutable WATER sign Commu-
nicator (Pisces).
Gemini: You'll labor with love in a profession that harmonizes with

-- 81 of 676 --

18 • LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
your Mutable AIR nature. Air translates into anything that's unpre-
dictable, keeps you floating around, and challenges your sharp intel-
lect. Although you're so versatile, you could be successful in just
about any sphere of endeavor imaginable; you'd really have it made if
you published a new dictionary or spent your time making up new
crossword puzzles. Choosing professional bridge or chess as a career
would bring you certain fulfillment, but never mind, you'll play men-
tal chess with your co-workers in any occupation lucky enough to pin
you down long enough to say you work there ! You need a career that
will allow you to bring to it your great capacity for variety — one that
will permit you and your Twin (your own alter ego) to sweep out the
dusty corners both symbolically and literally and open up the win-
dows to let in the fresh air of new thoughts and ideas. You belong
where you can use your considerable charm and vivid imagination —
where your quick intelligence and verbal glibness is given free rein.
Never allow yourself to get stuck in a position where you're expected
to punch a time clock, or you'll be miserable. I know a Gemini man
who counsels students, nine to five, at a college. The counseling part
is fine, but he's most unhappy with the lack of change in his job. Yet,
he's determined to remain a few more years until he gets his retire-
ment benefits. (It's his Cancer Ascendent and Cancer Moon Sign.) As
unhappy as he is, he won't do anything to lose the security of retire-
ment. He should leave his ever-present Twin sitting behind the desk,
and let the other Twin start looking around for something new and
exciting to do with his life.
Virgo: You'll labor with love in a profession that harmonizes with your
Mutable EARTH nature. Earth translates into anything practical, sta-
ble, well-planned, and capable of paying you what you're worth.
(You'll insist on the last.) But that needn't be synonymous with stuffy
or boring. You need a chance to purify the disorder around you, with
your clear thinking and exquisite sense of discrimination. You belong
in any endeavor that can benefit from your cool head and mild man-
ner, for you very much need to be needed — but which also gives you

-- 82 of 676 --

LABORS OF LOVE AND THE MONEY. MYSTIQUE * 19
gobs of time to be alone, far from the noisy zoos of chattering people.
Your ability to see mistakes, your talent for spotting the flaws everyone
else misses make you indispensable wherever you settle down to do
your thing. If you work for yourself, say as a doctor or a lawyer, you'll
make fewer errors in judgment than others in these professions — and
in the latter case, you'll be a genius at discovering the faux pas of the
opposing attorney's briefs. In the former, no one would need a
"second medical opinion"* after your diagnosis, since you'll have con-
sidered .every detail of every symptom and every test several times
before giving a verdict. You'll never find personal fulfillment or suc-
cess being a leader. You're ideally equipped to let others lead while
you help them keep a tight ship. You need a career where your ability
to find error is an indisputable asset, not a liability, as when Virgo
President Lyndon Johnson (who was a square peg in a round hole)
cheerfully announced that he was helping to solve the energy problem
by turning out all the electric lights in the White House himself each
night. Presidents should be Cardinal or Fixed, never Mutable. John
Kennedy was one of those "exceptions that prove the rule." Still, he
led as a- Mutable Communicator, undeniably.
Sagittarius: You'll labor with love in a profession that harmonizes with
your Mutable FIRE nature. Fire translates into anything exciting,
original, slightly dangerous, or challenging in either a physical or a
mental sense. You need an occupation where you can express yourself
enthusiastically, where your idealism is appreciated. You simply can-
not stay in one place. You need a change of scenery at the very mini-
mum of once a year, and you may even have thought of joining a
circus as a way to escape humdrum monotony. There's a saying
among astrologers that Sagittarian Archers retire before they get their
first job, an exaggeration meant to convey your restlessness and need
for change. Some Archers leave home as early as twelve or fourteen to
chase "the impossible dream." Let's hope you never realize quite all
your impossible dreams, because life would then begin to lack luster
for you. You'll bring a touch of magic (and an Emmet Kelly, clownlike

-- 83 of 676 --

20 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
humor) to any profession with a degree of risk to it, from the stock
market to mountain climbing. You belong in a field that dares you to
take chances, to gamble on tomorrow's sure win — where you can
contribute your triple whammy of winging optimism, inspiration, and
idealism, including, but not limited to, sports, religion (which has
always intrigued you) or space travel — wherever you can zing those
arrows of truth. The atmosphere of the place where you hang your
Dorfman hat for temporary periods between vacations must be cheer-
ful and outgoing, open and completely candid, packed with congenial
people. You can't stand "sneaks," but if you should get yourself fired
for calling your boss* one, don't worry, you'll get a new job right away.
Who wouldn't want a merry, lovable Centaur-racehorse around ?
You're honest to a fault, and now I hear you complaining that honesty
* is not a fault. It depends on how brutally truthful you are. People's
feelings are sensitive, you know. An employer (or even a co-worker)
just doesn't like being told, "Gee !. You're a really good-looking guy in
spite of that big bump in the middle of your nose. And I don't think
people should call you camel-nose." Take it easy, okay ?
Pisces: You'll labor with love in a profession that harmonizes with your
Mutable WATER nature. Water translates into anything that definitely
moves around, as water must do, is many layered or multi-leveled,
somewhat mysterious — and flexible. You'd be a great trouble
shooter for The New York Times or a department store — an equally
terrific Priest in the Confessional, psychiatrist, psychologist, or mar-
riage counselor.
People are going to be dumping their problems on you anyway,
so you might as well get paid for listening to them, and that's not a
materialistic view, just sensible — because the people who come to
you will never fail to be greatly benefited, and your fee will normally
not be more than they can afford, so it's money well spent. With your
nature, however, you'd probably forget or neglect to send a bill for
your services, so you'd need a good accountant or business manager.
All things considered, you're probably better off to just give your lis-
tening ear free of charge, so it doesn't trouble your conscience, and

-- 84 of 676 --

!
LABORS OF LOVE AND THE MONEY MYSTIQUE * 21
earn your bread in some field that urgently needs your sensitive per-
ception and uncanny ability to solve mysteries. Even a field like sci-
ence. Einstein was a Piscean, you know. He brought the Neptune
vision and far-out concepts to mathematics, resulting in the creation
of a whole new and thrilling dimension of time and space. Pisceans
enjoy swimming in artistic and creative waters, where they are unde-
niably contentedly at home, yet more Fish should dive into the ocean
of science, where the Neptunian sixth sense, open Third Eye, and
innate intuition are qualities desperately needed to bring about a long-
awaited Utopian marriage between science and mysticism. If these
reluctant mates don't marry soon, so that technology and esoteric wis-
dom become One, it may be too late for the wedding — and there
won't be any place to go on the honeymoon, if you comprehend what
I mean, which, if you're a psychic Piscean, you will.
You have little desire to lead any parade, unless you're one of
those rare, more aggressive "shark-type" Fish, and you're happiest
when you're helping others find'the way to self-discovery. Your gentle
manner and subtle humor are an asset to any kind of business. You'll
find more opportunities to succeed when you choose a profession
where you can develop your uncanny ability to dream and make your
dreams come true. Any occupation that allows you to demonstrate
your rare capacity for listening sympathetically and nurtures your
imagination will bring you self-fulfillment. Both children and adults
sense immediately that you truly care about them, and your very pres-
ence has a healing effect, whether you labor with love in a hospital or
in a greenhouse. Plants know you love them too !
There's no use making a list of specific professions, careers, and
occupations for each Sun Sign, because that doesn't matter in itself. It
can be any kind of career or employment you can think of, as long as
the kind of work done within that profession is harmonious with one's
nature. It doesn't make any difference whether a Cardinal sign (Aries,
Cancer, Libra, Capricorn) is involved in fire fighting or an advertising
agency, as long as he or she is Fire Chief or the President of the adver-
tising firm (or at least, at the head of its major accounts). It doesn't

-- 85 of 676 --

22 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
matter whether a Fixed Sign (Taurus, Leo, Scorpio, Aquarius) is asso-
ciated with a florist or a dairy, as long as he or she is responsible for
organizing the productivity involved, and is in charge of the activity.
It makes no difference whether a Mutable Sign (Gemini, Virgo, Sagit-
tarius, Pisces) has chosen the profession of writing, the law, or Big
Government, as long as he or she can spend the working hours
communicating with everyone, and not leading or being responsible for
what's happening. The same Virgo, for example, who would make a
superb writer, needing very little editing, should never try to run a
publishing house. The Virgo who would make a meticulous and suc-
cessful lawyer would be miserable as head of the Bar Association.
Virgo President Lyndon Johnson, for example, received as much high
praise for his well-performed job as Senate Majority Leader (commu-
nicating with other Senators and government officials) as he received
criticism for his attempt to lead the country. Follow the natural path
of your Sun Sign. If you're a Leo, it's okay to be a farmer, burmake
sure it's your own farm, and a very large one !
******
Like everyone else, you have experienced from time to time in
your life, even when you were in grade school or high school, flashing
images in your mind of vivid scenes. Scenes of yourself as a Senator,
an actor or actress, a scientist, a Chef in a French restaurant, a news-
paper columnist, an attorney, a Judge, a teacher or professor, a tele-
phone operator, a secretary, a designer, an architect, a baker or a
candlestick maker. You have called these flashing images "day-
dreams" or "wishes." Wishes are the dreams you dream when you're
awake.
Your so-called "daydreams" are urgings from your own Su-
praconscious, not merely "wishes" to be briefly enjoyed, then wistfully
forgotten. These images originate from the wise Angelof your Higher
Self, who repeatedly urges you, by seeding into your mind a picture of

-- 86 of 676 --

LABORS OF LOVE AND THE MONEY MYSTIQUE * 23
what you were born to do, to take your destined place in the jigsaw
puzzle of Life.
Some of you who are reading this are saying to yourselves, "But
I'm too young to pursue such lofty ambitions" — or Tm too old for
anything like that to happen tome." Nonsense. As you'll learn in the
chapter on Physical Immortality in this book, chronological age is a
complete illusion, only made to appear real by the false programming
of the mass collective subconscious for centuries. What you do has
absolutely no relationship to when you do it.
George Bernard Shaw was 94 when one of his plays was pro-
duced. Mozart was seven years old when his first composition was
published. When he was 20, Mickey Mantle hit 23 home runs in his
first full year in the major leagues. Golda Meir was 71 when she
became Prime Minister of Israel — and she was a woman yet ! Wil-"
liam Pitt II was only 24 when he became Prime Minister of Great
Britain. Ted Williams, at 42, slammed a home run in his last official
time at bat. Benjamin Franklin became a newspaper columnist at the
age of 16 — and a framer of the United States Constitution when he
was 81. A woman I know named Rachel planned to be a concert
pianist, changed her goal suddenly because she loved to cook, and
baked brownies for friends. Her business now grosses seven million
dollars a year. She didn't think she was too young or too old. She
simply followed her own daydreams with persistence.
You say you have tried to pursue your daydream images but they
must have been a false lead to your destiny because you have failed to
materialize them over and over again ? You call that the reason you
haven't yet manifested your personal miracle ? It's not the reason, it's
just an excuse.
Once upon a time there was a young man who was born to pov-
erty-stricken parents. He wasn't able to go to school, so he taught
himself. He dreamed of being a lawyer, but no one would hire him.

-- 87 of 676 --

24 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
When he completed military service, he decided to use his self-admin-
istered study of the law to enter politics, so he ran for a seat in the
Senate. He was defeated by a large majority.
So he temporarily retired from the law and politics and became a
storekeeper. His store went bankrupt, and he spent the next seven-
teen years of his life paying off his debts, picking up whatever odd
jobs he could. But his daydreams continued to urge him on.
He fell in love, married, struggled to support his family, and then
again entered politics — as a candidate for Congress. He was elected
by a very narrow margin, but when he ran for re-election, he was
humiliatingly defeated.
Next, he tried to get a position with the United States Land Of-
fice, but they refused to hire him. It seemed that everywhere he went,
he was ridiculed because of his poor background, his lack of educa-
tion and social graces. He held up his head, ignored his hurt pride,
and decided to run for the United States Senate. Both his friends and
enemies, even his family, laughed at him behind his back. Once
again, he was defeated.
Eventually, he was nominated for Vice-President at the political
convention of a major party. On the final ballot, he lost again — to a
political unknown. Running again for the Senate, he waged a cam-
paign which captured the imagination of a nation, but which resulted
in only another defeat.
Still, he never stopped following his "daydreams." He didn't
dwell on his failures. He continued to intensely and fiercely pursue
the ideals and. principles in which he believed. And finally, at the age
of fifty, wounded by heartache and scarred by repeated defeats, but
still clinging fast to his destined life path, Abraham Lincoln became
President of these United States.
More recently, in the late 1970s and early 1980s, a student at
Harvard named William Gates made a courageous decision to drop

-- 88 of 676 --

LABORS OF LOVE AND THE MONEY MYSTIQUE * 25
out of college and pursue his personal vision. His dream was to give
computer microchips more power, a chip telling them what to do and
how to do it. After relinquishing the certain future his Harvard degree
would have guaranteed, he got together with a couple of bright ge-
nius-type young men and formed a company called Microsoft. IBM
leased his innovation for their own computers, and in 1986, about
three years after he took his big gamble, his company was generating
several million dollars annually, and his own shares were worth 540
million dollars. He followed his dream. He believed in his vision.
His daydreams were real to him. William Gates heeded the flashing
messages from his Higher Self, the true prophecy of his future. Have
you listened to yours ?
Don't discard your daydreams as impotent wishful thinking.
Listen to them with your inner ear. See them with your Third Eye of
wisdom. "Let those who have ears, hear; let those who have eyes,
see." Follow your "daydreams" energetically, intensely, fiercely —
courageously, even when it means temporarily sacrificing financial se-
curity. Your "daydreams" are your blueprint for success and hap-
piness. Believe in them. Believe in yourself. Then follow "the
second star from the right . . . and straight on till morning !"
******
There's a mystique to money most people never realize. It's more
than just paper and coin. As a medium of exchange among people all
over the world, it possesses an unguessed power of its own, and when
the secret of that power is recognized and put into use, money will
multiply in several amazing ways. Learning the secret of money is one
thing. Using your knowledge of its secret is another — and often
difficult to grasp for many reasons we're now going to analyze, for the
purpose of erasing them — which is the only way you'll ever achieve
true financial security and financial freedom simultaneously. Here's a
verse expressing the secret of money poetically. Then we'll discover
the practical side of it.

-- 89 of 676 --

26 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
******
. . . and tonight I'm remembering
those bubbly moments of bittersweet
when a tapped-out stranger stops us on the street
to ask you for a dime or a quarter
a fellow Earthling, who's lost his or her way for a while
you always smile, then give the lost one five dollars
or ten . . . or twenty
even when you're broke yourself
and it's your very last five ... or ten ... or twenty
then, when the Taker looks shocked, as they always do
you call back, over your shoulder
"Listen, if you want any more
just give half of that away .
don't save it for a rainy day !
rain rhymes with pain
. . . give rhymes with live !"
******
Using the astrological career guide to lead you to your own "labor
of love" is helpful knowledge, but there's no avoiding the fact that it's
all linked to success, which to most people means money or financial
security — an association difficult to escape in our present society.
One can't be much help to one's self or to others in this day and age by
walking barefoot down dirt roads, or preaching and teaching along the
#eashore. Even a sleeping bag and a bowl of soup for the homeless
requires money. In addition to your personal necessities and helping
the homeless, there are also those organizations dedicated to saving

-- 90 of 676 --

LABORS OF LOVE AND THE MONEY MYSTIQUE * 27
the planet on which we all live from annihilation. Achieving that
miracle likewise requires money.
There's little chance for the survival of either individuals or the
planet unless and until we all get it together swiftly enough to halt the
approaching manmade and natural cataclysms. As it once was in At-
lantis, it is again history's eleventh hour for a multitude of reasons,
from acid rain to the insanity of the nuclear arms race. The possible
Gotterdammerung is now being measured by the year instead of by
the century. Therefore, because Time itself has become the Great Dic-
tator, we need the green energy of money to make a difference in time
... this time. There's enough of it to go around, if it were handled
differently, and not hoarded. There is nothing negative in having
money, only in how it's spent or used by those who possess it. Green-
peace, for example, needs the green energy of money to continue its
efforts to save the whales, dolphins, and seals from cruel slaughter and
mindless extinction. We urgently need organizations like Green-
peace, the Sierra Club, and all other such dedicated groups — and
they need money. A brief but powerful verse, written by this book's
consulting editor, Robert A. Brewer, a marine biologist, expresses with
consummate clarity what I'm trying to communicate.
where were you
when the great whales were crying out for mercy
and the fish were disappearing
from our poisoned rivers and streams ?
did you write one letter ?
did you sing one song ?
or did you just sit there
telling yourself
that your letter would not be read
your song would not be heard ?
where were you
when the Earth began to die ?

-- 91 of 676 --

28 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
******
Actually, there are only three reasons why anyone works.
(1) The most common reason for working is to earn your daily bread
to pay for your basic necessities, which you need in order to survive
and be able to go to work, so you can get enough money for. your basic
necessities, which you need so you can continue to work to earn the
money to pay for your . . . and so on. It's called the treadmill. exis-
tence, and aptly named.
(2) To become immensely wealthy — or famous. Whether the goal is
the former or the latter or both, these people fall into the same
category.
(3) To keep one's self from fading into a nonperson, which you would
surely become if you couldn't do the work you're doing, because it's
an obsession, a dream that consumes you — and you don't do it to
earn your daily bread — you do it for the reason that it provides
"hyacinths for the soul." You would do it even if you were paid no
money at all, because you can't help doing it. Quite simply, you love
it. Your work is a labor of love. Therefore, you're guaranteed to
achieve inner fulfillment, outward success — and if you're genuinely
devoted to the dream — also bushels of money, und£r Universal Law.
(4) These are the rare ones who inherit their money, and who don't
actually work at anything but hiring people to make sure their inheri-
tance doesn't disappear, and that their wealth increases through in-
vestment. They're hardly worth considering, since there are so few of
them. The sons of wealthy empire builders seldom inherit, along with
the money, the father's driving ambition (or dream obsession). Occa-
sionally, a grandson does, but . . .
Obviously, what is needed is some sort of gigantic miracle that
could transmute or convert all the bored, weary, and frustrated people
in Group 1— and all the tense and hyper people in Group 2 —
happily into Group 3. Don't you agree ? Of course, it won't be easy,

-- 92 of 676 --

LABORS OF LOVE AND THE MONEY MYSTIQUE • 29
since Groups 1 and 2 share the same blindness to the reality of the
Money Mystique.
You would think, wouldn't you, that everyone would make an
intense effort to become pan of Group 3 ? It's logical. But it doesn't
always happen that way. You see, the people in Group 2 think they
don't need to join Group 3, because they believe they already have the
formula for success, although they're gravely mistaken. The equally
misguided people in Group 1 aren't sure just what it is they want, and
even when they are, the necessity of survival takes priority because the
ideal labor of love for them individually doesn\always beckon from
the Classified Ads during the same week the rent is due. Thus begins
the endless treadmill of existence. And since humans are, unfortu-
nately, creatures of habit, well ...
Universal Law regarding money is mysteriously contradictory.
Never mind all those self-help books that purport to tell you how to
do it. No matter which formula they counsel is used, working hard to
make money is not how you make money.
The immense fortunes in America (and the same rule applies to
other countries) always have been and always shall be built upon the
deceptively fragile foundation of a dream by men who labored with
love and were obsessed by an idea. When they added the letter U
L,"
for love, to the idea, it became an ideal that eventually, inevitably, and
miraculously brought benefit to the world, while simultaneously pro-
ducing a never-ending flow of money. Women obsessed by an idea-
ideal that resulted in changing the world and accumulating a for-
tune ? None have been permitted such achievement yet, but their
time is swift approaching, for "women's dreams are made of sterner
stuff, and they will manifest soon enough." (I guess it's all right to
plagiarize a line from one of my own poems ?)
Consider the great wealth accumulated by Group 3 people like
Frank W Woolworth, Andrew Carnegie, George Westinghouse, the
original Henry Ford and John D. Rockefeller — and Howard Hughes.

-- 93 of 676 --

30 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
(I refer to Hughes, Junior, not Senior. The latter belonged to Group 2
— and never mind the negative things you've been told about the
former. Ninety percent of it is made up of deliberately planted ties
and distortions, which will soon be exposed in particular forthcoming
books.)
These incalculable fortunes were built by men who didn't give a
ginger snap about making money. They were single-mindedly con-
sumed only with the dream, the idea transmuted into an ideal, by
adding the T for love of their work. Then the money materialized in
awesome and ever-increasing amounts, under what the science of
metaphysics calls the Universal Law of Magnetic Attraction — and the
first rule of that law is to work with love — to pursue your daydreams
until they lead you into a labor of love.
There have been only a rare few in Group 2 who set out to accu-
mulate wealth, with money being the sole motive, who have suc-
ceeded in permanently achieving that goal. Most fail dismally,
without ever coming close to their images of King Midas and his gold.
The large majority of the remaining, who temporarily appear to have
succeeded, aren't able to retain their wealth. Because it doesn't bring
them a trace of genuine happiness, inevitably their inner depression
causes them to make some miscalculated move that eventually results
in the loss of their wealth in various ways.
Those rare few who don't fail to accumulate, and who don't expe-
rience the misfortune of losing their wealth, end up as pathetic crea-
tures, full of abject misery, looking and behaving (as only one
example) like "poor" J. Paul Getty, who, regardless of his enormous
fortune, refused to pay the ransom for his grandson's life until the
kidnappers sliced off the boy's ear and mailed it to him. To end up
like these rare few who manage to hang on to it (but can't take it with
them when they go) could hardly be the desire of any sane person who
perceived the certain future of such avarice. Charles Dickens's
Scrooge was more than a fictional character to be considered during
the Christmas season. He is a prototype of particular Group 2 people

-- 94 of 676 --

LABORS OF LOVE AND THE MONEY MYSTIQUE * 31
in every society, perhaps somewhat exaggerated to get the point
across, but very real.
When the Money Mystique is ignored, whether through greed or
through ignorance of the Law, the money gained either gradually
dwindles away — or is accumulated to the level of stagnation within
the spirit of the one who hoards it, bringing all of the accompanying
miseries of the fear oj loss.
"Oh, ye of little faith ! Why are you so concerned with your
riches ?" shouted Francis of Assisi in the Vatican to the jewel-en-
crusted Bishops and Cardinals, who blushed with shame and flushed
with rage that this ragged, barefoot monk should dare to criticize his
"religious superiors."
As for Francis of Assisi, remember that there are some who en-
gage in a labor of love, yet do not accumulate bushels of money. "But
this is not a denial of the Laws of the Money Mystique. It occurs
through personal choice because these few unintentionally discover,
along the way, something of equal importance to them individually:
that a modest financial security permits them to periodically retreat
from the madness of society and commune with Nature, while this
same modest financial security also allows them to devote much of
their time to relieving the suffering of those still existing in the dark-
ness of ignorance, i.e.: voluntary monks, social workers, and teachers
who love to teach. (Teachers today are so grossly underpaid, they
have to fall into this category, or leave the profession.)
The Universal Law concerning money is simple, as all great truths
are simple — i.e.: the Nazarene's Golden Rule and Lincoln's Get-
tysburg Address. Unfortunately, however, simplicity is the very qual-
ity that causes ancient wisdom to be so difficult for humans to master.
Adult humans, that is. Children grasp it quickly and naturally, until
the power of their innocence is gradually diluted and finally destroyed
by the growing process, through the constant conditioning and pro-
gramming of their minds with falsehoods by adults (who were once
children themselves). A vicious circle.

-- 95 of 676 --

32 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
In fact, the Money Mystique is so very simple, you'll have to
struggle hard to obey it and practice its rules, experiencing a great deal
of both mental and emotional pain in the attempt — until you finally
escape the withering clutch of thejear of loss and conquer it. Becom-
ing a joyful member of the brotherhood and sisterhood of the Money
Mystique requires, like everything else, that you pay your dues.
The first rule is to find what kind of work will allow you to labor
with love, thereby entering Group 3. The second rule is giving. Once
you've followed the first rule, you'll soon be earning money far and
above your basic needs. After you've paid your debts and taken care
of all of your essential needs of living (which include, in addition to
necessities, also vacations, rest, travel, and "hyacinths for the soul") —
then give away half of every remaining surplus dollar you earn
through working with love. Let go. Repeat: let go.
HALF ?! I can feel your shocked response. I hear it in the
voices and see it in the faces of each of you reading this ... as 1 sense it
in your minds. Yes, half. The word is not a misprint or a typo. Just
give it away ? Yes, just give it away. After you have also spent it
freely to gain your reasonable personal requirements for happiness,
which may include a cottage in Wales, for all I know. As long as you
don't concentrate on accumulating it and investing it, so that "money
earns money," (which is against Universal Law) it doesn't matter
whether you give it or spend it, relative to its continuing to increase.
The giving pan — as opposed to letting go through freely spending —
is an additional booster to the continuation of the flow and required
by the Law of Karma for personal happiness, the reward of spiritual
enlightenment.
As I've already warned you, the law is so absolutely simple, you
will have extreme difficulty in (1) comprehending it (2) believing it
and (3) practicing it.
After you've openly and freely (not cautiously and fearfully) tried
it only once, you'll need no further convincing, because this amazing

-- 96 of 676 --

LABORS OF LOVE AND THE MONEY MYSTIQUE • 33
Law will then go into effect. Within a shockingly brief period of time
(which will vary, depending on several factors) the money you
"crazily" — "naively" — and "extravagantly" gave away will not only
return to you, it will return in an increased amount, often threefold or
fourfold ... in a completely unexpected manner, from a likewise
completely unexpected source.
Don't ever loan money. Give it. It will return, and always multi-
plied, but (and this is important) not necessarily or always from the
same source where it was given — rarely from the one to whom you
gave. It will return from the Universe itself, which is synchronized to
the harmonics of the Law of Giving.
The Money Mystique may bring a few shudders to stockbrokers,
bankers, and insurance companies, but it needn't. When the initial
shock wears off, stockbrokers will realize that investments in new
companies and corporations may not meet the spiritual requirements
met by giving, but does meet the Money Mystique requirement of
circulating green energy into the Universe. What they do with their
personal funds can then follow the circulation law, plus the booster
law of giving. As for insurance companies and salesmen, they can
ease their trembles by knowing that reasonable insurance for families
and people who are too ill to work is certainly acceptable. It's the
large fortunes in insurance that break the laws of the Money Mystique,
causing relatives to wish for the insured one's death, to fight shame-
fully among themselves . . . and too often even lead to murder.
Bankers ? They needn't be overly concerned. What they will
lose in interest on unnecessarily large Savings Accounts they'll more
than make up for through the increased flow of the new checking
accounts resulting from spending and giving. Bankers have all their
bets covered ! What do I mean by the harmonics of the Law of Giv-
ing ? All of Nature gives freely, or there would be no grass, no flow-
ers, no fruit. No trees. To tune in to this all-embracing Giving, which
returns a thousandfold, is to become one with Nature Herself. The
apple tree doesn't say, "I'll give only to the deserving." Nor does the

-- 97 of 676 --

34 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS "
gentle, brown-eyed cow, with her milk. For, without giving freely,
the apple tree would die; the cow's milk Gike hoarded money) would
dry up and cause her to be ill. The Sun, also a Giver — of warmth and
light — shines upon the godly and ungodly alike, with the same life-
giving energy. All of existence depends upon giving-. . . to exist.
The secret of the Money Mystique is that the green energy of
money travels in a magnetic circle. Let go of it, and it follows that
invisible circle of pure and powerful energy, infallibly returning to you
multiplied, flowing through you and outward in its circular path (like
the boomerang mystery) — and back again. Over and over, continu-
ously, without end. You will have become, then, the center for this
energy, the catalyst for its flow — and it will never stop returning to
you, each time increased. Bread cast upon the waters does return, as
the carpenter taught, including the daily bread you earn from working
with love. It will cease only when you cease to give. Then the magic
circle is short-circuited. The Law operates, remember, on the princi-
ple of electromagnetic energy, much like Nikola Tesla's alternating
current. Don't allow a temporary small sum of money cause you to
cease to give. If you have only twenty dollars, spend or give away —
circulate — ten dollars. The key word is that your small sum is
temporary.
To suddenly let go, and discover the miracle of how to thereby
literally obtain wealth, is hard. You've been conditioned and pro-
grammed since childhood to be "frugal, cautious and economical — to
be practical and hang on to your money." Consequently, it's natural
for you to believe that what I'm writing here is utter nonsense. But I
hope you don't. You may think that the counsel of "letting go" —
giving — or even spending (as 1 pointed out, the Universe doesn't care
which, as long as you toss it in some manner back into the world at
large) is a ridiculous way of obtaining money. If you were told, when
you only possess, say, four hundred dollars, and therefore can't afford
to buy or even rent the house of your dreams, to spend two hundred
dollars of the four hundred to buy a special lamp or quilt or chair for
the house to guarantee you'll soon be living in it, you'd probably ask:

-- 98 of 676 --

LABORS OF LOVE AND THE MONEY MYSTIQUE * 35
"How can I get money by giving away or spending what little I have ?
It's not logical. It's extravagant."
Think whatever you like. As I said, I'm sure you will soon be-
come convinced of the truth of the Money Mystique the first time you
decide to try it. All I can tell you from my own experience is that
following the law of the Money Mystique has never failed me. But I
can speak only for myself. If you're still suffering from the grip of the
fear of loss, why don't you do that ? Speak for the elf of your own s-
elf. You'll be surprised at what happens to the you-of-you.
1 wish I could make everyone understand how exciting it is to
synchronize yourself with the harmony of the Universe pulsing
around you, and tune in to giving. There's such a wild sense of eu-
phoria that comes when you realize you're free of the chains that
bound you to the green paper called money — when you finally com-
prehend that the swiftest and surest way to get it is to give it. It's
FREEDOM ! An overwhelming and sudden awareness — a knowing
— that you're no longer tied to the desperate need to fear and worship
money. You'll be pleasantly shocked to realize, at last, that it's only
paper ! And dirty, wrinkled paper at that. Like a discarded chewing
gum wrapper. There is no possible way to express such a feeling in
words. You must risk the initial sharp pain of letting go, and experi-
ence it yourself. Follow the law of the Money Mystique, and watch
what happens within a "self" — your own s-elf — you only thought
,
you knew.
Wealthy people like the Rockefellers, the Fords, the Kennedys,
and so on, have always given, and their accumulation of money never
stops. Granted, the motive has", for the most part, been one concerned
with corporate tax write offs. But that's one of the strangest things
about the Money Mystique. Its laws aren't concerned with motive
once the magnetic energy circle has been spun into motion — only
with the circulation of green energy back into the Universe from
where it came. The motive for giving does matter, of course, to the
advancement of the heart and spirit, but the motive doesn't affect the

-- 99 of 676 --

36 * LINDA GOODMANS STAR SIGNS
boomerang action of money's circular route and multiplied return.
Perhaps ... the Law isn't affected by motive because the very act of
letting go itself creates so much intense energy it neutralizes all mo-
tives into good. Whether or not you use it to penetrate the mystery of
money is up to you. Free Will is a precious gift.
The astrological alchemy for making the big leap into Group 3
I've already given. When you've found your personal labor of love,
you'll soon begin to accumulate enough green energy to start your
own magic circle of giving. But neither I nor anyone else can force
you into illumination. The time for growing-knowing is individual,
dictated by your own Higher Self. That's always the best way. To
judge for yourself. It fattens the intuition and makes it grow.
A Mantra for the Money Mystique
I've been broke, but I've never been poor. Being broke is tempo-
rary. Being poor is a state of mind.
— Mike Todd
******

-- 100 of 676 --

2
AN APPLE A DAY
an astrological and numerological health guide
including vegetarianism —
and other current problems
and their esoteric, holistic solutions
v. *

-- 101 of 676 --

38 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
AN APPLE A DAY
. . . keeps the doctor away
... the most persistent memory fragment
of the time when I started to talk
is the recollection . . . after I'd learned to walk
of everyone fearing I would catch pneumonia
from running out into the rain
before that, I crawled out into it, in pure bliss
they were forever warning . . .
"you are sure and certain to catch pneumonia"
only they said it pronouncing the u p" and a double "e"
to make me laugh
and for years I called it that . . . pee-nee-monia
"you'll catch pee-nee-monia for sure and certain"
I would shake my finger and tell my dolls
******
hat little girl and her dolls were the victims of a
highly contagious epidemic of medical fear. Astrol-
ogy teaches with absolute verity that (for one exam-
ple), if at birth there was no affliction related to the
Ascendent and/or the sixth house of health in Pisces
or Gemini — and no planet afflicted by a malefic in Pisces or Gemini
(Gemini ruling the lungs, and Pisces associated through the mutable
cross of sympathetic parts of the body) — there is no way that you are
ever going to succumb to pee-nee-monia, or^ven pneumonia. Never
mind how much the foregoing sentence sounds like Greek to the as-
trological layman, you can depend on it being true, with no exceptions.
With none of these Pisces-Gemini afflictions in the birth chart,
you could sleep in the rain overnight or be caught in a snowstorm and

-- 102 of 676 --

AN APPLE A DAY * 39
not contract pneumonia. Likewise, with none of these Pisces-Gemini
afflictions in your birth chart (and this will drive the American Cancer
Society into a frenzy of fury) — whatever your birth aspects, someone
smoking a cigarette near you, or several people smoking across the
room will not cause you to develop lung cancer (the latest dire warn-
ing from the white-coated gods of the ACS). The only way that what
is called "passive smoking" can affect you is if you find the smell of
tobacco unpleasant. Some do, some don't. I find the odor of alcohol
personally offensive, but it's certainly not going to cause me to develop
the disease of alcoholism. The exposure of. your lungs to the carbon
monoxide emissions of cars and buses, compounded by industrial
smog, is deadly to all of us, but that person lighting a cigarette at a
nearby table will not give you lung cancer. That so many actually
believe such a ridiculous and unfounded claim is an example of how
easy it is to hypnotize or program the human brain with repetitious
lies of any kind.
Granted, smoking will certainly not benefit your lungs or any
other organs which may be the weak links in your body chain — and
not smoking or smoking low-tar cigarettes in moderation, and not
inhaling, is the best choice for your general health — but lung cancer
you will not get, assuming the aforementioned birth chart. Even with-
out the latter you will not be in any way affected by a smoker in the
room, any more or less than you're affected (or offended) by the reek
of alcohol fumes or, if you are a vegetarian, by the stench of butchered
animal flesh cooking nearby.
Every profession has its flaws — and its black sheep. The medi-
cal profession is no exception, although its image makers would like
us to believe otherwise. Like Caesar's wife, modern medicine has
been "above reproach" for the past half century or longer.
It was not always thus. The pendulum swings. During the time
of the Civil War and through the turn of the century, the credibility of
the medical professions was questionable, to say the least. Physicians
bought large ads in newspapers and tacked up flamboyant posters

-- 103 of 676 --

40 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
(which you've probably seen reproduced on wallpaper in the rest
rooms of certain restaurants) offering medical panaceas they claimed
would simultaneously cure your sore toe and chronic backaches, stop
nosebleeds, cause luxuriant hati to grow on your bald head, relieve
constipation, banish hives and boils, bad breath and snoring — and
resolve your marital problems. It must be admitted that, if one elixir
did all that, it would surely make anyone's marriage substantially
happier !
Patients were "bled" by Dracula-like leeches attached to their skin
to remove impurities from their bodies — and when a lone and dedi-
cated physician, Dr. Ignaz Semmelweis, dared to suggest (and proved
it) that fewer women would die from the puerperal infection called
"childbed fever" if the attending doctors and midwives would simply
wash their hands in a chlorinated lime solution before delivering the
laboring mothers of their infants, he immediately became a pariah in
the medical community. His death in an insane asylum was the re-
ward bestowed upon him by his professional peers for his stunning
contribution to life.
Then the AMA was conceived and born (I trust by those who first
washed their hands) — the powerful American Medical Association —
whose members soon aligned in spirit with the FDA, the Federal Drug
Administration, in a mutual mission to clean up shabby medical and
drug practices, with the goal of changing the carnival sideshow image
of both the healers and the pharmaceutical alchemists who com-
pounded the chemicals the former prescribed. Medical schools with
strict academic requirements were established, high standards of eth-
ics were imposed . . . and abracadabra ! The tackiness disappeared,
replaced by hygenic medical practices and dogma, further glamorized
by the sterile chrome laboratories and operating rooms of the newly
emerging and exciting field of medical research. Slowly, but very
surely, medicine grew into the status of almost a religion, supported
by congregations of patients in awe of its white-coated high priests,
who would not tolerate the slightest criticism of themselves or their
profession, and, in fact, demanded a kind of respect that nearly

-- 104 of 676 --

AN APPLE A DAY * 41
amounted to worship. Who would dare to contradict anyone who
began a conversation with, "Well, my doctor told me that .._."? Very
few.
Now the pendulum is swinging in a new and different direction.
There are still those sincere medical men and women who are genu-
inely devoted to their healing work. But as malpractice suits steadily
rise, and are duly reported in the media, the general public is gradu-
ally becoming aware that the warmly remembered family doctor of
Norman Rockwell's paintings has gone the way of the dinosaur. We're
living in an age of specialists.
Medical people who set broken bones, replace limbs amputated
In accidents, repair scarred and disfigured faces, treat severe burns,
remove bullets and dangerously diseased or ruptured organs and start
hearts beating again after they have stopped, deserve our respect and
support, even our affection.
Such professional and compassionate ones who perform miracles
of healing do still exist, here and there, like Dr. James Huperich and
Dr. Raymond Wong, of Hollywood Presbyterian Medical Center, a
healing haven with caring ones like Carmen Sosa, under the en-
lightened guidance of hospital personnel such as Sy Schneider. I
mention only those medical people I've personally experienced, al-
though there are, naturally, a number of others. My son Michael's life
was literally saved by these people and this particular medical center.
Nevertheless, it's growing undeniably more difficult every year to lo-
cate a sincerely dedicated physician.
We've been made only too knowledgeable of the many deaths
and deformities caused by both the medical and the pharmaceutical
professions to feel comfortable in continuing to genuflect to the high
priests of medicine with the same degree of awe they expected of us in
the past.
As a result, a growing number of people are turning to homeo-
pathy and holistic medicine, a revolution seeded by the popularity of

-- 105 of 676 --

42 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
books about the "sleeping prophet," Edgar Cayce, and further fruited
by the flower children and the back-to-Nature movement of the Six-
ties, which hasn't faded into oblivion, but is gathering more apostles
every year.
We don't want to lose our good doctors, and we don't want the
historic swinging pendulum to swing us all the way back to the elixirs
and leeches of the nineteenth century. We'd like a happy medium, if
possible — a change in the direction of medicine able to give us what
medicine has always promised and never delivered: permanent good
health, by giving priority to the practice of prevention over diagnosis
and treatment, as does homeopathy and medical astrology. (We
wouldn't even have the medical profession's current semi-approval of
acupuncture if former President Richard Nixon hadn't been ailing
when he visited China, and became convinced of its effectiveness.)
No, we don't want to swing back to the nineteenth century's
medical practices, but swinging back to even before then, to ancient
China, might not be so bad.
There were three types of doctors in ancient China. The first
kind merely cured your disease, and was the least of the three. The
second was an expert in diagnosing an illness, not only after it ap-
peared, but earlier, shortly before it appeared. He was higher on the
medical ladder. The most skilled, most venerable, and most respected
physician was the one who kept his patients so healthy that they never
manifested any form of sickness in the first place, a Taoist ideal. This
medical "caste system" was nothing if not logical.
And it went further. A doctor in ancient China (oh, turn back
the clock !) was paid only when his patients got well, when he had
healed them — and in some districts the doctor was under strict obli-
gation to make economic amends or restitution should a patient be-
come worse or continue to be ill under his care, because it was
considered that, if he had not kept his patients healthy, then their
diseases were fully his responsibility.

-- 106 of 676 --

AN APPLE A DAY * 43
Every time a patient died, a lantern of a certain shape was hung
outside the attending doctor's office, and a doctor with too many of
these lanterns swinging at the front door could be assured of a slow
business. Physicians who complain today about the high insurance
caused by malpractice suits should be glad they weren't practicing in
ancient China, when the doctors were blamed for everything (un-
justly) and the patients given no responsibility for their own mental
attitudes causing their illnesses to linger. Why must everything be
one extreme or the other ? A little of each would be nice, with physi-
cians and patients taking equal responsibility for good health.
If I may be permitted a respectful suggestion to the medical pro-
fession, physicians and surgeons would benefit by paying more atten-
tion to the founding father of their profession — Hippocrates, who
based his knowledge on astrology. Every doctor, upon being pre-
sented with his or her medical degree in whatever specialty, before
taking over the authoritative role of dictating to us about our own
bodies (surely a precious and privately owned possession) takes the
"Hippocratic Oath. n
Therefore, is it too much to ask that the wisdom
of this founding father's counsel be respected and followed in the
practice of medicine ?
Consider some of that wisdom from Hippocrates. He wrote in
his diaries that u
He who practices medicine without the benefit of the
movement of the stars and planets is a fool." No pussyfooting around
with innuendos or Greek double-talk there. (Much like the well-
known legal adage that "he who represents himself in a court of law
has a fool for a lawyer.") Hippocrates further stated firmly this warn-
ing: "Touch not with irorv that pan of the body ruled by the sign the
Moon is transiting.
"
His counsel may need some interpretation for the medical people
who have ignored the astrological wisdom of their founding father for
so long they haven't a clue as to how to translate his words.
It means this: One does not perform a surgical procedure with a

-- 107 of 676 --

44 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
knife (iron) upon a pan of the patient's body which is ruled by (associ-
ated with) the astrological sign through which the Moon is moving at
the time. The Moon remains in one sign approximately two and a half
days, and this information can be easily obtained from an Ephemeris,
calculated by astronomers — or a Farmer's Almanac.
According to Hippocrates, and proven repeatedly in surgery, dis-
obeying this law will inevitably result in one of three failures of any
surgery performed at the wrong time: (1) complications, including
infection — (2) unusually slow and painful healing and recuperation
— and (3) fatality. The last of the three possible results of disobedi-
ence of the law is behind the too frequent and well-known medical
explanation that: "The operation was a success, but the patient died."
In the case of (3), death can result from any number of causes, includ-
ing the anesthetic administered. The results of (1) and (2) are by far
more frequent, and result (3) is rare. Nevertheless, observing the
warning of Hippocrates is clearly the wisest course.
Some examples: When the Moon is in Taurus, ruling the neck
and throat, one should not perform a tonsillectomy. When the Moon
is passing through Scorpio, ruler of the reproductive organs, a prostate
operation or a hysterectomy (removal of the tubes, ovaries, or uterus)
should not be performed. When the Moon is in Capricorn or Aries,
the former ruling the teeth and bones, the latter ruling the head in
general, no dental surgery or other surgery related to the bones or any
pan of the head should be performed. And so on. Later in this chap-
ter is a list of the various parts of the body ruled by each of the twelve
signs.
Personally, I never accept anything counseled by anyone without
first investigating its validity, and that includes the astrological advice
of Hippocrates. But, unlike the medical profession's attitude toward
the stars and planets, neither do I disbelieve it until I've checked into it
to a satisfactory degree. 1 investigated the counsel of Hippocrates con-
cerning this particular law, and found it to be valid each time. I'll give
only a few examples here, among the many instances I've checked.

-- 108 of 676 --

AN APPLE A DAY • 45
Jeff Chandler, a film star of the Fifties, entered the hospital to
undergo spinal surgery for a slipped disc. It was a common and com-
paratively simple surgical procedure, requiring only a few days of hos-
pitalization. He died on the operating table from "unknown causes."
That day the Moon was transitting the sign of Leo, ruler of the heart,
the back, and the spinal column.
Bertha Todd, first wife of the producer of Around the World in 80
Days, Michael Todd, who was later married to Elizabeth Taylor, cut
her finger on a broken glass. The next day she decided to go to the
emergency room of a Los Angeles hospital and have the cut closed
with a few stitches by the intern on duty, a minor bit of surgical atten-
tion. On the way to the hospital, Bertha and her attorney stopped for
coffee at a Beverly Hills drugstore. When they arrived at the emer-
gency room, Bertha was afraid the stitching might be painful, so she
requested an anesthetic. She was given two, but they weren't effective.
The third one took Bertha out of the realm of all pain. She died within
minutes. That day the Moon was transitting the sign of Gemini, ruler
of the shoulders, arms, hands, and fingers. With Bertha Todd and Jeff
Chandler, "the operations were a success, but the patient died."
A close friend of mine in Pittsburgh sent both of her children to
the hospital at her doctor's suggestion that they have simultaneous
tonsillectomies. One was suffering from a severe tonsil inflammation,
the other less severe. It was during the time, not so long ago, when
physicians advised wholesale surgery of this kind (which they've only
recently counseled against). If you had four children, might as well
stuff them all into green nightshirts and yank out their tonsils at one
time. Those who didn't need it then "were sure to need it eventu-
ally." Only later did the medical people decide that tonsils have a job
to perform in the body and should never be removed except for excel-
lent cause. Back then, the wholesale removal was recommended. It
was more efficient and practical. And there was also the advantage of
a cut rate of the surgeon's fee for multiple removal, as opposed to the
expense of a single tonsillectomy.

-- 109 of 676 --

46 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
The day the two children entered the hospital the Moon was
transiting the sign of Taurus, which is, as I've already mentioned,
ruler of the neck and throat. One child developed a severe infection
as a complication of surgery, which was touch and go for a while, but
he eventually responded to treatment with antibiotics. The other
child, a girl, endured a long recuperation — five weeks in the hospital
— during which time it was discovered that a piece of tonsil remained
and had to be removed in a second surgical procedure later.
The medical community openly confesses that at least five per-
cent of all deaths in hospitals are "unexplainable." Could the astro-
logical counsel of Hippocrates explain them ? They will never know
until they make an attempt to find out. Doctors needn't suddenly leap
into practicing the wisdom of Hippocrates by becoming astrologers.
That's expecting too much. But the very least of the obligations im-
plied by their Hippocratic Oath would be a carefully controlled obser-
vation of past patient case histories and current surgical operations, to
check the results. All they need is an Ephemeris or an Almanac —
and a few brief words of instruction from any competent astrologer.
Since the Moon, as I've said, remains in any particular sign for
only about two and a half days, a necessary (many of them are not)
operation need not be postponed for a great length of time by those
who respect Hippocrates. If the medical profession won't protect its
patients, they can perhaps protect themselves by scheduling their own
operations, giving the doctor some plausible excuse, such as: "If I
don't take my vacation this week, I won't be able to take it at all this
year. It postpones the surgery for only three days, doctor" — or "It's
more convenient for me — and for my family — to have my surgery
next Friday instead of next Tuesday." All any patient needs to beat the
system is an imaginative excuse, an Ephemeris or Almanac — plus a
healthy respect for his or her own body, a realization that it doesn't
belong to the medical trust to do with as they please, but to one's own
self. It wouldn't be wise to request a rescheduling of surgery by say-
ing, "You see, doctor, my astrologer says ..." The medical community
isn't quite that enlightened yet, on the whole. Maybe soon.

-- 110 of 676 --

AN APPLE A DAY * 47
Assuming you get lucky and find a doctor who will be at least
partially sympathetic to your views about the no-no dates for surgery,
he or she may ask you why this should be. Here is the foundation
behind the counsel of Hippocrates concerning "Touch not with iron
that part of the body ruled by the astrological sign the Moon is
transitting."
Even the stuffiest scientists now recognize and realize that the
Moon controls the ocean's tides as well as the timing of the opening
and closing of oysters. Any police chief can tell you that the depart-
ment dreads the nights of the Full Moon, because it brings on a great
"tide" of criminal activity, filling up the police blotters with double or
triple the number of crimes compared to other times. The Moon also
controls the monthly menstrual cycles of women.
Now, since it's a recognized fact that the Moon has the power to
move around all the great bodies of water in the oceans on Earth, and
since it's an equally recognized fact that more than eighty- five percent
of the human body consists of water, the Moon controls your body
and emotions to a degree most people don't suspect.
Surgery interrupts the as yet undiscovered tidal flows in the body
by the unnatural process of opening up the body and allowing air to
enter. Consequently, those parts of the body which are ruled by
whatever astrological sign the Moon is transitting at the time are espe-
cially sensitive and vulnerable. That should explain the counsel of
Hippocrates sufficiently to even the most closed medical minds, let
alone to an open-minded physician or surgeon.
Medicine has always treated the disease the patient has. Medical
astrology and homeopathy treat the patient who has the disease —
and there's a vast and vital difference. Your individual birth chart
(nativity or horoscope) indicated at the moment of your first breath of
life on this Earth the weak links in your body's chain reactions. That's
why medical astrology is more concerned with the diagnosis and
prevention of disease than with treatment. If it's known at birth that a

-- 111 of 676 --

48 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
baby's nativity indicates a strong predisposition to diabetes, for exam-
ple, the parents can control the diet of this small human early enough
to prevent the adult the child will become from ever developing dia-
betes. "An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure" is a true
adage.
Remember that the stars incline, they do not compel. Translated,
that means that your nativity or horoscope shows which diseases and
accidents to which parts of your personal body you are inclined to
suffer. If you take the proper preventive measures, these astrological
birth warnings will have accomplished their purpose, and you need
not become ill in the manner indicated in the horoscope as the body's
inclination. But if you do not take such preventive measures (for the
reason that you're ignorant of your own nativity's warnings), then
your body will be inclined to respond to the electromagnetic "pulls,"
and what were originally only possibilities will then become realities.
There is nothing fatalistic about astrology. The behavior of hu-
mans is where the responsibility for predictive tragedy lies — their
refusal to heed the warnings of the birth chart or to take the astro-
logical advice that would prevent the occurrence of all negative events
foreshadowed in the horoscope, not just those concerning health.
Medical astrology provides the medical profession (if they would
only accept and recognize it) with the true original cause of the break-
down of certain organs in each individual's body. Every physical ill-
ness, without a single exception, is the result of the initial cause of
certain mental and emotional attitudes. As just two of these, for ex-
ample, the emotional seeding that causes arthritis is resentment, bit-
terness, and frustration held inside, controlled — and not allowed to
express itself outwardly. Be honest, say what you feel — or get a
punching bag.
Heart disease and heart attacks are caused by (a) the lonely long-
ing resulting from not being loved (b) the inability to give or return
love — or (c) the inability to love ones self. The emotion of love and
the human organ of the heart are inseparable.

-- 112 of 676 --

-
AN APPLE A DAY * 49
Anger is deadly and swift in its effect. When you become really
violently angry with someone — or about something — I mean a
raging fury, whether or not it's justified, and whether or not it's held in
or allowed to spill out — it nevertheless creates bile, and the bile
buildup triggered by the anger seldom takes more than a few months,
sometimes only weeks. The result ? An excruciatingly painful gall-
bladder attack and the manifestation of gallstones. It's a dreadful and
painful price to pay for anger. Forgiveness is as practical as it is spir-
itual, since it not only strengthens the soul, it keeps the body healthy.
If you've ever suffered a gallbladder attack, if you've ever had gall-
stones, ask yourself with whom or with what you were furiously angry
a few weeks or a few months prior to the attack. It shouldn't be hard
to remember. The memory of anger or rage strong enough to create
bile (whether suppressed or expressed) stays with you awhile. Think
hard about it. It will surprise you, and also teach you an important
lesson about uncontrollable rage. It also affects the spleen. Why do
you think "bile" and "spleen" are used to describe violent emotions ?
Your birth chart infallibly reveals not just your susceptibility to
particular diseases and accidents, not just the organs composing the
weak links in your body's chain reactions, but also the mental and
emotional attitudes responsible for causing specified parts of your
"body to attract accident or infection. Beyond this, the birth chart
contains the knowledge of the timing of illness and possible accident,
indicating when you'll be the most vulnerable to one or the other, so
that they can be prevented or circumvented through an advance
change in your individual mental and/or emotional behavior indicated
to be the initiatory cause.
If accident or disease has already occurred, the nativity will indi-
cate which mental or emotional attitudes must be changed to reverse
the progress of the illness or promote swifter healing of the body parts
which have undergone accident. Sometimes your own instincts can
cause such a reversal, producing what doctors call "spontaneous re-
mission," the medical term used when no apparent cause for recovery
can be found. Astrology accurately analyzes character, personality,

-- 113 of 676 --

50 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
physical strengths and weaknesses,- and much more — but is equally
helpful as a timing device.
******
Never. forget that what you eat and what you think is what you
are. The food taken into your body is what gradually . . . slowly but
surely . . . forms your thought patterns. And your thoughts, both
conscious and subconscious, are in absolute control of your body's
health or lack of it.
An apple a day, as the old adage goes, may well keep the doctor
away, because fruit is the food most beneficial to your body's well-
being. It's good to become a vegetarian, but the ultimate goal is to
become a fruitarian . . . and eventually a part-time breathtarian, gain-
ing all your body needs from the very air you breathe (assuming one
can find any smog-free air these days — except in places like Cripple
Creek, Colorado, ten thousand feet above sea level, with pure, clean
air). The person striving for perfect and permanent good health fi-
nally graduates into becoming a full-time fruitarian and pan-time
breathtarian, no longer needing to kill life in order to sustain life. The
so-called food chain (destroying life to maintain life) is not as holy and
Nature-endorsed a pattern as you've been programmed to believe —
nor as necessary as you've been taught.
Reaching that ultimate in well-being cannot be accomplished
overnight. It takes at least fifteen years — and a change of attitude or
thought patterns. Deciding to become an instant vegetarian, for ex-
ample, after eating meat for many years, can shock the body into se-
vere illness, as happens only too often, causing people to mistakenly
believe that vegetarianism is "bad for you."
Before beginning the course of becoming a vegetarian, it's first
necessary to desire to do so for the correct reasons. The first reason is
genuine compassion for our animal brothers. It will save a lot of time
if 1 quote here from an interview in The New York Times with an un-

-- 114 of 676 --

AN APPLE A DAY * 51
enlightened rancher, feeling perhaps the beginning sensations of com-
passion but not yet illuminated to the truth of the cruelty of butchery
and ranching.
In the interview, the rancher was discussing his cows with the
reporter. He talked about how small calves are raised in terms of
expenses, profit and loss; how much you need to get for their dead
bodies and the dead bodies of cows and steers (calves liver, ham-
burger, steak, and roast beef) in order to earn a living for yourself as a
rancher. Everything he said in the interview applies also to mother
and baby sheep and pigs (lamb chops, pork chops, ham, and bacon).
"You know," the rancher said to the reporter, "you can almost get
sentimental about these little fellers. Do you know," he continued,
"that the mother cows can tell their own calves in a herd of a thousand
or more ? And didja know that when we separate them calves into
the shipping corrals, the mothers stand there outside by the fence just
shrieking and bellowing in sounds you ain't never heard no cow
make. As if they know what's happening. Sometimes they'll just
stand there for a week or more after the calves are gone, without eatin'
nothin' at all. Some of them, their throats get raw from all that bel-
lowing, and they can't swallow. Time comes you have to drive those
mother cows away from there or they'll starve themselves to death."
(More loss, no profit — can't allow that)
You've been taught that your body must have protein (meat) to
be healthy. You've been taught a myth. In plain language, a lie — on
a par wjth the nineteenth-century leeches.
No matter what you've been raised to believe, chopping off the
head of a turkey or a chicken also brings pain and suffering.
Fish die more slowly, after their tender mouths are torn by the
sharp point of the tackle, or, if caught in a net, thrashing around in
agony, gasping for "air" — water to them. Fish are an important part
of Nature's ecology; they perform vital functions swimming in rivers,
streams, lakes, and oceans during their brief lifespan. And by the

-- 115 of 676 --

52 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
way, Jesus was not a fisherman. Instead, he magnetized certain of his
apostles away from killing sea life by promising to make them "fishers
of men." There's no record of his eating flesh of any kind himself.
As for the fish, not all of them are carnivorous cannibals, eating
other fish. Many are vegetarians, existing on algae, seaweed, and
other kinds of plant growth in the ocean. Whales eat tons of
plankton, which also provides more than seventy percent of the oxy-
gen humans breathe, and which is rapidly disappearing from our
man-poisoned waters.
It's worth noting that the percentage of carnivorous opposed to
vegetarian fish closely matches the current percentage of carnivorous
opposed to vegetarian humans. There are other meaningful reflec-
tions between animal and human habits, and the former imitate the
latter, not the other way around. I don't have the time, space, or
inclination .to fully debate the evolutionists here, but that's the way
it is.
Gorillas, for instance, are vegetarians and very gentle creatures, as
primate expert Diane Fossey discovered by observing them closely for
many years. So are chimps, yet, when one chimpanzee, in a perverse
mood spontaneously and unnaturally happens to kill a flesh animal,
and toys around with eating it (though his surprised stomach may
make him quickly ill), he is immediately glorified by the other chimps
(even though they remain basically vegetarians), feared, respected,
and made the dominant male of the group — until another male
chimp takes a whim to do the same. Then the new killer becomes the
dominant male. A clear mirror reflection of human behavior.
There are many examples in the fish and animal world proving
that the carnivorous aspect of the "food chain," so holy to biologists, is
not a necessity jor healthy survival Jungle animals who eat the flesh of
other animals ? Regardless of what you learned in school about Dar-
win's theory, men taught animals to be carnivorous. There was no
blood shed in Eden, when this Earth was an "Eden Heaven," many

-- 116 of 676 --

AN APPLE A DAY • 53
millions of years before the Atlantean, Lemurian, and paleolithic peri-
ods, about which more in Chapter 9. If cows and calves, sheep and
lambs, mama and papa and baby monkeys and gorillas, giraffes and
hippos can survive in good health as vegetarians, there's no reason
why lions, tigers, leopards, and others can't do the same, given enough
time to restore their digestive organs back to their original state.
Have you ever wondered why the Catholic Church counsels its
followers to celebrate Lent by forgoing red meat, as a holy thing to
do ? Ask a Jesuit priest the reason behind this edict of Rome, and you
will, at the very least, hear some absolutely fascinating double-talk.
Since I've given the Catholic Church a few slaps of criticism in
this book, it deserves a pat on its ancient back when it's right. The
1987 stand taken by the Roman Church against artificial insemina-
tion, surrogate mothers, and test-tube babies demonstrates that re-
garding these moral questions, the Church is vibrating in harmony
with Universal Law. Creating new life without the positive-negative,
electromagnetic energy force exchanged in a male-female union con-
stitutes definite disobedience to Nature's Law, which happens to also
be the Law of our Creators, and could have unsuspected and serious
repercussions. This is not the place to go into great detail about why
— such a discussion belongs in future books — but meanwhile, one
might ordain swift enlightenment so that these spiritually dangerous
practices may halt.
The Roman Church is likewise right in its stand against the ge-
netic engineering our "mad scientists" are now performing on flora
and fauna, certain to disrupt Nature's balances, as it causes great suf-
fering to helpless animals.
Sometimes the healing treatments of particular medical people
cause one to wonder if we aren't living in what will someday be called
the "dark ages of medicine." A friend of mine from Colorado fell ill
several years ago with a persistent virus she had picked up in the
• Orient. She grew progressively weaker, and pain consumed her entire

-- 117 of 676 --

54 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
body. For a time she considered the homeopathic treatment recom-
mended by a holistic medical person I told her about, but she finally
decided instead to seek help in a series of expensive clinics. The phy-
sician at the last clinic placed her on a thirty-day diet consisting of
nothing but raw meat. I felt a combination of deep sorrow and intense
outrage when she died a few months later. It was some time before I
could pass a hospital without feeling a flame of anger within myself.
Fresh air, fruit and vegetables, and lots of sleep are the require-
ments for the body to heal itself of illness. So what happens when
you're in the hospital for the purpose of becoming well ? The win-
dows are locked tighdy with a key, permitting not a single breath of
fresh air, as the patient lies there, breathing in the very unhealthy
carbon monoxide from his or her own breath.
Your hospital diet, with very few exceptions, consists of red meat,
undercooked and bloody, and often cold. White sugar is used liber-
ally, even in the tuna fish salad in many hospitals. It makes one won-
der if the dieticians graduated from a speed course at a fast-food
chain. Sleep ? It's difficult, if not impossible, to sleep so your body
can begin its healing process when you're periodically awakened by
temperature-taking (the schedule designed to fit the hospital's conve-
nience, not yours) and the loudspeakers in each room for calling
nurses and doctors jerk you awake, causing the astral to plunge back
into the body with a spasm.
******
When your feeling for our fish, fowl, and animal brothers and
sisters dawns within your heart and soul, and your mind begins to
realize the intense harm done to your body through eating trau-
matized flesh of all kinds, you can't suddenly become a vegetarian. As
I mentioned before, this can be dangerous to your already poisoned
system. As I also mentioned earlier, it takes fifteen years to complete
the cycle. Here is the path recommended by one of my personal

-- 118 of 676 --

AN APPLE A DAY * 55
Avatars, a Hatha Yoga. (The number of years is important, related to
numerology and related spiritual matters as well as to the physical
body's needs.)
The ideal way to cleanse your body temple of the impurity of
'years of eating animal flesh is to begin by eliminating all "fed meat" —
beef, steak, hamburger, pork y ham, and bacon — for a five-year period.
During this five-year period, eat both fish and fowl — vegetables and
fruit — breads, cereals, and all dairy foods (eggs, milk, cheese). For
one day each week of these first five years, take nothing into your
body but fruits and/or natural fruit juices. This allows your body to
become gradually accustomed to fruit, avoiding the negative result of
your surprised bowels responding with diarrhea.
During the second five-year period, eliminate fish and fowl and
eggs (unfertilized chicken embryos, of course) — but continue to eat
all kinds of vegetables and fruit — breads, cereals, and the dairy foods
of milk and cheese. Again, choose one day a week to take into your
body only fruits and/or fruit juices during this second five-year
period.
During the third five-year period, you will be ready to eliminate
all vegetables which grow under the ground — along with red meat,
fish, fowl, and eggs. Your diet now consists of only vegetables which
grow above the ground, fruit, breads, cereals, milk, and cheese. As
with each of the three five-year periods, again choose one day a' week
to take into your body only fruits- and fruit juices.
You have now spent fifteen years preparing your physical system
to sustain itself on fruit alone, now eliminating all vegetables, all dairy
foods — and eating breads and cereals only when you feel the need for
them. You have become a fruitarian. Remember that a fruitarian diet
must include plenty of tomatoes and nuts of all kinds, along with
other fruits. Some people have claimed that fruit is the food placed on
this Earth from the beginning, and the only "food" the body needs.
But, you see, fruit is not simply a food. It's not part of the "food chain"

-- 119 of 676 --

56 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
in its usual definition. Essentially, fruit is a cleanser — a purifier of the
body. Your body can take care of its own needs involving blood,
tissue, and so forth. But it needs the cleansing that fruit supplies. I've
known a number of people (mostly Gurus) who are pure fruitarians,
and they are all amazingly strong and healthy individuals. (I'm hot
quite there myself; I'm only in the second five-year period.)
When you've become a fruitarian slowly and safely, the stools
and urine have no odor, the skin is clear, the eyes sparkle, and the
mind is more alert. The important thing to remember is that vege-
tarianism and becoming a fruitarian can be harmful to your health
unless achieved gradually and gently over a safe fifteen-year period of
purification. Then you can become a breathtarian, gaining all that
your body needs from the proper breathing of fresh air and Prana (the
Life Force energy) — and occasionally or periodically eating fruit to
cleanse your body of impurities, such as one week each month.
You may believe it's impossible to survive on the air you breathe,
but it can be done, under the proper conditions. A woman named
Therese Neuman, of Bavaria, who was carefully observed by several
respected physicians, lived for 20 years without food — drinking only
pure water and eating one thin communion wafer per day. Her death
was accident-related, not from disease. Francesco Bernadone, of As-
sisi, is known to have frequently fasted (been a breathtarian) for 30 to
90 days at a time with no negative health results. It was after these
long fasting or breathtarian periods that he was seen levitating by his
monks. Unfortunately, pure water and pure air are both in short sup-
ply on our planet these days, so becoming a complete breathtarian
may have to wait until a miracle of reversal in the Aquarian Age.
Meanwhile, becoming a fruitarian is a giant step forward for body,
mind, and soul.
All of these paths to permanent good health, please remember,
must be approached with caution and common sense. There are
some health addicts who become so obsessed with the concept of

-- 120 of 676 --

AN APPLE A DAY * 57
vegetarianism, they want to turn their newborn infants into vege-
tarians, beginning with their first food. This is extremely dangerous.
The infant has inherited "the sins of the flesh" from the parents and
ancestors, and can no more endure a sudden vegetarian diet than an
adult. The same three stage course is safe, except that, according to
my Hatha Yoga Avatar, with infants and children, it should take the
form of: two six-year periods and a final seven-year period, with the
same food regimen as given in the three five-year periods for adults,
totaling nineteen years of preparation, from whatever age the child is
when the program is initiated. Should the purification program begin
at birth, then the infant should be fed all dairy products, all vegetables,
fruit, bread and cereals, plus fish and fowl — eliminating only red
meat during the first six years . . . and so on . . . with the second six-
year period following the food intake of the second jive-year adult
period, and the final seven-year period matching the final adult five-
year period.
Meat-eating races have always been warlike and aggressive, all
through history, whereas non-meat-eating races have been passive and
peaceful. As for hunting, I rarely enter into discussions with hunters,
being an Aries. Too many Mars fireworks might explode. The excuse
many hunters give to justify murdering wildlife is that they are
"clearing out the excess population — otherwise there wouldn't be
enough food, and the animals die anyway" makes me feel that their
thought patterns are only a fraction removed from finding murder a
likewise "practical and humane" way to "clear out" overpopulated
areas of China and India and America's slums. In a worldwide sense,
mankind (and here the chauvinistic term is appropriate) has always
found war to be an "ideal" solution to "clear out" population. Nature
herself is fully capable of solving her Own problems, without man's
"helpfulness," comprised of murder and killing. My Cherokee Chief
has a bumper sticker that reads: Join the Army. See the world.
Visit exotic pieces and meet interesting people — then kill
THEM.

-- 121 of 676 --

58 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
I personally know several hunters who are otherwise kind, gen-
tle, generous, and truly good people, possessing only this one blind-
ness. Nevertheless, as much as I deeply and dearly love Colorado and
my hometown of Cripple Creek, I manage to go to California or New
York during hunting season there.
My favorite Cherokee Indian legend, which is really a true story
passed down through many generations, is about the vegetarian In-
dian called Snow Foot, who would kill no living creature. When the
deer in the forest near his tent grew older and sensed their death was
near, they came to Snow Foot, knelt down before him, gazed at him
for a long, still moment with their gentle brown eyes . . . then died. It
was their way of offering him their dead bodies for use in making
clothes to protect him against the cold, and moccasins for his feet . . .
in gratitude for not participating in hunting them down and allowing
them and their families to live out their life spans in the wilderness in
peace.
******
The Aquarian Age will bring new miracles to the field of medi-
cine, Nature's unsuspected secrets of well-being and healing. There
are hundreds of these, but 111 mention only one of them here: the
magic of carrots. In 1985 John and Margaret Blamford, she approach-
ing the chronological illusionary "number age" of 40, and he ap-
proaching the chronological illusionary "number age" of 50, had
despaired of ever being able to have the baby they longed for. They
had been told by the medical people that Margaret was "too old" to
bear a child without risk, and John's sperm count was too low to ever
allow him to become a father.
Margaret, with her woman's intuition and inexplicable feminine
instinct, thought about rabbits and their amazing reproductive pat-
terns. She knew that all domesticated rabbits eat carrots, so she put

-- 122 of 676 --

AN APPLE A DAY * 59
her husband on a carrot diet for several months. Every single day the
hungry man gobbled carrots in every form — grated in salads, diced
and cooked in casseroles, and raw in between meals. A strict carrots-
only diet.
Magic ! The rabbit recipe worked like a charm, as carrot-
crunching John and his esoterically inclined wife, Margaret, of Trent,
England, became the proud parents of a beautiful, healthy baby girl.
Margaret wasn't "pixilated" — she had simply tuned in to her Higher
Self, and one of Mother Nature's secrets dawned in her conscious
mind. Dr. Andrew Stanway, in his book, Why Us? (a commonsense
guide for childless couples) explains that carrots contain an abundant
supply of zinc, which is known to pep up and increase the sperm
count in males. Nondomesticated rabbits and hares, who run freely
in the woods, eat few, if any, carrots — and they don't reproduce
anywhere near as frequently as the domesticated carrot-nibblers.
The Blamfords, after being told there was no hope for them, fi-
nally realized their dream by imitating the bunnies, but astrobiology
could create the same miracle for couples who are childless for reasons
different from low sperm count, though not excluding the latter. As-
trobiology (see Afterword) is equally as reliable and helpful for cou-
ples who want to conceive as it is for those who use it for dependable,
safe'birth control. There are "many roads to Rome," as the old adage
goes.
******
Hair may not be closely related to health, but I can't resist giving
you this helpful astrological hint. If your hair is cut short (male or
female) and you'd like to keep it that way without so many trips to the
barber or beautician, have it cut each time at the apex or the day of the
Full Moon any month. It will grow noticeably.more slowly, and there-
fore need less frequent cutting. Cappies, Bulls, and Virgos, think of
the money you'll save !

-- 123 of 676 --

60 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
If you're a woman who has cut her hair and regretted it, and are
impatient to have long tresses again, trim the ends of your hair your-
self ever so slightly, just a smidgin, at the apex of the New Moon, and it
will grow visibly much faster. You're going to need that Ephemeris or
Farmer's Almanac for lots of reasons ! If one of your local bookstores
can't help you, you can order either or both from the Bodhi Tree
Bookstore in Los Angeles, California — or the Samuel Weiser book-
store in New York City. All Farmer's Almanacs are the same, but
regarding the Ephemeris, you need only the ten-year Ephemeris, not
the thousand-year edition. The former is less expensive.
******
Now, here are some very helpful astrological and numerological
guides for your general health. First, the astrological guide.
When you read the following, remember that your individually
calculated and rectified (the exact hour and minute of your first
breath) nativity contains your complete personal health picture, all the
strong and weak links in your body's chain reactions. These Sun Sign
indications are only general. Nevertheless, in approximately eighty
percent or more cases, the problem areas will center in the parts of the
body ruled by your Sun Sign. Not always, but usually. Just don't
believe it's the whole story. For a complete health analysis you'll need
a carefully rectified horoscope and a competent person trained in
medical astrology to interpret it for you.
Wouldn't it be a blessing if that competent person could be a
professional physician who has also studied astrology ? Wouldn't that
be simply ideal ? There's small chance of your locating such a medi-
cine man because only a few exist, as rare as the dodo bird, but we can
dream, can't we ? And dreams, don't ever forget, are the first step in
manifesting wishes into reality.
******

-- 124 of 676 --

AN APPLE A DAY * 61
SUN SIGN RULERSHIPS OF THE BODY
V ARIES: head, face (except nose), the cerebral
hemispheres of the brain
V TA[7Rl/5: neck, throat, larynx, tonsils, carotid
arteries, and jugular vein
& GEMINI: shoulders, arms, fingers, lungs, thymus,
and upper ribs
® CANCER: stomach, diaphragm, breasts and
thoracic duct, lymph system
SI LEO: heart, aorta, the back, and the spinal
cord
ftp VIRGO: large and small intestines and the
pancreas
^ LIBRA: kidneys, equilibrium and balance —
sometimes skin by association
fT], SCORPIO: nose, genitals, descending colon,
rectum, the blood, urethra, sometimes
the back, by association
v* SAGITTARIUS: hips, thighs, liver, veins, femur bone,
and sacral region
5 CAPRICORN: teeth, bones — the kneecaps and the
skin
™ AQUARIUS: lower legs and ankles, varicose veins,
and circulatory system
00 PISCES: the feet and toes, sometimes the lungs
and intestines by association — and, in
reality, the entire body system related to
"leaks" and the draining of fluids

-- 125 of 676 --

62 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
What medicine calls "the sympathetic parts of the body" came
directly from the astrological computations of Hippocrates. The sym-
pathetic parts of the body mean that when particular symptoms occur
in one part of the body, your doctor will look to one of the other three
"sympathetic" parts to see where the trouble may have initiated. You
can comprehend this easily by studying the drawings of the three
astrological "crosses" on page 63.
Notice that two of each of the four signs in each Cross are opposite
each other (180 degrees apart in the horoscope circle) — and all four
signs in each Cross are square to each other (90 degrees apart in the
horoscopic circle). See the astrological wheel drawn on Page 10. It
defines the sympathetic parts of the body.
Now go back to page 61 and study the body rulerships of each
Sun Sign. Here are only a few examples of how it works. First, the
Cardinal Cross. Look at it again. Then study the parts of the body
ruled by these particular four Cardinal Signs.
Aries rules the head, Libra rules the kidneys and bladder. The
symptoms of Libra kidney or bladder problems often begin with se-
vere headaches (Aries). Cancer rules the stomach. Capricorn rules the
skin (among other things). When you take into your stomach food
which disagrees with you or to which you're allergic (Cancer) — your
skin breaks out in a rash (Capricorn). A toothache (Capricorn rules the
teeth) gives you pain in the head and face (Aries). Aries and Capri-
corn are square to each other, just as Aries and Libra are opposed to
(opposite) each other.
Now the Fixed Cross. Look at it again. Then study the parts of
the body ruled by these particular four Fixed Signs.
Aquarius rules the lower legs. Leo rules the heart (among other
things). One of the first symptoms of heart trouble is pain in the lower
legs. Leo and Aquarius are opposed to (opposite) each other. Taurus

-- 126 of 676 --

AN APPLE A DAY * 63
The Cardinal Cross
Capricorn
The Fixed Cross
Aquarius
T
Aries Libra Taurus
Cancer
The Mutable Cross
Pisces
Scorpio
n
Gemini
Leo
?
Sagittarius
Virgo
IT*
rules the throat > neck, and vocal cords. Scorpio rules the sex organs
(among other things). When a boy goes through puberty (a Scorpio
sexual change), his vocal cords (Taurus) also undergo a change, and
his voice deepens. Taurus and Scorpio are opposed to (opposite) each
other. Leo also rules the spine. One of the first signs of spinal
meningitis is a sore throat (Taurus). Taurus and Leo are square to each
other. Likewise, Leo and Scorpio are square to each other in the Fixed
Cross. Scorpio rules the colon (among other things). Leo rules the
back and spine. The symptoms of severe colitis or infection of the
colon are often felt first as pains in the lower back area.
Now the Mutable Cross. Look at it again. Then study the parts
of the body ruled by these particular four Mutable Signs.

-- 127 of 676 --

64 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
Pisces rules the feet. Gemini rules the Lungs (among other
things). If you've walked in the rain for hours and soaked your feet
(Pisces), you may come down with flu, which could lead to pneu-
monia (Gemini-lungs). It depends, as I mentioned earlier, on the
planetary positions and aspects in the birth chart. Sagittarius rules the
liver, and is square to Virgo, ruling the intestines. Liver ailments are
first manifested through intestinal problems. And so on. These are
only a few examples of the sympathetic parts of the body.
Now the physical effect of the Elements to which each Sun Sign
belongs: Fire, Earth, Air, and Water. (Find your Sun Sign, if you don't
know it already, in Chapter 1, page 11.)
Fire Signs: Aries, the Ram — Leo, the Lion — Sagittarius, the
Archer
Fire Signs are more likely to suffer from fulminating illnesses,
high fevers, and maladies which strike suddenly in the parts of the
body ruled by the particular Sun Sign of the Fire Element. Re-
cuperative ability is usually strong and swift. Rarely do Rams, Lions,
Lionesses, and Archers experience chronic or long-lasting illnesses.
Earth Signs: Taurus, the Bull — Virgo, the Virgin — Capricorn, the
Goat
Earth Signs are more likely to suffer from deep-rooted physical
ailments, taking years to develop, and often becoming chronic for
periods of time. Also emotional depression. The recuperative abil-
ities of Bulls, Virgins, and Goats are powerful, but often slow.
Air Signs: Gemini, the Twins — Libra, the Scales — Aquarius, the
Water Bearer
Air Signs tend to suffer from mental stress and psychological dis-
turbances, nervous breakdowns, breathing difficulties, and circulatory
problems. Recuperative powers are unpredictable.

-- 128 of 676 --

AN APPLE A DAY • 65
Water Signs: Cancer, the Crab — Scorpio, the Eagle — Pisces, the
Fish
Water Signs are prone to peculiar illnesses, difficult to diagnose
and lingering in nature. Also severe melancholia. The recuperative
abilities are completely self-controlled, whether or not this is realized
on a conscious level.
Remember that your individually calculated and rectified (the
exact moment of the first breath) nativity contains your complete
health analysis, all of the strong and weak links in your body's chain
reactions. The foregoing Sun Sign and Element indications are only
general, although more than seventy-five percent of the time, the most
recurrent problem areas and types of illnesses will occur in the parts of
the body ruled by the Sun Sign, and be of the nature of the Element of
the Sun Sign. Just be sure you realize that it's not the whole story.
Meanwhile, combining these Sun Sign and Element indications with
the numerological health analysis of the single number of your day of
birth in the following interpretations will be most helpful, a sur-
prisingly reliable guide, as you will see.
******
The true systerti of numerology is defined and explained in Chap-
ter 5, and this is only.a small preview of the magic of numbers, as they
relate to your health only, involving your day of birth, rather than
Chapter 5's full explanation of the numbers of your date of birth and
the numerological revelations of your name.
You are a Number 1 if you were born on the 1st, 10th, 19th, or
28th day of any month.
You are a Number 2 if you were born on the 2nd, 11th, 20th,
or 29th day of any month.

-- 129 of 676 --

66 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
You are a Number 3 if you were born on the 3rd, 12th, 21st, or
30th day of any month.
You are a Number 4 if you were born on the 4th, 13th, 22nd,
or 3 1st day of any month.
You are a Number 5 if you were born on the 5th, 14th, or 23rd
day of any month.
You are a Number 6 if you were born on the 6th, 15th, or 24th
day of any month.
You are a Number 7 if you were born on the 7th, 16th, or 25th
day of any month.
You are a Number 8 if you were born on the 8th, "17th, or 26th
day of any month.
You are a Number 9 if you were born on the 9th, 18th, or 27th
day of any month.
The Number 1
The colors that harmonize with the Number 1 vibration are: all
shades of sunny or golden yellow, bright orange, and royal purple.
Number 1 people will notice a subtle beneficial change in their
general well-being and can increase their positive essence by wearing
topaz or amber next to the skin.
The 1 vibration brings a tendency to suffer from heart problems
in some form, such as palpitation and irregular circulation — lower
back pain, accidents to the spine, sometimes high blood pressure and
astigmatism, and should have their eyes tested frequently. Their
physical weaknesses will be intensified by negative emotions — and
diluted or even negated by positive emotions, forgiveness, and a
cheerful attitude. Sometimes sexual disorders may surface, such as
frigidity in women and impotency in men. But these problems are
temporary and can be reversed by the right mental control. 1 people
can bring on illness through their exaggerated seose of pride and ego.

-- 130 of 676 --

AN APPLE A DAY * 67
When they learn to become more tolerant, more flexible, they'll see a
marked improvement in the general health.
October, November, and December of every year are the months
when most ill-health symptoms — mental or physical — sickness or
accident — will strike the Number 1 person, brought on by negative
emotional attitudes, depression, stress, or overwork. 1 people should
practice remaining serene each year as these months approach. After
a while, practice makes perfect, and they'll be able to greatly dilute or
even negate the tendency toward illness or accident at these times.
The practice of serenity should begin at least a^month before each
month just given.
The foods which should be eaten frequently by a 1 person are:
raisins, barley bread, barley, oranges, lemons, and dates. The prin-
cipal herbs which will go a very long way toward the eventual achieve-
ment of permanent good health for a Number 1 person are: saffron,
camomile, eye bright, St. John's wort, cloves, nutmeg, sorrel, borage,
gentian root, lavender, bay leaves, thyme, musk vervain, and myrrh.
When these herbs are taken in a liquid form by a person born on
the 1st, 10th, 19th, or 28th day of any month, any year, they act as
Nature's tranquilizer and tonic. A remarkable and swift change will
be noticed when three or four teaspoons are taken to relieve anxiety,
tension, depression, anger, or other mental or 'emotional distur-
bances. The liquid should be taken (one tablespoon) twice a week on
a regular basis, and more when necessary under stress.
. How can you obtain your herbs in liquid form ? My friends at
the Herb Products Company in California, who have been in the ho-
meopathic business for more than a quarter of a century, will make up
the herbal liquid for you. They have a list of all the herbs for each
number, from 1 through 9, so all you need do is call them and give
them your number (in this case Number 1) and they'll blend the
magic for you. They'll tell you over the phone the cost (minimal) of
the size bottle you want. Then you send a check in that amount, and
they'll mail your herbal tonic.

-- 131 of 676 --

68 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
The telephone numbers are (213) 877-3104 or (818) 984-3141.
The address is:
John W. DuVallJr.
Herb Products Co.
11012 Magnolia Blvd.
North Hollywood, California 91601
The Number 2
The colors that harmonize with the Number 2 vibration are: |
Light green, pale yellow, silver, violet, and lavender.
Number 2 people will observe a subtle beneficial change in their
general well-being and can increase their positive essence by wearing,
emeralds, pearls, or moonstones next to the skin.
The 2 vibration brings a tendency to suffer from stomach prob-
lems and digestive disorders. They're susceptible to ptomaine poison-
1
ing, and should be careful of the foods they eat and the water they
drink in a foreign country. Gastric troubles and internal growths'!
(usually benign) are possibilities. The breasts and chest area are vul--
nerable to problems. Most complaints of 2 people are lingering and jj
chronic, caused by their refusal to let go of anxiety, and when they j
learn to do this, recuperation will be much swifter.
January, February, and July of every year are the months when;
most ill health symptoms — mental or physical — sickness or acci-
dent — will strike the Number 2 person, brought on by negative*
emotional attitudes, depression, tension, anxiety, or overwork. 2 peo-
ple should practice remaining serene each year as these months ar> |
proach. After a while, practice makes perfect, and they'll be able to;]
greatly dilute or even negate the tendency toward illness or accident at
these times. The practice of serenity should begin at least a month li
before each month just given.
The foods which should be eaten frequently by a 2 person are: j

-- 132 of 676 --

AN APPLE A DAY * 69
lettuce, cabbages, turnips, cucumber, melon. The principal herbs
which will go a very long way toward the eventual achievement of
permanent good health for a Number 2 person are: chicory, endive,
rapeseed, colewort, moonwort, linseed, water plantain, and ash of
willow.
When these herbs are taken in liquid form by a person born on
the 2nd, 1 1th, 20th, or 29th day of any month, any year, they act as
Nature's tranquilizer and tonic. A remarkable and swift change is
noticed when three or four teaspoons are taken to relieve anxiety,
stress, depression, anger, or other mental or emotional disturbances.
The liquid should be taken (one tablespoon) twice a week on a regular
basis — and more if necessary under tension. The way to obtain the
herbal liquid for Number 2 people is explained at the end of the Num-.
ber 1 analysis.
The Number 3
The colors that harmonize with the Number 3 vibration are: all
autumn colors, such as yellow and burnt orange, rust . . . also, tur-
quoise and sky blue. 3 people often share a love of purple with the 1
people.
Number 3 people will notice a subtle beneficial change in their
general well-being and can increase their positive essence by wearing
turquoise next to the skin.
The 3 vibration brings a tendency to suffer from overstrain of the
nervous system, usually brought on by overwork and lack of sleep.
They're inclined to have severe attacks of sciatica and neuritis, various,
forms of skin troubles — and are vulnerable to accidents to the hips.
There may be complaints concerned with the liver and aches in the
thigh or hip area.
December, February, June, and September of every year are the
months when most ill health symptoms — mental or physical — sick-
ness or accident — will strike the Number 3 person, brought on by
negative emotional attitudes, depression, stress, or overwork. 3 peo-

-- 133 of 676 --

70 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
pie should practice remaining serene each year as these months ap-
1
proach. After a while, practice makes perfect, and they'll be able to
greatly dilute or even negate the tendency toward illness or accident at
these times. The practice of serenity should begin at least a month i
before each month just given.
The foods which should be eaten frequently by a 3 person are:
beets, bilberries, asparagus, cherries, barberries, strawberries, apples,
mulberries, peaches, olives, rhubarb, gooseberries, pomegranates, en-
dive, pineapples, grapes, almonds, figs, hazelnuts, and wheat and all-
wheat products. The herbs which will go a very long way toward the
achievement of permanent good health for a Number 3 person are: l
borage, dandelion, ewerwort, lungwort, sage, mint, saffron, nutmeg, j
cloves, sweet Marjoram, and St. John's wort.
When these herbs are taken in liquid form by a person born on 1
the 3rd, 12th, 21st, or 30th of any month, any year, they act as Na-
1
ture's tranquilizer and tonic. A remarkable and swift change is no^ |
ticed when three or four teaspoons are taken to relieve anxiety,
tension, depression, anger, or other mental or emotional disturbances. J
The liquid should be taken (one tablespoon) twice a week on a regular
basis and more if necessary under stress. The way to obtain the herbal 1
liquid for Number 3 people is given at the end of the Number 1 J
analysis.
The Number 4
The colors that harmonize with the 4 vibration are: electric blue
and cobalt blue — silver-gray and ocean green.
Number 4 people will notice a subtle beneficial change in their
general well-being and can increase their positive essence by wearing,
sapphire, quartz, or a stone containing a blend of azurite and mal-
achite next to the skin.
The 4 vibration brings a tendency to suffer from mysterious ail-
ments difficult to diagnose, mental disorders, melancholy, anemia;

-- 134 of 676 --

AN APPLE A DAY * 71
poor circulation, pains in the head and back, accidents from electricity
or lightning, and injuries to the lower legs. 4 people can derive great
benefits from electrical treatment of all kinds, hypnosis, and mental
suggestion. They are strongly warned to avoid taking or being given
drugs — and although everyone would be healthier being a vege-
tarian, Number 4 people in particular will become chronically ill un-
less they avoid highly seasoned foods and all forms of red meat. Their
physical weaknesses will be intensified by negative emotions — and
diluted or even negated by positive emotions, a calm spirit, and pa-
tience. There is a possibility of problems with the reproductive
organs, occasional impotence in men and frigidity in women, but the
latter can be banished with mental concentration and the realization
that the complaint is psychological, not physical.
January, February, July, August, and September of every year are
the months when most ill health symptoms — mental or physical —
sickness or accident — will strike the Number 4 person, brought on
by negative emotional attitudes, depression, stress, or overwork 4
People should practice remaining serene each year as these months
approach. After a while, practice makes perfect, and they'll be able to
greatly dilute or even negate the tendency toward illness or accident at
these times. The practice of serenity should begin at least a month
before each month just given.
The foods which should be eaten frequently by a 4 person is
spinach. The principal herbs which will go a very long way toward
the eventual achievement of permanent good health for a 4 person are:
sage, pilewort, wintergreen, medlars, Iceland-moss, and Solomon's
Seal.
When these herbs are taken in liquid form by a person born on
the 4th, 13th, 22nd, or 31st day of any month, any year, they act as
Nature's tranquilizer and tonic. A remarkable and swift change is
noticed when three or four teaspoons are taken to relieve anxiety,
stress, depression, anger, or other mental or emotional disturbances.

-- 135 of 676 --

72 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
The liquid should be .taken (one tablespoon) twice a week on a regular
basis — and more if necessary under tension. The way to obtain the
herbal liquid is explained at the end of the Number 1 analysis.
The Number 5
Just as 5 people can usually harmonize with people born under
all kinds of numbers, they can normally wear all colors, but those
which harmonize best with the 5 aura are: pearl gray, light green, and
silver. They should not wear dark colors, even when they are given as
the colors of their Sun Signs.
Number 5 people will notice a subtle beneficial change in their
general well-being and can increase their positive essence by wearing
aquamarine gems, platinum, or silver next to the skin.
The 5 vibration brings a tendency to attempt too much mentally;
to deplete the energies, which can lead to nervous breakdowns. 5
people live too much on their nerves, and may suffer from insomnia,
twitching in the face or eyes, and "phantom pains" in the shoulders,
arms, and hands. Even under minor mental tension they can become
irritable and nervous. They're advised to practice grace under pres-
sure, to try to remain calm and patient when events around them are
stressful. Sleep and rest and quiet surroundings will have a noticeable
healing effect.
June, September, and December of every year are the months
when most ill health symptoms — mental or physical — sickness or
accident — will strike the number 5 person, brought on by negative
emotional attitudes, depression, stress, or overwork. 5 people should :
practice remaining serene each year as these months approach. After
a while, in this way they'll be able to greatly dilute or even negate the i
tendency toward illness or accident at these times. The practice of I
serenity should begin at least a month before each month given.
The foods which should be eaten frequently by a 5 person are:
carrots, parsnips, sea kale, oatmeal, oatmeal breads, parsley, and nuts j
of all kinds, especially hazelnuts and walnuts The principal herbs I

-- 136 of 676 --

AN APPLE A DAY * 73
which will go a very long way toward the eventual achievement of
permanent good health for a Number 5 person are: sweet marjoram,
champignons, caraway seeds, and thyme.
When these herbs are taken in liquid form by a person born on
the 5th, 14th, or 23rd day of any month, any year, they act as Nature's
tranquilizer and tonic. A remarkable- and swift change is noticed
when three or four teaspoons are taken to relieve anxiety., stress, de-
pression, anger, or other mental or emotional disturbances. The liq-
uid should be taken (one tablespoon) twice a week on a regular basis
— and more if necessary under tension. The way to obtain the herbal
liquid for Number 5 people is explained at the end of the Number 1
analysis.
The Number 6
The colors that harmonize with the Number 6 vibration are: the
pastel shades of every color, especially pink and blue — sometimes
earth tones, such as chocolate brown and deep green, but these are
secondary to the pastels.
Number 6 people wilt observe a subtle beneficial change in their
general well-being and can increase their positive essence by wearing
opals next to the skin . . . and sometimes, copper.
The 6 vibration brings a tendency to suffer from infections of the
throat, nose, and upper part of the lungs — also the chest and breast
area. Women influenced by the 6 are prone to breast problems and
sometimes "milk fever" in childbirth. There are often mild heart com-
plaints, which lead to irregular circulation of the blood. The bladder
and kidneys are vulnerable, and 6 people should avoid foods with
sugar. As a general rule, 6 people have a strong, robust constitution
when they either live in the country — or visit frequently a place
where they can have plenty of fresh air and exercise. If they Hve in the
city, they should make a serious effort to spend frequent weekends
and vacations in the country.
May, October, and November of every year are the months when

-- 137 of 676 --

74 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
most ill health symptoms — mental or physical — sickness or acci-
dent — will strike the Number 6 person, brought on by negative
emotional attitudes, depression, tension, anxiety, or overwork. 6 peo-
ple should practice remaining serene each year as these months ap-
proach. After a while, practice makes perfect, and they'll be able to
greatly dilute or even negate the tendency toward illness or accident at
these times. The practice of serenity should begin at least a month
before each month just given.
The foods which should be eaten frequently by a 6 person are: all
kinds of beans, parsnips, spinach, melons, apples, peaches, apricots,
figs, walnuts and almonds — especially almonds. The principal herbs
which will go a very long way toward the eventual achievement of
permanent good health for a Number 6 person are: mint, marrows,
motherwart, pomegranates, juice of maidenhair, fern, daffodils, wild
thyme, musk, violets, vervain, and rose leaves. Isn't that a lovely com-
bination ? Lucky 6 people !
When these*herbs are taken in liquid form by a person born on
the 6th, 15th, or 24th day of any month, any year, they act as Nature's
tranquilizer and tonic. A remarkable and swift change is noticed
when three or four teaspoons are taken to relieve anxiety, stress, de-
pression, anger, or other mental or emotional disturbances. The liq-
uid should be taken (one tablespoon) twice a week on a regular basis
— and more if necessary under stress or tension. The way to obtain
the herbal liquid for Number 6 people is explained at the end of the
Number 1 analysis.
The Number 7
The colors that harmonize with the Number 7 vibration are: sea
green, light yellow, aqua, pink, and white. 7 people should avoid
wearing black or dark colors, even when these are indicated by the Sun
Sign.
Number 7 people will observe a subtle beneficial change in their
general well-being and can increase their positive essence by wearing

-- 138 of 676 --

AN APPLE A DAY * 75
an amethyst or emerald next to the skin. Water lilies and lotus blos-
soms will curiously lift their spirits when the heart is sad, lonely, or
longing.
The Number 7 brings a tendency to suffer from anxiety. These
people are more easily affected by worry, annoyance, and frustration
than others. As long as their personal and business affairs are running
smoothly, they're capable of producing amazing amounts of work, at
home or in the office. But when they become worried by circum-
stances around them or the behavior of other people, they're inclined
to imagine that things are worse than they are, and fall into melan-
choly, which results in extreme physical fatigue. Unusually suscepti-
ble to their surroundings, they soak up negative situations and
attitudes like a sponge.
When they feel they're genuinely needed — and appreciated, 7
people will cheerfully take on any responsibility, and are unusually
conscientious in carrying out their work. It's difficult for them to
realize that they're not as strong physically as they are mentally; often
the body is frail, and the 7 person attempts too much for his or her
own strength, a major cause of all their health problems. They're
inclined to have extremely delicate skin, sensitive to the sun and fric-
tion, perhaps some peculiarity regarding perspiration — and eating
things that disagree with the digestive system frequently results in
boils, pimples, and rashes.
January, February, July, and August of every year are the months
when most ill health symptoms — mental or physical — sickness or
. accident — will strike the Number^7 person, brought on by negative
emotional attitudes, depression, tension, anxiety, or overwork. 7 peo-
ple should practice remaining serene each year as these months ap-
proach. After a while, practice makes perfect, and they'll be able to
greatly dilute or even negate the tendency toward illness or accident at
these times. The practice of serenity should begin at least a month
before each month given. -
v
The foods which should be eaten frequently by a 7 person are:

-- 139 of 676 --

76 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
lettuce, cabbage, endive, cucumbers, mushrooms, apples, cranberries,
and the juices of all fruits. The principal herbs which will go a very
long way toward the eventual achievement of permanent good health
for a 7 person are: chicory, colewort, linseed, ceps, and sorrel.
When these herbs are taken in liquid form by a person bom on
the 7th, 16th, or 25th day of any month, in any year, they act as
Nature's tranquilizer and tonic. A remarkable and swift change is
noticed when three or four teaspoons are taken to relieve anxiety,
stress, depression, anger, or other mental or emotional disturbances.
The liquid should be taken (one tablespoon) twice a week on a regular
basis — and more if necessary under tension and stress. The way to
obtain the herbal liquid for Number 7 people is explained at the end
of the number 1 analysis.
The Number 8
The colors that harmonize with the Number 8 vibration are: in-
digo, all shades of brown, dark green, and navy blue.
Number 8 people will observe a subtle and beneficial change in
their general well-being and can increase their positive essence by
wearing a diamond or onyx next to the skin.
8 people are more liable than others to suffer from troubles with
the liver, bile, intestines, and excretory part of the system. They have
a tendency to develop migraine headaches, diseases of the blood,
rheumatism and autopoisoning. They are advised to avoid meat of all
kinds, since they are especially allergic to animal food.
January, February, July, and December of every year are the
months when most ill health symptoms — mental or physical — sick-
ness or accident — will strike the Number 8 person, brought on by
negative emotional attitudes, depression, tension, anxiety, or over-
work. (Spells of deep depression are more common with 8 people
than with those influenced by any other number.) 8 people should
practice remaining serene each year as these months approach. After

-- 140 of 676 --

AN APPLE A DAY * 77
a while, practice makes perfect, and they'll be able to greatly dilute or
even negate the tendency toward illness or accident at these times.
The foods which should be eaten frequently by an 8 person are:
spinach, carrots and wild carrots, broccoli, and celery. The principal
herbs which will go a very long way toward the eventual achievement
of permanent good health for a Number 8 person are: wintergreen,
angelica, sage, plantain, pileworth, ragwort, shepherd's purse, Sol-
omon's seal, vervain, elder flowers, gravel root, and mandrake root.
When these herbs are taken in liquid form by a person born on
the 8th, 17th, or 26th day of any month, any year, they act as Nature's
tranquilizer and tonic. A remarkable and swift change is noticed
when three or four teaspoons are taken to relieve anxiety, stress, de-
.
pression, anger, or other mental or emotional disturbances. The liq-
uid should be taken (one tablespoon) twice a week on a regular basis
— and more if necessary under tension or stress. The way to obtain
the herbal liquid for Number 8 people is explained at the end of the
Number 1 analysis.
The Number 9
The colors that harmonize with the Number 9 vibration are:
crimson or ruby red (with no orange tones), true blue, and pure white.
Number 9 people will observe a subtle beneficial change in their
general well-being, and can increase their positive essence by wearing
a ruby next to the skin.
The 9 vibration brings a strong tendency to suffer from head-
aches, extremely high fevers, illnesses that strike suddenly, are
fulminating, and usually disappear as quickly as they appeared. It's
very rare for a 9 person to develop an illness that lingers or is chronic,
and should this occur, it's most important to have such sickness cor-
rectly diagnosed, since it's opposed to the very nature of the 9 es-
sence. The recuperative powers are vital and swift. 9 people seldom
avoid chicken pox, smallpox, scarlet fever, or scarletina and such. 9

-- 141 of 676 --

78 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
people should be careful not to take chances during sports or other
such activities, since they're prone to accidents to the head, cuts, and
burns. There may be more than the average tooth problems and fre-
quent trips to the dentist (which they hate). 9 people are especially
warned to avoid rich foods, alcoholic drinks, and wines of all kinds.
February, April, May, October, and November of every year are
the months when most ill health symptoms — mental or physical —
sickness or accident — will strike the Number 9 person, brought on
by negative emotional attitudes, depression, tension, anxiety, or over-
work. 9 people should practice remaining serene each year as these
months approach. After a while, practice makes perfect, and they'll be .
able to greatly dilute or even negate the tendency toward illness or
accident at these times.
The foods which should be eaten frequently by a 9 person are:
onions, garlic, rhubarb, horseradish and tomatoes (unless there's an
allergy to these initiating from some planetary aspect in the' horo-
scope). The principal herbs which will go a very long way toward the
eventual achievement of permanent good health for a Number 9 per-
son are: mustard seed, wormwood, betony, spearwort, white
hellebore, ginger, pepper, broom, rape, madder, hops, danewort, and
juice of nettles.
When these herbs are taken in liquid form by a person born on
the 9th, 18th, or 27th day of any month, any year, they act as Nature's
tranquilizer and tonic. A remarkable and swift change is noticed
when three or four teaspoons are taken to relieve anxiety, stress, de-
pression, anger, or other mental and emotional disturbances. One
tablespoon of the liquid should be taken twice a week on a regular
basis, and more if necessary under tension or stress. The way to ob-
tain the herbal liquid for Number 9 people is explained at the end of
the Number 1 analysis.
******
You'll notice that particular colors and gems were given at the

-- 142 of 676 --

AN APPLE A DAY * 79
beginning of each Single Number in the foregoing health analysis.
The colors constitute, a portion of your aura when it's harmoniously
balanced, as related to the day you were bom.
Another portion of your aura when it's harmoniously balanced is
composed of the colors of your Sun Sign — another portion is com-
posed of the colors of the Ascendent or Rising Sign of your Nativity or
Birth Chart (Horoscope). Completing your personal rainbow (your
aura) are the colors representing all of your planetary positions at
birth: the astrological signs in which the planets and Luminaries (Sun
and Moon) were located when you drew your first breath.
However, the predominating auric colors having an effect upon
your tranquility and well-being are those colors representing the day
you were born — your Sun Sign — and the Ascendent or Rising Sign
of your Horoscope. Here are the colors — and gems — of eachr^f the
12 Sun Signs. Study them, and then we'll discuss how to use them.
ARIES: (Mars) - 9 ruby or crimson red, true
blue, and white
TAURUS: (Venus) 6 rose pink, all shades of blue,
Pan-Horus brown, and deep-green
GEM1M: (Mercury) 5 pearl gray, light green, and
silver
CANCER: (Moon) 2 light green, pale yellow,
silver, violet, and lavender
LEO: (Sun) 1 sunny yellow, orange,
sometimes purple
VIRGO: (Mercury) 5 pearl gray and silver (as in
Vulcan Gemini 5) — but also forest
green and white

-- 143 of 676 --

80 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
LIBRA: (Venus) 6 rose pink (as in Taurus 6) —
but also pastel shades of
every color, especially light
blue
SCORPIO: (Pluto) black, blood red, burgundy,
wine, and maroon
SAGITTARIUS: (J uPiter) 3 autumn colors, such as
yellow, bright orange and
rust — also turquoise.
Sagittarius sometimes shares
the love of purple with Leo
8 indigo, navy blue, all shades
of brown, and dark green
4 electric blue and cobalt blue,
silver gray, and ocean green
PISCES: (Neptune) 7 emerald green, light yellow,
pink, and white
******
CAPRICORN: (Saturn)
AQUARIUS: (Uranus)
ARIES: ruby
TAURUS: sapphire
GEMINI: aquamarine
CANCER: moonstone and pearls
LEO: topaz
VIRGO: green or white jade
LIBRA: opal
SCORPIO:
SAGITTARIUS:
CAPRICORN:
AQUARIUS:
PISCES:
bloodstones
turquoise
diamond
(and onyx)J
mixed
azurite/
malachite I
emerald anl
amethyst *

-- 144 of 676 --

AN APPLE A DAY * 81
A later chapter, Forgotten Rainbows, will define your aura in more
detail. Here we're concerned only with the colors and gems you can
use to benefit your health and general well-being because of their
influence over your emotions.
How to Use Your Personal Colors and Gems
For the moment, ignore the numbers just given for each of the 12
Sun Signs.
Now read again the first two paragraphs of your individual Single
Number health analysis/which tell you how to use the colors and
gems that vibrate to the day of your birth.
Memorize the colors and gems of the astrological sign which is
your individual Sun Sign. (See Page 1 1 for the Sun Signs periods of
birth if you don't know your own Sun Sign.)
If you know the Ascendent or Rising Sign of your Nativity or
Horoscope, memorize also the colors and gems of that particular as-
trological sign — but make sure that your birth chart has been cor-
rectly rectified, so you can be certain of it. If you're not sure, it's safer
to forget your Ascendent and use only the colors and gems of your day
of birth (given under each Single Number health analysis) — and the
colors and gems of your Sun Sign.
The combination or blending of the colors and gems of your day
of birth — your Sun Sign — and your Ascendent Sign (only if you're
absolutely sure of it) — will be surprisingly helpful in helping you to
achieve the emotional tranquility necessary as a foundation for good
health.
Some Examples
If you're a Leo, born on August 13th, the single number 4 is your
birth number. (See page 66.) Use the colors and gems given in the
Single Number 4 health analysis — and combine them with the colors

-- 145 of 676 --

82 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
and gems given for the astrological sign of Leo, which is your Sun Sign
(see pages 79, 80) — then add the colors and gems of the astrological
sign of your Horoscope's Ascendent, assuming you are certain of it. Of
not, as I said, disregard it) Wear the gems next to your skin and use the
colors in your clothing and in your surroundings as much as possible.
If you're an Aries, born on March 27th, the single number 9 is
your birth number (the day of your birth). Use the colors and gems .
given in the Single Number 9 health analysis — and combine them
with the colors and gems that vibrate to the astrological sign of your
.
Horoscope's Ascendent, assuming you are certain of it. (If not, dis-
regard it.) Notice that the number of your Sun Sign is 9, the same as
the single number 9 of the day of your birth (March 27th: 2 plus 7 =
9). Therefore, you're under a double 9 influence, and everything
stated in the Single Number 9 health analysis relating to your day of
birth is intensified.
IMPORTANT
Remember that you must not use the number of your Sun Sign to*
read any particular Single Number health analysis, as it will not apply
— unless it happens to be the same as the single number of your day of
birth. The numbers for each Sun Sign are given only to guide you
should you happen to have the double influence of a single number,
such as the Aries example in the foregoing paragraph.
Some Additional Examples
If you're a Taurus Sun Sign, born on May 7th, 16th or April 25th,
the single number of the day of your birth is 7. The number of the
Sun Sign of Taurus is given as 6. Do not read the Single Number 6 health
analysis given in this chapter — because it mil not apply to you. If
you're a Taurus Sun Sign, born on any of the above days equaling the
single number 7, read only the Single Number 7 health analysis — but
combine the colors and gems given in the Single Number 7 health
analysis with those given for the Taurus Sun Sign — and those given
for the astrological sign of your Horoscope's Ascendent, if you are
certain of it. Otherwise, disregard the Ascendent and use only the

-- 146 of 676 --

AN APPLE A DAY * 83
colors and gems of the single number of your birth day, combined
with the colors and gems of your Sun Sign. Wear the gems next to
your skin, and use the colors in your clothing and in your surround-
ings as much as possible.
A Reminder
In all cases, study the type of illness related to your Element (Fire,
Air, Earth or Water) — the parts of the body ruled by your Sun Sign
— then study the Single Number health analysis for the day of your
birth — and finally, the colors and gems given for your day of birth,
your Sun Sign and your Ascendent (if you know what it is) and com-
bine these.
******
Before leaving the subject of your health, let's consider the dis-
ease or the physical, mental, and emotional disharmony called cancer.
In 1984, a Los Angeles hospital tried an experiment with a dozen
or so children doomed to die from "terminal illness/^mostly cancer.
None were over the age of twelve, I've been told, and this is important,
as well see shortly. The dying youngsters were told to close their eyes
tightly, then imagine (image or visualize) a brilliant white light. One
of the children, a small boy, was photographed for a television news
show while he was imaging. "I see it, I See it, I see it !" he cried
ecstatically as his eyes were squeezed shut. It moved me — and I'm
sure other viewers also — to tears.
The boy recovered. Nearly all of the children involved in the
white light experiment displayed spontaneous remission of their al-
legedly "terminal" illnesses.
The important ingredient in this particular group of miracles was
the chronological age of the patients. None over twelve. The pineal
gland is the Third Eye of mystical teaching. It's been medically dis-
covered that in children under the age of twelve, the pineal gland is

-- 147 of 676 --

84 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
soft and malleable, like clay. In humans past the age of twelve (adults)
the pineal gland is as hard as a rock, proving what young people
secretly believe, that most adults "have rocks in their heads." The
pineal gland is the seat of spiritual wisdom. Children have imaginary
playmates, who are actually very real — they see and talk with small
fairies and nature spirits — they tell their parents that "Uncle Charlie
(dead for several years) sat on my bed last night and told me stories."
They do these things until they are so repeatedly chastized by adults;
"You simply must stop lying. Uncle Charlie could not possibly have
visited you. He's dead — and there are no such things as druids and
faeries and imaginary playmates. Your friend 'Peggy' does not exist, so
you must stop talking to her aloud as you do. People will think you
are crazy" — that their Third Eyes become hard and impotent, blind
to real truth. Sometimes spankings accompany the scoldings.
I always wondered, once I decided to dive into the deep waters of
astrology (and later explore the caverns and caves of numerology),
after I'd started to meditate on the astrological symbols of the twelve
signs, from Aries through Pisces, why people couldn't imitate the ma-
rine crab, which is the symbol of the sign Cancer, the Crab. When the
marine crab loses a claw in some manner, it will swiftly grow a new
one. Why not humans ? Are lizards and crabs more evolved than
we ? A lizard can grow a new tail if the original one is cut off or lost in
some manner.
So now we know that a human body can lose a finger and grow a
new finger. Do you believe, then, that one could also grow a new arm
or leg after having lost either ? Or perhaps even a new kidney ? If
your answer is "yes," congratulations ! You're already an honorary
"druid" (Nature Spirit), and well on your way to the enchanted world
of enlightenment. If your answer is "no," I have a second question for
you.
Why not?
******

-- 148 of 676 --

AN APPLE A DAY" * 85
One "terminal" two-year-old boy with cancer kept drawing but-
terflies with a black crayon in St. Raphael's Hospital. A clear picture,
his doctor, Bernie Siegal, tried to tell the boy's parents, of the despair
all around him (from concerned and negative-thinking parents and
relatives). The butterflies were the small child's attempt to believe in
tomorrow; the black crayons he always chose revealed that the fearful
thoughts of others were overpowering what could have been the kind
of miracle so easily manifested by the faith, innocence, and profound
wisdom of childhood, a situation which should also be familiar to the
readers of this chapter by now. The sad part of it is that the boy's
relatives, like most relatives of allegedly "terminally ill" children, are
not aware that their genuine concern and nondeliberate negativism is
so damaging to the natural healing process.
In Dr. Siegal's book, Love, Medicine and Miracles, published in
1986 by Harper and Row, he tells of his attempt to teach patients how
to master meditation and imagery; how to picture their bodies suc-
cessfully fighting cancer. One of his true stories is about a small boy
with a brain tumor. Several of his doctors had given up, and had
stopped treating him; his family was waiting for him to die. But this
boy opened his Third Eye, as adults seldom do. He began to regularly
image his cancer cells being bombarded by video-game rocket ships.
In a short time, the brain tumor and the cancer disappeared.
Now Dr. Siegal is one of my medical heroes, along with my own
. Dr. John Perry, of Hollywood, California.
Dr. Perry doesn't realize, how wonderfully he practices the holis-
tic healing methods It just comes naturally to him. As he's said to
me often, "I always treat my patients as complete individuals. They
are the priority, not the disease or infection they have — because the
very same disease or infection will act in a totally different way with
each person." When his patients have a good day, he invariably ex-
claims with genuine pleasure, "Isn't that just wonderful ! You're in the
home stretch now !" I can personally attest to the rare and unique
charisma he»possesses in somehow making each patient feel that what-

-- 149 of 676 --

86 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
ever might be the problem, it isn't all that serious, and even if it is, it is
most certainly curable and reversible. It's an attitude (real, not
feigned) that makes a whole universe of difference. Dr. Perry expertly
and professionally employs all modern methods of diagnosis and
treatment, all the benefits medicine has to offer, then mixes these with
genuine caring and an optimistic sort of knowing that a healing will
take place, as long as the patient believes it will. This is a doctor whose
compassion is part of his very nature. In 1968, he became one of the
ten founders of the Western Special Olympics for physically handi-
capped youngsters (covering seven states) which, in 1972, became the
California Special Olympics. A large slice of his free time is cheerfully
given to this project which has brought such happiness to these chil- 1|
dren, and has made impressively positive changes in their mental | «,
conditions.
He loves to play golf (most doctors do, because golf is one of the ] A
most relaxing of pastimes), but he seldom has time to play. He adores J
d>
traveling, but very rarely has an opportunity to do so. There is always |*
a patient or two who needs him, and he continually cancels his few 1 $e
and far between social engagements to make an urgent house call, jp
(Yes, a house call. Some doctors still make them.) It's easy to see why ]
this intense Scorpio healer is able to almost will his patients to re- J.
cover. To him, all illness, including cancer, is an unnatural condition, | A
his personal enemy — and good health a normal and natural state of
being — not the other way around, as many medical people see it.
Too many physicians become so hypnotized by being around sickness
so much, they subconsciously begin to think of it as normal and ex-
pected. It's easy to drift into such an attitude, but Dr. John Perry is in
no danger of that ! His powerful drive and energy is highly con-
tagious. No one can avoid "catching it" from him. It infects everyone
around him.
A book that will have a strong influence on your thinking, make
the deepest impression on you, and perhaps be responsible for chang-

-- 150 of 676 --

AN APPLE A DAY * 87
ing your attitude toward cancer, is by Dr. Max Gerson, called A Cancer
Therapy — 50 Cases. It's still available at most health food stores, or if
not, most of them can order it, because it's still in print.
His research was logical, and made sense, emphasizing the meta-
physical rule that you can't go wrong in anything you do if you follow
the natural patterns of Nature.
Dr. Gerson's methods were simple and basic, as was his theory,
and when he put them into practice, they proved themselves time and
time again.
He was convinced that cancer could not spread, and would
quickly reverse itself if the body's immune system could be restored.
And the way to do this, he believed (and repeatedly proved), was to
eliminate from the cancer patient's diet all liquids and foods except
those heavy in fiber content: certain cereals, and fresh raw fruits and
vegetables, eating these exclusively, along with a substantial intake of
several vitamins, chiefly C and E (D-alpha tocopherol E, not mixed
tocopherols) for periods ranging from ninety days to six months or so.
Most of his patients were cured within the 90-day period. The
"terminal" ones, instead of eating fresh raw fruits and vegetables, drank
the juices of fresh raw fruits and vegetables, took the prescribed
amount of vitamins, and ate or drank nothing else. It took somewhat
longer for them to restore their bodies' immune system, but the result
of reversal of the disease was the same as with the swifter healings.
Those in the first group also drank the juices of the fresh fruits and
vegetables as well as eating them raw for their fiber content Both
groups received lots of sunlight, lots of rest and sleep, lots of fresh
pure water — and large doses of confidence and optimism from rela-
tives who believed in Dr. Gerson's treatments. Confidence is highly
contagious, and. was also a major factor in the visible and rapid im-
provement in the condition of the patients under Dr. Gerson's care.
Although the medical profession at the time shrugged its collec-
tive shoulders regarding Dr. Gerson's discoveries, today, finally, these

-- 151 of 676 --

88 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
same physicians are recommending the eating of high fiber-conteni
foods for the "prevention" of cancer.
Max Gerson was no1
"health fad nut," which some of his enemii
called him behind his back (and some still do). Rather, he was
professional, careful, and accredited physician, who permanen
cured Dr. Albert Schweitzer's wife of tuberculosis after several oth«
doctors had failed to do so. Dr. Gerson possessed the vision a
inspired determination of a pioneer in any field, as did vitamin
proponent, Dr. Linus Pauling, and one of vitamin E's proponents,
Shute of Canada.
******
Everything I have said about cancer applies to aids. (I refuse tojfi
give it capital letters.) Aids need not kill through paralyzing thdl
body's immune system. Now that does deserve capital letters. Aidsfl
NEED NOT KILL
******
When I began to write this chapter, I happened to see a televisions
special about aids.
Near the close of the program, a man who was diagnosed aM
suffering from "advanced aids" was interviewed. His doctors told him™
on camera it was a certainty that he would be dead within a year. Hcd
didn't believe them. He truly did not. You could see it in his eyes ad|
he stated firmly that he expected to heal himself — and live. I don'tH
know if he was gay or heterosexual or bisexual, and I don't care. El
wept for him. Not tears of sorrow and compassion. Tears of joy !||
And I couldn't resist saying aloud to his bright, brave, and confidents
face on the television screen,* "Right on ! And . . . expect a miracle ! A
******

-- 152 of 676 --

3
GURUS, GHOSTS,
AND
AVATARS
the Rocky Mountain "highs" of magnetic power points
and astral vibratory frequencies,
including clairaudience and clairvoyance
at ten thousand feet above sea level
•

-- 153 of 676 --

90 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
was it a mystical chill I felt that night ?
it was odd to shake so uncontrollably in a public dining plac
to feel such an icy shiver
when I was sitting within three feet
of a roaring fireplace
I saw him look at you
and you . . . look back at him
and ... what did he say then . . . that strange man ?
"when an astral entity," he said, "from any level of awarene
whether it be the astral of one who has died
a space traveler ... or merely the astral of someone
somewhere, asleei:
when such an entity, out of body
in whatever form, from whatever dimension
approaches . . . comes near one's vicinity
that entity is vibrating at such a higher rate
of angstrom units per second
than the vibratory frequency of most humans
that it causes a marked drop in temperature
as the air currents are suddenly cooled . . .
and the change is so sharp and unexpected
that one might . . . shall we say . . . feel a draft 7*
everyone laughed
then you whispered
"Darling, did you see a ghost ?"
and offered me your sweater
******

-- 154 of 676 --

GURUS, GHOSTS, AND AVATARS * 91
r you've read my Preface to this book, which I as-
sume you have, you know that the star sign codes I'll
be writing about were revealed to me in the Rocky
Mountains, where the Guru told me I would be going
on a sort of retreat, to be instructed. As I also men-
tioned in my Introduction, I kept a diary while I was there, planning
to later use my notes to write a book about my experiences. Since Star
Signs is, therefore, based on my diary notes, it seems appropriate to
share with you the haunted setting of the place where I was told,
"when the student is ready, the teacher will appear."
Actually, more than one "teacher" appeared during my mountain
retreat in Cripple Creek, Colorado, which I later decided to make my
permanent residence. I experienced several arcane meetings there,
some of which will form the basis for future books. Legend claims
that those who possess a knowledge of the deeper mysteries of the
macrocosm of Heaven and the microcosm of Nature often nestle
themselves in the quiet forests of the Earth's highest altitudes, and as
I've mentioned, Cripple Creek is 10,000 feet above sea level. I'd like
to tell you what these Avatars or Gurus taught me about magnetic
power points and ghosts which, I must confess, I never believed in
until my arrival in this former gold-mining town in the Rockies.
A magnetic power point is a place where intense emotions have
repeatedly .occurred, making the surrounding area sensitive to all
manner of vibrations. You can, as people have often said, "feel it in
the air." Stories about haunted houses abound all over the world,
usually in places where several murders or other evil events occurred.
No one can walk near the concentration camps in Germany without
sensing the heavy clouds of depression and tragedy. That's on the
negative side. Gn the positive side, other magnetic power points also
exist, like churches centuries of years old, or shrines, where millions
of candles have flickered over hundreds of years, and millions of
prayers have been spoken, leaving their unmistakable impressions
upon the ethers. One feels calm and peaceful and tranquil in these
places, just as one feels vaguely disturbed and sad in other places

-- 155 of 676 --

92 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
heavily charged with the electromagnetic intense emotions of past
events.
Cripple Creek is thus highly charged and fairly quivering with
intense vibrations — of a mixed sort. During the gold rush of the late
1880s and 1890s, emotions ran high in this mountain town . . . and
dreams multiplied themselves. There were major fires, murders, fer-
vent religious teachings and preachings, houses of prostitution, greed,
lust, and all the shimmering fantasies gold has always stirred in hu-
man hearts. Definitely a magnetic power point.
Cripple Creek was called the Bowl of Gold by gold-mining kin
Winfield Scott Stratton. Is it mere coincidence, or a deeper sy
chronicity of blood tie harmonics that my maternal elf-mother
(grandmother's), maiden name was Stratton — and Stratton is also i
father's middle name ?
The area is known as The District, which includes Cripple Creek
the neighboring town of Victor, about five miles or so south .
several now deserted but once booming little towns with names lik
Independence and Goldfield. One of the deserted gold mines
tween Cripple Creek and Victor is called The Abraham Lincoln. The
there's the still-open-for- tourists gold mine called The Mollie Kath
leen, on Tenderfoot Mountain, looking down on the town . . . Th
Stratton mine, and many others. In Victor is a long-shuttered silen
film theatre called the Isis.
The District was the scene of the "Pikes-Peak-or-Bust" gold
at the turn of the century. Stratton claimed that Cripple Creek, siti
ated in a valley, is the center of a "bowl of gold" created by the Ion
ago eruption of a volcano — and that only a fraction of the gold ther
was taken, even during all the frenzied mining activity of the 189
It could all happen again, they say, if the Old-Timers' persistent pr<
dictions that the price of gold will rise to an all-time high by the lati
1980s or early 1990s, making the mining of it economically feasibk
once again — is more than just wishful thinking. I have a hunch th
it's more.

-- 156 of 676 --

GURUS, GHOSTS, AND AVATARS * 93
Miners are unexpectedly psychic. Miners know things. They
don't understand how they know, they just know. After all, they're
the ones who discovered and recognized the elusive Tommyknockers,
those wee folk who play mischievous tricks yet who also sometimes
miraculously protect the men who labor deep within the bowels of the
Earth.
If The District should become, during the approaching 1990s,
the stage for an encore of the gold mystique drama, there will be a
regrettable difference. The lead players won't be riding out on horse-
back to stake their claims, followed by their stubborn but patient bur-
ros, back: packed with bundles of colorful dreams. They'll be riding
to their conglomerate-controlled domains in jeeps and pickup trucks.
Meanwhile, both Cripple Creek and neighboring Victor (where
Lowell Thomas was born, raised, and ran the local newspaper, and
where Jack Dempsey trained for his fights) are currently inhabited by
more ghosts than people — more potbellied stoves than pots of gold
at the end of the rainbow. The population of Victor is said to be
around two or three hundred, give or take a few restless roamers —
and Cripple Creek's population is between seven and nine hundred,
depending on whether you believe the census takers or the Old-
Timers, who count more accurately, they insist, because they include
the lively ghosts overlooked by uninitiated' outsiders, I don't overlook
the ghosts there. I only wish I could overlook them !
It's a considerable drop from New York's ten million or so bodies
and souls, if you count the suburbs and the subway car and sidewalk *
sleepers. Manhattan doesn't have many ghosts. Since ghosts are
composed of a finer etheric substance than flesh, they would probably
melt away in the polluted air. Los Angeles is different. Hollywood
attracts a hardier breed of phantoms, able to breathe the smog and still
do a respectable night's work haunting.
Most occult tomes tell you that ghosts, phantoms, and such, be-
long to the astral world of dreams, and are not at home on the material

-- 157 of 676 --

94 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
plane in the third dimensional level. It doesn't seem to matter any-
more whether that's true or not, because I'm about to conclude that
there's no difference between them — dreams and reality. Or is it just
that these two concepts are mirror-reversed, and what people believe
is one — is, in actuality, the other ?
When you fall asleep at night, leaving behind the so-called world
of "reality" for the world of dreams, have you noticed that — no mat-
ter how hard you try, as you're drifting off to slumberland, to hold on to
the "reality" of the sounds of the television, traffic, or the dog snoring
— they fade away into oblivion ?
Conversely, when you awake in the morning, leaving behind the
so-called "dream world" for the world of reality, have you likewise
noticed that — no matter how hard you try, as you're waking up, to
hold on to the sights and sounds of the "dream" you just had — they
fade away into oblivion in exactly the same manner as the sights and
sounds of "reality" fade when you're falling asleep ?
Polarized points of view, interchangeable — indisputably. And
so, which is the "dream," and which is the "reality" ? Who is to say ?
How do you really know that this very waking moment is not the
dream, and last night's dream the true reality ? The ancient wise ones
taught that "dreams are the true reality." Aristotle wrote: "Life is an
imitation of art . . . and art is an imitation of reality; therefore, life is-s|
but an imitation of reality." The reality of dreams. The Tibetan 1
monks in bygone centuries, when they prayed, chanted repeatedly,
"This is the world of illusion . . . this is the world of illusion."
I suppose the Bible Fundamentalists, who still image God as a
kindly man with a snow-white beard, would view such an interchange
as sacrilegious. Speaking of Divinity, one of the first things I noticed
when I arrived in Colorado's glorious Rockies was a sign proclaiming
the state as "God's Country." It was the hint of exclusivity that both-
ered me a little, since it insinuates that He isn't concerned with
crowded cities anymore, and that's obviously where He's most needed
just now.

-- 158 of 676 --

GURUS, GHOSTS, AND AVATARS * 95
Maybe She is watching over the cities for Him. I mean my
Mother Who art in Heaven, right alongside my Father Who art there.
As you can see, I'm not a follower of the patriarch concept. It takes a
positive-negative energy force . . . male-female ... to create anything
at all, whether flesh infants or solar systems. Any other concept is a
direct denial of the laws of both physics and metaphysics.
When you begin the drive up to Cripple Creek, just before you
come to the twisting, serpentine, winding road named Ute Pass after
the Ute Indians who once lived in the area, you pass a town called
Manitou — Manitou meaning "Great Spirit" or God, which should be
spelled properly "Mannitou," according to numerology. (You'll un-
derstand why the Great Spirit's name should contain two n's instead of
one when you've studied Chapter 5, Numerology.)
As you drive by Mannitou (let's don't misspell the Great Spirit's
name), on your right is something the Utes dreamed into reality,
called the Garden of the Gods. It's a stirring and awesome sight of
mute power and grandeur, even from a distance.
The Utes allowed no members of any Indian tribe at war with any
other tribe to enter there, and walk along its sacred ground. Only
those red men (and women) who were at peace with their brothers
(and sisters) were permitted to participate in the mystic rites of eso-
teric initiation within that haunted, hushed sanctuary of sunrise-dyed,
strangely shaped red rock formations . . . as reddish in hue as Scarlett
O'Hara's "red clay of Tara." Nowhere else in. the vicinity is the earth
red colored . . . except for a place a few miles beyond Cripple Creek,
called, appropriately, Phantom Canyon. There are several theories
among geologists concerning the cause of the red rock and red clay,
But no one really knows for certain.
The violent thunderstorms — or electrical storms — occurring
frequently in the mountains have never made me gloomy. They exhil-
arate me, and stir me profoundly. Thunder and lightning seem to
evoke some deep and long-buried sense of power in me, as though I

-- 159 of 676 --

96 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
could stop it or start it if I chose. As though . . . everyone else could
do it, too, if they remembered how to project such power. Like an
.
invisible energy force everyone long ago possessed, then lost. The
only thing is, I'm not sure whether I feel good or bad about it —
whether it's a positive or a negative memory bell I hear chiming in the
back of my mind.
i
Until I learned about vibratory frequencies, I could find no ra-
tional reason to believe in ghosts, although I was certainly not a com-
plete sceptic, since the entire spectrum of mystical and metaphysical
subjects had won me to the side of the "invisible" long before I first
went to Colorado. Still, ghosts were . . . well, something else again. I
was aware that they were usually seen — or more frequently reported
— in "haunted" magnetic power point areas of both high spiritual
vibrations (churches, shrines, and so forth) and the lower vibrations of
crime and evil (mass murders, satanic rites, and so forth).
And so it was that I didn't even "believe" in the ghosts seen and
heard in my own "haunted" house there on Carr Avenue — whether
they were seen and heard by myself or others — until one of the
Gurus I mentioned explained it to me. Before then, I laughed it off,
but uneasily, because I couldn't explain away what kept happening.
First, there was the "party." Nearly every night after I first ar-
rived (and less frequently during later weeks, months, and years) 1
actually had to stuff cotton in my ears to be able to sleep through the
noise. The house was filled with the sounds of a gala party, including
the tinkling of glasses, muffled conversation and laughter (loud
enough to hear clearly, but too indistinct to make out the words) —
and the music of a piano, accompanied by a man and a woman singing-
a duet at intervals (again, clearly heard, but too indistinct to make out
the lyrics).
The first night I slept there it happened. My initial response was

-- 160 of 676 --

GURUS, GHOSTS, AND AVATARS * 97
that the man from whom I rented the house I later fought had left a
radio on somewhere. So I rose from the couch in the den (where I
slept the first few nights, being still too apprehensive to sleep in one of
the upstairs bedrooms) — and walked into the kitchen, which seemed
to be the room from where the party sounds were coming. As soon as
.
I entered the kitchen, the party seemed to be coming from the base-
ment. Gingerly, 1 opened the basement door, and cautiously peeked
down into the darkness. Then the sounds seemed to be coming from
the front porch.
Annoyed, I thought that perhaps my neighbors, whom I hadn't
yet met, were having a party, and were being quite inconsiderate to
allow the noise to be so loud when other people were trying to sleep.
So I opened the front door and walked out on the porch. The houses
on either side of me were dark and silent, as were all the houses visible
across the street. Then the party noise stopped as suddenly as it be-
gan, proving it couldn't have come from a radio accidentally left on by
the landlord somewhere in the house.
Standing on the porch at that moment, looking up at the mid-
night blue sky, sparkling with every single star in the heavens (a sight I
had never seen through the smog in New York) 1 heard a new noise. It
sounded like a rushing brook or stream, punctuated by a faint but
distinct drumbeat. I must confess that for a few seconds I was thor-
oughly frightened. After a moment's reflection, I realized, with a sud-
den shock, that I was hearing the sound of my own pulse and
heartbeat, the flowing rhythms of my own blood in my veins — in my
inner ear. The sounds of silence. Utter silence. Since I had never
stood in the night at any time in my life surrounded by total silence, it
was a curious and fascinating experience. "Silence is noisy until you
become accustomed to it !" I thought, as I listened to the roars and
pulsing rhythms of my own body. Then . . .the bray of a burro (they
call them mountain canaries) split the air for a second. Afterward,
silence again.
I must have remained on the front porch for nearly a half hour,
;

-- 161 of 676 --

98 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
pondering "the sounds of silence." Finally, I walked back inside the
house, closed the door, climbed back on the couch, pulled the
grandma quilt up under my chin, and fell asleep. For a very short
time. It couldn't have been .more than a few minutes until I was
awakened again by the "wild party," the tinkling glasses, conversation,
laughter, piano playing, and singing. It rose in pitch louder and
louder as I tossed and turned, as unable to sleep as if a television set
had been turned on full volume next to the couch. Realizing now that
it was no use to search for the source of the party sounds, I turned on
my side, covered my exposed ear with a pillow ... and eventually fell
back to sleep.
When I related the incident (which occurred periodically over a
period of time . . . and still does on infrequent occasions, fifteen years
later), I was told that "everyone who's ever lived in that house has
heard the same wild party." Neighbors and others informed me that
my house had once, for a couple of years, been used as a sort of annex
to The Old Homestead (still standing) — called the "oldest red-light
house in the West." It was evident that they all believed the party
noises were made by the ghosts (or astrals) of the "ladies of the eve-
ning" of long ago, and their male customers. I smiled politely, and
although L had no more logical an explanation for what I knew I was
hearing every few nights, I somehow still couldn't fully accept ghosts
as the cause.
Nor was I overly impressed to hear that all the former residents of
the house had shared my experience. After all, there was no real proof
of this, since none of them were around to attest to the truth of it, so it
could have been merely rumors, spread by the gullible.
However, it wasn't long until I began to have guests visit me,
from time to time, in my red brick "haunted" house — friends and
relatives from out of town. I wasalways careful never to mention the
"Old Homestead Party Ghosts." Yet, nearly all of my guests, with very
few exceptions, were wide-eyed at breakfast, following their first night
in the house, and could hardly wait to tell me about the "loud party"

-- 162 of 676 --

GURUS, GHOSTS, AND AVATARS * 99
my neighbors must have been having the night before. Their descrip-
tions matched what I had been hearing to the smallest detail. A cou-
ple of them were even able to identify one of the duets (which Fd
never been able to do) as "I'll Take You Home Again, Kathleen." All of
my guests believed firmly in the "ghost theory," once they'd been
told. I was the only holdout, but I was gradually weakening.
I have never, to this day, heard a baby cry in my house. But four
separate guests who spent a week or more with me over the years
could barely sleep at night because of being awakened every couple of
hours by the sound of a baby crying and sobbing loudly, sometimes
from the foot of the stairs, occasionally in the old-fashioned bathroom.
As I pondered all this, I remembered what I'd been taught about
sound. A sound, spoken or musical or otherwise, once sent into the
ethers, never ceases to exist. It just keeps rising on higher frequencies
(like the dog whistle humans cannot hear, but dogs can) — until the
average human ear can no longer detect the sounds. But they are still
out there . . . somewhere. A book called Breakthrough, published by
Richard Taplinger of Taplinger Publishing in New York, now out of
print, unfortunately (but possibly available through the used book-
store circuit), details experiments conducted by major universities,
using blank tapes and specific, complex methods, to "pull out of the
ethers" such long-ago-spoken words. They were successful, as the
book reports, in picking up many voices and considerable conversa-
tions, mostly in foreign languages, but could not, of course, pinpoint
the source or the time the words were originally spoken. The book
concludes by quoting these scientists as saying that "we now know
that we can record from the ethers the higher frequency sounds, mu-
sic, and words initiated long ago, but it will likely be many years until
we can do this selectively." Meaning that it will take much more exper-
imentation to be able to successfully retrieve the spoken words of
Abraham Lincoln's Gettysburg Address, even though they are indis-
putably still vibrating, as clear as ever, somewhere out there in the
ethers. Nevertheless, such magic is not only possible, it's probable

-- 163 of 676 --

100 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
under the influence of the curious, questing, unpredictable Uranus
(ruler of Aquarius).
.
I feel strongly that such a breakthrough is certain to occur during |
the Golden Age of Aquarius, but remember that the Aquarian Age will
be around for about 2,000 years. Until such a miracle occurs, we'll J
have to rely on those who possess an unusual degree of what is called
"clairaudience" (sensitivity of the inner ear) to pull long-ago sounds
from their hiding places. After pondering all this, I was finally con-
vinced of the reality of the sounds and voices. It all made sense. But I
attributed them to the "higher frequencies" — not to actual ghosts. I
still had much to learn.
The wild party and the crying baby were not the only "ghost"
hauntings" in my Carr Avenue, slipping-off-the-rime-track house.
One night, the first year I lived there, I held a party at my house for the
cast of the famous melodrama staged every summer at the charming
old Imperial Hotel in Cripple Creek. At the height of the party, while
the guests were wandering all over the house (it's rather like a mu-
seum, slightly musty smelling, filled with antiques of yesteryear) . . .
drinking punch and carrying on dozens of separate conversations, as
people do at such gatherings, a loud gasp and a stifled scream were
heard from the young couple seated on the old fainting couch in the
parlor.
Both of them were visibly frightened nearly out of their wits; their
eyes were opened wide, and they were staring at the corner of the >\
room beyond the old Ben Franklin wood stove. They sat there stiffly,
unmoving, staring hypnotically at the spot, not blinking, for several i
minutes, while everyone was asking insistently, "What is it ? What's
wrong ? What do you see ?" — since none of the rest of us could see
anything unusual in the corner.
The girl spoke first. "It's . . . it's a man, with straight black hair
and a black mustache, wearing a black, formal frock coat. He . . .
looks so sad." Then she spoke louder, clearly agitated, "Can't you see
,

-- 164 of 676 --

GURUS, GHOSTS, AND AVATARS * 101
him? He's standing right there. Just look!" She was trembling, and
obviously disturbed.
"Do you see it too, Paul ?" someone asked her husBand. He
didn't answer, just gulped hard a few times, and nodded his head up
and down. Eventually, he found his voice. "The guy is there. He's
standing there. Can't any of you see him ?" he asked,' agitated, glanc-
ing from one person to another. Again, everyone answered that they
could see nothing! Then someone suggested that Paul walk over to
the corner and touch the man ... see what he felt like. At this point,
his wife stood up abruptly from the couch, grabbed her husband's
arm, and said, "Paul, let's get out of here. Now. Please take me
home." She was so upset that there were tears in her eyes. Her hus-
band nodded, and they both walked out the door, ran down the steps,
got into their car and drove off, without even saying "Good-bye" or
"Good night" to the rest of the startled guests— or to me.
Ever since that incident — not always, but nearly always — when
I or anyone else happens to go to that corner of the parlor, perhaps to
take a book from the antique bookcase there, it is icy cold. Even
when the rest of the room is toasty warm, and a wood fire is blazing in
the old Ben Franklin stove. When I say icy cold, that's not an exag-
geration. It's cold enough to cause involuntary shivers, from both the
unexpectedly chilly air and the admittedly apprehensive and uneasy
feeling of knowing that this is where a "ghost" was seen. For the
longest time I didn't understand the coldness in that corner, not until 1
later learned about "higher vibratory frequencies" causing a change in
the air currents and a sudden drop in temperature . . . when an astral
entity of any kind is near.
I could explain the phenomenon of the sounds heard through
dairaudience, but the sight of a human, whether transparent or solid,
still troubled and mystified me. I wasn't to comprehend such phe-
nomena until several other "ghost sightings," as well as sounds, came
to my attention. Personally, I've never "seen" anything — or anyone.
My only, personal experience in Cripple Creek has been the equally

-- 165 of 676 --

102 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
trembling one of clairaudience — hearing sounds through the "inner
ear" from a higher frequency than the physical human ear can hear.
As for other "ghost" hauntings. . . .
There was Maggie. Or rather, there is Maggie, the live-in, mis-
chievous and lovable ghost (or astral) of the Sarsaparilla Ice Cream
Parlor on Bennett Avenue. Maggie has gained quite a bit of fame over
the years, among the town's residents, reporters from Colorado's ma-
jor newspapers — and thousands of tourists.
Because ghost sightings are growing more commonplace
nearly everyone has some sort of experience with some type of ghost
or astral — and because the explanation for such sightings is pan of
basic metaphysical laws — also because Maggie has been seen and
heard by so many people of unquestionable credibility and integrity,
it's important for you to learn about her in some detail. I know the
story of Maggie, of course, but I can't always recall the finer points of
her eccentric manifestations over the years.
And so, while writing this book, I called Ken and Katherine
Hartz, the owners of the building that houses the Sarsaparilla Ice
Cream Parlor, and asked them to write down as much about Maggie as
they could ... so I could help my readers comprehend her amazing
manifestations. Ken and Kathy obliged, by telling the story on a tape
cassette and sending it to me. I think it's best if I simply quote Kathy,
in her own words, rather than try to tell the story myself. Afterward,
we'll see what my Gurus offered by way of explanation. J
Please keep in mind that Kathy (a Virgo) is extremely critical of
the slightest distortion of the facts, the kind of person called "the soul
of honesty," and although she is more sensitive and intuitive than the
average person, she is still a Virgo, inclined to subject people and
things to her microscopic scrutiny, to suspect and question, not j
blindly accept. In fact, Katherine Hartz is the very last person anyone
would expect might "see ghosts" —*or even hear them. She is by
nature Practical with a capital "P."

-- 166 of 676 --

GURUS, GHOSTS, AND AVATARS * 103
From Kathehne (Kathy) Hartz — Cripple Creek, Colorado
As you know, Linda, the old Farley Lampton building we now
own in Cripple Creek, on the comer of Bennett Avenue and Third
Street, had been vacant for many years when we bought it and turned
the huge first floor into the Sarsaparilla Ice Cream Parlor and Gift
Shop. It was the first structure built after the big fire in 1895 that
burned down nearly the whole town. The land had already been
cleared, and the building materials were all piled in sidecars up on
Tenderfoot Mountain, so they began building the next morning.
Cripple Creekers recover from their tragedies pretty quickly. Instead
of sitting around crying and complaining about the fire that destroyed
everything, they just began to rebuild the town as fast as they could.
That's why all the brick buildings on Bennett Avenue have 1895
carved in them — the year of the fire — and the year of the rebuilding
of Cripple Creek.
Of course, our building is also the largest in Teller County. Ken
and I could never understand why nobody seemed to want it all those
years. But I'm glad they didn't, because otherwise we wouldn't have
been able to buy it, and I loved it from the first moment I saw it. It
was the most beautiful, beautiful building ! And so steeped in the
past. I remember that when you first moved here, and wanted to walk
down to the post office, you kept walking straight toward. the Sar-
saparilla, then came inside, confused, and said, "I don't know why I'm
here. I keep thinking it's the post office, but I know it isn't." You
must have lived here, Linda, back in the gold rush days, in another
incarnation, because the building actually was a post office for several
years between 1895 and 1910. Lots of newcomers here make the
same mistake, so maybe they lived here before too.
When we bought the building, a woman had a rock shop in it,
and she told us there were strange "energies" in the building. She said
everyone noticed it. But it didn't frighten me because she said these
"energies" were always heard or felt upstairs on the third floor, and
since I planned to live on the first floor while we were building the gift

-- 167 of 676 --

104 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
shop and the Sarsaparilla Ice Cream Parlor, there seemed no reason to
be concerned about "ghosts" on the third floor. Anyway, I found it to
be more intriguing than frightening.
Before we moved in, Charlie Frizzell, a well-known local artist,
and a group of his friends lived in the building. They told me that one
night they all decided to have a sort of seance on the third floor, in the
ballroom, and it simply scared them to pieces. They were really
frightened — 1 never did get the details of what happened — but they
said none of the girls would stay inside the building after that; they
slept in cars parked on the street. Charlie then asked me, "Aren't you
afraid to stay here alone when Ken is in Denver, Kathy ?" The ener-
gies in this building are real. Too many people have experienced
them, including myself, for them to be imaginary.
(Kathy is a very precise Virgo.) "Of course I'm not frightened," 1
told Charlie. "No way. Why should I be ? Nothing is going to harm
me. My Guardian Angel (she meant her Higher Self) is with me all the
time, and wouldn't allow anything bad to happen to me."
After a few days, Charlie and all his friends moved out, and 1 was
alone, living in the back of the first floor, while Ken was in Denver
taking care of our business and our home there, planning to come to
.
Cripple Creek on weekends to help supervise our remodeling. Noth-
ing happened for several days, and I decided that the woman who had
the rock shop there had an active imagination, that's all, and Charlie
and his friends were just trying to tease me — although he seemed so
sincere, and everyone knew him as a serious and earnest young artist.
The last day I was there alone — I was going to join Ken in
Denver the next day — I thought I would go up and check the second
and third floors, make sure all the windows were closed and every-
thing was as it should be before I left for Denver. So I climbed up to i
the second floor, and walked down the huge, long hallway.
I checked all the doors and windows, and when I got more than
halfway down the hallway, I heard the distinct sound of high-heeled <

-- 168 of 676 --

GURUS, GHOSTS, AND AVATARS * 105
shoes walking directly above me. At first I thought that maybe one of
the girls who had been staying in one of the rooms hadn't left yet, and
was upstairs on the third floor packing up her clothes. I knew I had to
check to make sure before I left and locked the building. So I went to
the stairway that leads up to the third floor, and was surprised to see
that there were two doors leading up to the third floor, each with glass
in them, and Charlie and his friends had wired the first door together
with coat hangers. No one could have gone through the first door,
then the second door to the third floor and left the first door so tightly
wired. The footsteps suddenly became louder, and sounded nearer
. . . but still above me, still coming from the third floor.
1 suppose my pulse raced a little faster, but I wasn't really fright-
ened, just a little uneasy perhaps — and determined to go up to the
third floor ballroom and take a look around. As I was trying to un-
twist the wire coat hangers to gain entrance, the footsteps stopped
abruptly. I glanced up, through the glass in the two doors, and saw a
woman standing there, as clear as could be, at the top of the stairs,
beyond the second door. This was the first time in 'my life I'd ever had
such an experience as "seeing a ghost," yet I wasn't afraid. I can't
explain why. I wasn't disbelieving either. I saw what I saw, as clear as
anything — the same as seeing a flesh-and-blood person — yet I knew
she was a ghost, not a real person. Don't ask me how I knew. I just
knew. (Kathy herself, as I've learned over the years, vibrates to a very
high frequency.)
She was just beautiful, Linda. Really beautiful ! She appeared to
be in her early twenties. Her hair was in Gibson girl-style, and she
had large, piercing brown eyes. She was slender, and was wearing a
white blouse with tiny tucks in the front and a sort of mandarin collar,
open at the neck . . . a brown cotton skirt, embroidered with small
rosebuds, that came just above her ankles . . . and she had on high-
heeled boots. These were evidently the high heels 1 had heard walk-
ing on the third floor.
I stood there staring at her, and she at me, for a few seconds, and

-- 169 of 676 --

106 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
then we shared a . . . well, I guess you would call it a mental telepathy
conversation. I could hear her voice, and yet, somehow, I knew I was
hearing it with my . . . inner ear ... is that what you call it ? Well, she
said "hello" . . . and a few other words I can't seem to remember, and
without thinking about it, I called her Maggie when I spoke to her. It
never occurred to me to call her anything else, and over the years she's
always answered to Maggie. It's interesting that each person who has
had contact with her, either through sight or sound, without any
knowledge of my calling her Maggie, has always instinctively thought
of her and spoken of her as "Meg" or "Margaret" — all names related
to Maggie. So . . . she was Maggie to me immediately.
I told her that she was welcome to stay in the building, that I was
happy to have her, but that she would have to observe certain rules.
I said aloud to her, "You may take care of the building and watch
over it if you wish, Maggie, and take care of us too — that would be
nice — but none of your spooky friends, no bad energies, none of that
can ever be here. Otherwise, you will just have to leave." Then I told
her that she was more than welcome to stay, and that if she had time,
she could even come and visit Ken and me in our home in Denver.
That was just about all the conversation — or communication — there
was. And as I said, it was more like a mental telepathy thing. When I
stopped speaking, after a few seconds, Maggie just sort of faded away
. . . gradually, not abruptly. I stood there for a while, thinking about
the strangeness of it, then finally went downstairs, fixed myself a cup
of coffee . . . and thought about it some more.
The next day 1 went home to Denver. When Ken and I returned
the following spring, everything in the building was just as we left it.
No signs of any mischief or destruction or anything. But then . . . after
a few weeks, things began to happen to let us know that Maggie was
around. Like the fragrance. When she's near, you can actually smell
a very soft scent, like a cologne ... or white roses. Nothing heavy or
overpowering . . . just a soft fragrance.
Over the years, Maggie has materialized for a couple of people,

-- 170 of 676 --

qyRUS, GHOSTS, AND AVATARS * 107
but never again for me. One of her manifestations was experienced by
a boy who worked for us in the ice cream parlor, and lived in the
building, as many of our young people do in the summer.
One night, we had a big party in the ballroom, with a band.
Everyone was dressed in long, old-fashioned ball gowns, and we
danced until quite late, because we were all enjoying ourselves so
much. Early the next morning, this kid went in to one of the upstairs
bathrooms to brush his teeth and wash his face before he came down-
stairs to the ice cream parlor to begin work. While he was scrubbing
his face, he sensed that someone was standing behind him. He
thought it was one of the other kids who worked and lived there, so he
turned, expecting to see one of the boys, and instead, he saw Maggie.
She was just kind of leaning over, trying to see what he was doing. It
frightened him so badly he didn't even stay for breakfast. He left that
morning, after telling us the story nervously, and never returned. He
seemed to be dreadfully upset by the experience. He told us that
Maggie's hair was done up in the same style I had seen her wearing,
but her clothes were different. She was wearing, he said, a long dress
made of cream-colored satin, with lace trimming ... as though (we*
thought) she had attended our party in the ballroom the night before.
Maggie is a benevolent ghost. You know, Linda, that she's never
really tried to frighten anyone — and you know that our building has
the most wonderful feeling about it. No one has ever felt any danger
or been unable to sleep or anything like that. There's always a very
warm, soft feeling when Maggie's around. It's as if she's part of the
family now. She loves us, and we love her. Lots of people have come
here and wanted to see her so they could take her picture. Some
reporters from the major papers have even brought their cameras and
slept up in the ballroom all night, hoping to see her and take a photo
of her for the papers. But no one has ever been able to take a photo-
graph of her. Maybe someday ... but not so far.
Someone asked us once if we wanted to get rid of Maggie, and
said they could bring a person who could exorcize her. I told them,

-- 171 of 676 --

108 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
"Don't be silly. This is her home. Why would we want to get rid of
her ? She's lovely and very nice. She can stay here as long as she
wants to stay." We've already told Maggie that if she wants to go on to
whatever dimension she may belong in, it's fine with us. We've even
told her how to look up into the sky, and see the light — and that, if
she wishes it, there will be someone to take her hand and lead her to
where she can be with others like herself, maybe even people she
knew. But she doesn't seem to want to do that. She seems contented
to stay right where she is.
Sometimes we think she has gone, after several months go by
•with no one sensing any sign of her, you know ? Then, when we're
least expecting it, there will be a cool breeze and the white roses fra-
grance again . . . softly ... or some other indication that she's still in
the building.
There was the time when we hired a new girl, who was going to
live in the building with us for the summer, while she worked in the
Safsaparilla. The room she chose was on the second floor, near the ;
stairway up to the third floor (or ballroom). While the girl was hang-
ing her clothes in the closet, she heard a voice say, very clearly, "Oh,
how nice ! You're going to stay with us ! Welcome !" To say she was \
startled or surprised would be stating it mildly.
The girl came downstairs, and said to the other waitresses, "I
don't think that's funny at all, what you did. You all know I'm afraid 1
of Maggie, and I just don't think tricks like that are amusing."
And the girls all told her that they had not done such a thing.
They had all been working, and they were a little annoyed that she
would think they were lying. They told her again, "We didn't say a
word. It was not us," and the girl finally said, "Well, all right, but \
don't really believe in Maggie. I think the whole thing is silly, but it
still scares me."
A day or so later, this girl was making coffee in the Sarsaparilla,
and telling the other waitresses how she didn't believe in Maggie, and

-- 172 of 676 --

GURUS, GHOSTS, AND AVATARS * 109
she still believed they were trying to frighen her, and all that. That
day we had about eight tables of tourists and Cripple Creekers, having
lunch — and there were about nine kids working in the kitchen. Did
I tell you the girl's name was Laura ? Well, anyway, Laura was talking
about how all this business about Maggie was just a bunch of stuff,
and i don't believe in her" and so on . . . and suddenly all the glasses
on the bar came floating through the air, and one hit Laura on the
back. The glasses all fell to the floor, but none of them broke. Every-
one in the ice cream parlor saw it happen — and Laura just stood
there, with her hands up in the air, saying, "I believe, I believe in you,
Maggie !" The customers were in a state of shock.
Needless to say, Laura moved out that evening, and also stopped
working for us. She used to drop in once in a while to have a hot
fudge sundae, but she never stayed long, and she always sat near the
front door. She wouldn't sit at any of the tables in the back, near the
ice cream bar. Lots of people in town witnessed that particular little
show of Maggie's. The tourists witnessed it, too, and some of them
come back now and then, in the summer, and remind us of it.
Another thing Maggie does a lot is call out your name when
you're not expecting it. She did that to you once, Linda, remember ?
Now, this is very audible, as you know. A person will hear his or her
name being called loudly, and turn around, and there's no one call-
ing. Then all of a sudden, they say, "Oh, it's only Maggie again," and
go on about their business. When it happens to me, I just say aloud,
"Maggie, be quiet. I'm working/and I don't have time for games right
now." Then she stops calling.
Another thing, Maggie sings. Her voice is lovely, a delicate so-
prano. She sings Irish arias and ditties and funny little songs, and
several people, including Ken and myself, have heard her singing and
dancing with her high-heeled boots in the ballroom, doing the polka.
Maggie also used to play the concertina. I didn't know what a
concertina was at first, but I soon found out. Other people in the

-- 173 of 676 --

110 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
building heard it too. The first four or five years after we moved in,
she really played that little instrument, quite loudly sometimes — and
gently at other times. But no one has heard her playing in recent I he
years.
The main thing is that Maggie's presence is a comforting thing.
Everyone says there's something so warm and nice about just sitting in
the Sarsaparilla . . . just sitting there makes them feel good and happy
somehow. You've said that many times yourself, Linda. I know what
they mean, because Ken and I feel it too. Sometimes, when I'm feeling
down in the dumps and blue or depressed . . . sometimes just worn
out from all the work that needs to be done, especially during the busy
season ... or when I'm really worried about something . . . Maggie will
come near . . . I'll smell that soft, soft cologne or white roses fragrance,
and a warm feeling comes over me. I can telepathically hear her say-
ing to me, "It's all right, Katherine. I'll give you strength. I'm here,
and you don't have to worry. I'll take care of you." It gives me a
distinct warm and soft and comfortable feeling when I'm alone.
Somehow, you just know that whoever or whatever Maggie is,
she was never a bad person. She had to be — or has to be ? — one of
the nicest people who ever lived — or haunted — in Cripple Creek.
At first, we did some investigation, but we never learned anything
helpful. We asked Fergie Ferguson, who used to have a business in
the building years ago, and he told us that he'd never heard of a mur-
der or a tragedy or anything like that connected with a young woman.
We did find out that there was a funeral parlor there at one time,
called the Farley Lampton Funeral Home. But that's all we were ever
able to discover, and none of it seemed to explain Maggie's presence.
I'll close by reminding you that lots of people who have spent the |
night in our building have heard a baby crying loudly — like the one
people hear at your house, Linda. I've never heard it myself, but other J
people have, and it disturbs them, because it's such a sad and pitiful j
kind of crying. We still wonder if maybe the baby belongs — or j
belonged — to Maggie, but, of course, we don't know . . . and I guess

-- 174 of 676 --

GURUS, GHOSTS, AND AVATARS * 111
we never will Every summer we wonder what Maggie will do this
year at the Sarsaparilla. Now a new summer is coming up, and we
hope shell be back. We miss her so much when she goes away for a
while. So does everyone else.
And that's the story of Maggie, told by her loyal friend, Katherine
Hartz. By the way, Kathy's husband, Kenneth, is a businessman who
also teaches astrology courses. His Sun Sign is Libra, and I believe
he's still trying to make up his mind about Maggie ! He knows per-
fectly well that she does exist, in some form, but he still hasn't bal-
anced his Libra Scales regarding exactly where she came from . . . and
why she's there.
******
As I've pointed out, it wasn't until I later learned about vibratory
frequencies (angstrom units per second) from one of my mountain
retreat Gurus that I finally comprehended that ghosts are indeed real,
not imaginary.
First, it may help to ponder the definition of angstrom units. An
i
angstrom unit is one hundred-millionth of a centimeter, a unit used in
1
measuring the length of light waves.
Each person vibrates to a completely individual electromagnetic
frequency of angstrom units (light waves) per second. When that
frequency is raised or increased, the physical body is not visible to
< another person's physical vision. When the frequency is lowered or
decreased, the physical body again becomes visible to the physical eye.
The way I was able to comprehend it was through the analogy of
an electric fan. When the electricity is off, and you look at the fan,
what do you see ? You see a circle. Portions of the circle (the blades of
the fan) are opaque (solid) and you cannot see through them: Other
portions of the circle (the spaces between the blades) you can see
'
straight through to the other side — or to whatever is behind the fan.

-- 175 of 676 --

112 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
So . . . part of the circle is visible, part is invisible. The blades are |
dense matter — the spaces in between the blades are — just air.
Now, when you turn on the fan at the Low Speed, it begins to i
spin at a certain frequency, and for a time, the circle appears to be
dense and solid. You can't see through it at any point. Then, when
you press the High Speed, the frequency increases and the circle
changes from an apparently solid mass to a full circle of air, with no
dense matter obstruction, and you can see straight through the entire
circle. It may seem to be an optical illusion,. but it's not. It's reality.
What is the difference between the solid circle of the fan you cannot
see through — and the empty circle you can see through ax all
points ? The rate of speed at which the blades are spinning. Therefore,
to the vision of the physical eye, the difference between the visible and
the invisible is — the speed at which the object seen — or unseen —
is vibrating.
I trust that makes it easier for you to understand the visible and |
invisible worlds (objects and people). It did for me.
A person in astral form, whether recently or long dead — or
simply sleeping, and temporarily out of body — is "spinning" so fast,
vibrating at such an increased rate of light waves or angstrom units per j
second, the average person in the physical world cannot see him ofi
her with physical vision; therefore, the astral one is invisible.
Sometimes, a man or woman who is ultrasensitive, uncon- '
sciously raises his or her rate of frequency for a few moments, and canUj
then see with physical vision forms that remain invisible to others who j
are not so finely tuned. Consequently, some people can — on occa-
sion, for brief periods, usually only seconds — "see a ghost." The
astral form thus seen is not always that of a "dead person," but is4
nearly always believed to be. In the case of Maggie, the astral is un- -J
doubtedly that of a woman who died long ago, but in other cases of
|
"seeing ghosts," the astral could just as well be that of someone — |
from anywhere — who happens to be asleep at the time, and whose I

-- 176 of 676 --

GURUS, GHOSTS, AND AVATARS * 113
astral body is wandering around — an extraterrestrial being (a space
person) or a Master, a Guru, or an Avatar. With the sleeping person,
the incident is usually purely accidental, caused by the sensitivity of
the viewer, not by the sleeper's astral.
However, regarding the latter Avatars, they are all capable of con-
sciously and deliberately either raising (increasing) or lowering (de-
creasing) the frequency vibration of their bodies whenever they
choose, to become invisible — or visible — to those who are less
enlightened, and who are therefore vibrating at a lower rate of ang-
strom units per second. This vibratory ability was demonstrated to
me by one of the "teachers" who came to instruct me in Colorado, and
evidently also by Nahtan on that spooky New Year's Day at the Holly-
wood Roosevelt Hotel in Suite 1217 — now renumbered to Suite
122 1 . (See Preface). The initial shock of seeing such a demonstration
with your own eyes, sans any kind of "hallucinatory drugs," with a
perfectly clear mind, is frightening, awesome, mind-boggling, and bi-
zarre beyond description. But after more than one demonstration of
it, the whole thing becomes rather natural, like watching an electric
fan. I'm aware that some of you may not believe what I've related in
this paragraph, but I can't allow myself to be concerned about that. I
have a pretty heavy and deep-rooted "thing" about honesty, and I
don't make up stories. Whether you accept it or reject it, I wanted to
tell you that such appearances and disappearances are quite real, and
they do happen. Those who have observed such "phenomena" feel
much the same way Abraham Lincoln might have felt if someone had
handed him an odd-shaped piece of hard plastic, told him to hold it to
his ear, and he heard Mary Todd speaking to him from Virginia — or
showed him a square box, then told him to press a button and he
could actually see General Lee addressing his troops in the South.
Everything strange and mysterious is relative.
As we are now aware, hearing sounds on a higher frequency,
such as the wild party in my "haunted" Cripple Creek house, is called
clairaudience. Seeing an astral which is vibrating at a higher frequency
is called clairvoyance. Some people possess clairaudience, some pos-

-- 177 of 676 --

114 IV LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS.
sess clairvoyance, and some possess both gifts. Then there are those
"appearances or disappearances" which occur because they are delib-
erately willed by a Master, Avatar, or Guru who can control his or her
own vibratory frequency to become visible or invisible even to those
who do not possess the gift of clairvoyance — or to utter words or
sounds which can be heard even by those who do not possess
clairaudience.
Therefore, both "Jiearing" and "seeing" a ghost is possible, some-
times separately, sometimes simultaneously, through a combination of
clairaudience and clairvoyance.
Can such entities move objects, manipulate matter ? Yes, they
can. Astral entities of any of the several kind I've already described are
not simply floating etheric "impressions" or images. They are con-
trolled by the astral's Overself (Spirit or Higher Self) and the still exist-
ing and functioning mind and soul, none of the three of which die or
cease to exist or operate after the death of the flesh body, upon which,
in life, the astral is superimposed, matching the physical body in ap-
pearance exacdy. And the mind, soul, and Overself are definitely ca-
pable of manipulating matter, as they are equally capable of raising
and lowering the vibratory frequency of the astral of the dead or sleep-
ing flesh body.
If the ventriloquist's dummy is broken or discarded, can the ven- i
triloquist still manipulate matter, speak, move a cup or whatever "he"
(it — they) could do while controlling the discarded puppet's
"strings" ? Of course. Because it was never the puppet who accom-
plished the speaking or any other action. It was the ventriloquist (or
puppeteer) who was responsible all the time — and the ventriloquist
or puppeteer (choose your analogy) was not discarded when the pup-
pet (body) was discarded. Until the puppeteer or ventriloquist
chooses a new puppet to control and guide, he or she has a certain
amount of free time, so to speak. However, relatively few puppeteers
choose haunting as an occupation between incarnations. There are '
more productive and enlightening, not to mention interesting, things

-- 178 of 676 --

GURUS, GHOSTS, AND AVATARS * 115
to do in other dimensions. One of the situations causing some,
though not all, hauntings is that the still existing mind and soul are
I
magnetized to a location where intense emotion was experienced
I while the flesh body was existing. And the Overself (Spirit or Higher
i Self) must go along, even though often reluctantly. Why ? Free Will.
Does this sound strange to you — much like the mailroom per-
i
son telling the President of General Motors what to do, with the latter
meekly following along, just to be there if needed ? Well, here's a
surprise. That's exactly the way it is.
Your Overself (or Spirit — or the Angel of your Higher SelO is
always there . . . never separated from your mind and soul (which are,
by the way, outside, the body) . . . either in life or in death. Always
there, lovingly ready to guide and help you over the rocks when things
get rough, but unable (because of the gift of Free Will) to force wis-
dom or power upon you. This "Guardian Angel" — the real you . . .
the you-of-you . . . possesses all wisdom, all truth, all innocence, and
all power. But He or She cannot initiate effective communication.
You must do so (and here the term "you" means your own mind [oper-
ating through the computer brain] and your own soul [operating
through the Third Eye]). You must initiate and establish communica-
tion. You must, with your Free Will, choose and decide to tune in to
your Higher Self and receive, thereby, all the power which has always
been your birthright, since your first incarnation into a flesh body . . .
and all through your subsequent incarnations, including, of course,
the present one. One might say it's eternally true that "it's your move"
in the spiritual game of chess.
All of this may be difficult for you to comprehend, but it may
become more clear and understandable through drawings illustrating
this "holy trinity" of the you-of-you. On the next page is just one quick
sketch to help your imaging.
Notice the double pyramid formed by the connection between
the holy trinity. This is a most important point, as you will learn in

-- 179 of 676 --

116 LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
^/ XT'
Oversclf
flesh body
Third Eye
astral
Chapter 7, Forgotten Melodies. Notice also that the two pyramids thus
formed are base to base, not top to top.
A word here, before we go on, relating to the mind and the soul.
Let's use capitals to make it more clear. The Mind — of both men and
women — is Masculine.. It operates through the Masculine Brain —
in both men and women.
The Soul — of both men and women — is Feminine. It operates
through the Feminine Third Eye — in both men and women. This is
why, as I've mentioned elsewhere in other chapters, there is a little
man in every woman and a little woman in every man; also why it's
perfectly natural and desirable for a man to show compassion, to
weep, to enjoy poetry, and possess other sensitive qualities, and he

-- 180 of 676 --

GURUS, GHOSTS, AND AVATARS- * 117
shouldn't be considered "effeminate" because of this feminine side of
his nature. Jesus wept.
Yet, small boys in our society are continually told that "men don't
cry. Men don't embrace. Be a little man ..." and so forth.
Conversely, it's perfectly natural and desirable for a woman to
show courage and independence, to seek a career or a profession
where her talents and abilities may be used, and she shouldn't be
considered "tough, unfeminine, or pushy" because of this masculine
I side of her nature.
Yet, small girls in our society are continually commanded to "be a
Lady. Keep your opinions to yourself. Don't be a tomboy" . . . and so
on.
The core of all the problems on this Earth today is that the Mas-
culine Mind, operating through the Masculine Brain, has allowed
technology to surpass spiritual wisdom at the price of threatened
annihilation.
The appearance of women's liberation is a healthy sign that our
Creators are attempting to seed into the minds of all Earthlings that it's
time the Feminine Soul (in both men and women) — operating
through the Feminine Third Eye — is equally recognized. The
Queen, in other words, must sit on her throne beside the King if there
is ever to be Peace in the Kingdom. Kingdom. Named after him,
notice. Or if the will of our Creators is to "be done, on Earth, as it is in
Heaven."
The tragic thing is that some women, who yearn (justifiably) to
be free, believe that the way to freedom is to become a man, defeating
the whole holy purpose, and planting the seeds for a matriarch so-
ciety, which, I assure you, would be equally as detrimental to human
happiness as the patriarch society we've suffered under for so long.
The key is a wrong interpretation of the word "equal." It must be
realized that men and women are not equal. They are, they must be,

-- 181 of 676 --

118 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
and they always shall be — different. The ideal is not that they be-
come a Unisex, but that they remain separate, with equal rights and
equal powers.
That's the flaw in the thinking of the feminine gender today. The
flaw in the thinking of the male gender can be described by an illustra-
tion given in, I believe, the Aries-Leo section of Love Signs. The Leo
(King) says to the Aries (Queen) in angry frustration: "How can I make
you my equal until you first recognize that I'm your superior ?" That
macho statement needs no interpretation. It speaks for itself, and it
symbolizes the angry frustration of the male in today's society.
What does all this have to do with the subject matter of this
chapter ? Everything. The title is Gurus, Ghosts, and Avatars, and
each Guru or Avatar who appeared during my mountain retreat in
Colorado to teach lessons "when the student was ready" took great
pains to explain that the masculine-feminine principal, contained in
the Yin and Yang of art, electricity, science, and human union is the
prismed crystal through which the reflected rainbow spectrum of all
truths is seen.
******
The analogy of the President of General Motors reminds me of
what I've been instructed — and you may find interesting — concern-
ing one's personal Guru "when the student is ready." You'll remember
that in the Introduction to this book, I counseled you to seek your
own personal Guru when you are ready, who will then teach you how
to finally communicate with the most reliable Guru of all — your own
Higher Self.
After a while, when perhaps more than one "teacher" has man-
ifested, then disappeared and left you alone to try your new "wings,"
when you are ready to become an Initiate and be completely illumi-
nated, you are given two Gurus. Not always simultaneously, but
never very far apart in time sequence. One of these is kind, patient,

-- 182 of 676 --

GURUS, GHOSTS, AND AVATARS • 119
gentle, mild, and nonintrusive — peaceful and quiet, almost to the
point of timidity. His responsibility, for whatever period of time he's
required to spend with you, is to demonstrate only by. example. He
may not tell you anything or demand anything. He is only to quietly
and continually demonstrate by his own behavior what you should
imitate. He may not correct you, "scold" you, or point out your weak-
nesses. When he is gone, your heart will nearly break with your be-
lated understanding of his mission — but you will have learned much,
and you'll begin to walk in his footsteps.
The other one will anger you, frustrate you, and annoy you, but
he will demand — and receive — your awed respect. Respect for his
intellect, his seemingly endless esoteric knowledge, and his powers.
He is like the trainer who must prepare the dog (not a derogatory
example) for "best of show." His responsibility is to severely disci-
pline, test your faith in him — and in yourself — in a number of
ways. You will rebel until you submit. When he leaves, you will have
learned the lesson of humility, the most necessary requirement for
final initiation. Then he will appear again, when you least expect it, to
lead you the rest of the way into enlightenment, no longer stern and
deceptive (deception was only a test of your faith) — with twinkling
eyes and a demeanor that, demonstrates the equality beween you.
Finally, your "kind Guru" will manifest again, and you will be so
inexpressibly happy to see him, to at last understand the mission of
both of them, that "your cup will runneth over."
The divine plan is for each person to reach the point of evolve-
ment needed for his or her own personal Avatars to appear. And their
mission, as I've already explained, is to teach you to reach at-onement
with the ultimate "Guru" — your own Higher Self.
This is why the spread of what is called both trans-channeling
and trance-channeling (channeling through another person, who is in
trance) can be misleading, and should be approached with much cau-
tion. I wish I could recall who said it, because it's so very appropriate,

-- 183 of 676 --

120 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
but someone observed that receiving spiritual counsel in this way is
like dialing a series of numbers at random on an astral telephone, and
having no way to verify who's going to answer the call. Seeking
knowledge through a medium can, on rare occasions, be valid and
helpful, as so many learned through Edgar Cayce. But Cayce and
Jesus of Nazareth both faced the frustration of those they tried to help
and teach by insisting upon relying on the teacher for everything,
ignoring the most important lesson being taught, expressed in the
Nazarene's words: "All things which I have done, you can do also.
Go, thou, and do likewise — and more." You can expect to read those
words several times in this book. They deserve much repeating.
"Spirit Guides" from other levels of awareness are — not always,
but too often — misleading, and sometimes even diabolical, leading
you in the opposite direction from the top of the mountain you're
longing to reach.
The best known member of The Great Brotherhood of Elders, to
which all Gurus and Avatars belong," is the Adept called the Comte de
St.. Germain, (the "St." doesn't stand for the Catholic term of "saint,"
but is part of a French surname.) William Shakespeare, according to j
. all of the world's most respected metaphysicians, was one of the sev-
eral identities of St. Germain, who was also, it is said, Sir Isaac Newton i
and Sir Francis Bacon. * The latter names periodically appear in liter-
ary studies of Shakespeare's works by scholars, who theorize that one
or the other of them was the actual author of the Bard's plays. Thc«:
Count of St. Germain was also a friend of General Lafayette's, who, J
when our founding fathers were quarreling and disputing certain!
points of our Declaration of Independence, stood up in the back of the i
room and made such an impassioned speech about Freedom thatj
when he was finished, they all grabbed their quill pens and signed. St j
Germain is also rumored to have been the subject of RembrandlM
mysterious painting, called the "Polish Rider." Further, he was the j
*The puzzle of how one Avatar could assume several identities during the same J
time period is explained in Chapter 9.

-- 184 of 676 --

GURUS, GHOSTS, AND AVATARS * 121
one, as history records, who warned Marie Antoinette of the coming
French Revolution, but she didn't heed his warning, and thus lost her
head to the guillotine. As did, also, of course, her husband, Louis XIV,
and a number of other members of the royal family. Their small son,
"the lost Dauphin," was smuggled out of the palace in a laundry bas-
ket, and the several books written about what is alleged to have hap-
pened to him fascinated me in high school history class.
Historians of the day have recorded that St. Germain was also the
mysterious alchemist who taught cell regeneration to several ladies of
the French court, causing young men of nineteen and twenty to fight
duels for their romantic favors when these noblewomen were chrono-
logically eighty to ninety years old. I trust they were all spiritually
enlightened, or they could not have mastered these lessons of re-
generation from "the Master."
Of all the St. Germain identities, the one I'm fondest of is Isaac
Newton, because, when he was debating the validity of astrology with
Edmund Halley of Halley's comet fame, and Halley was ridiculing this
art and science, Newton won the argument by stating simply — and
firmly: "Sir, I have studied the matter. You have not." And with that,
he clicked his heels, bowed sharply — and left.
It's said that St. Germain is still among us today, using a new
identity . . . and I have reason not to doubt it
******
There are Avatars . . . and there are Avatars. Some possess their
own flesh bodies (a number of these many centuries old, by Earth
Time, as will be explained in Chapter 9 ) . . . others take over the body
of an Earthling, whose mind and soul make a perfect channel, and
with the consent of that body's Overself (Spirit or Higher SelQ uses
this person as a channel for enlightenment of the world, at certain
times in Earth's history when some vital discovery qt invention is

-- 185 of 676 --

122 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
. needed for the continued evolvement of the world. This is called
"overshadowing."
All the great composers were thus "overshadowed" in channeling
the Music of the Masters, as they themselves believed ... chorded
fragments of the "Music of the Spheres" ... to the degree that Earth-
lings were ready to receive these harmonic frequencies. Humans to-
day would be in even worse shape than they are had it not been for the
great symphonies which have touched the souls and moved the hearts
of millions.
One of these Avatars indisputably used as a channel was Yugosla-
vian Nikola Tesla. Many people even quite seriously believe that Tesla
was an extraterrestrial. He's pan of the haunted setting of Cripple
Creek, where I was, myself, channeled with the star signs in this
book. And so, this is yet another experience in the mountains I
should share with you. This one began before I even walked into my
haunted house for the first time ... on my first trip up the winding
road from Colorado Springs to the miniature Tibet or Shangri-la called
Cripple Creek.
As with Kathy Hartz and Maggie, I believe the story would best
be told in the words of a real estate agent, Finbar O'Malley, who drove-
me up into the mountains upon my arrival because Leland Feitz, thej
owner-landlord of the house I had rented, was out of town at the
time. Here is our conversation on that star-crossed day, as best I can^i
recall it. It was my first knowledge of Nikola Tesla. . . and includes*?
another strange and mysterious incident many of you have experi-
enced yourself.
******
111 close my eyes for a moment and imagine myself in the car
with Finbar, then write out our conversation for you, from memory.
We passed Woodland Park, after leaving Colorado Springs, then when
we reached a tiny place called Divide, we turned, and headed down a •

-- 186 of 676 --

GJURUS, GHOSTS, AND AVATARS * 123
long stretch of road lined with spruce and aspen. Well, not exactly
"down" the road ... we were gradually but very surely driving in the
direction of another 5,000 feet or so higher than the altitude of the
Springs. Can you picture us in the car ?
"Cripple Creek," Finbar informed me, "is almost two miles high,
straight up toward the sky. On some days there, the clouds hang
down so low you can actually reach up and touch them — if you jump
a little. Where you're going to be staying is ten thousand feet above
sea level."
"Just the right altitude for miracles," I replied spontaneously,
then wished I hadn't, because I could see my remark had aroused the
curiosity of this man I hardly knew, and had no desire to know bet-
ter. No reflection on Finbar O'Malley as he is an agreeable and likea-
ble sort of chap. But it was, after all, the me-of-me 1 had traveled to
"God's Country" to become better acquainted with, not more strang-
ers. There are enough of those in New York.
"What kind of miracle were you expecting to happen up here?"
he asked, curious, yet" rather guardedly, I thought.
"Oh, just any old kind I might find buried somewhere near a
Bristlecone pine tree, unnoticed for centuries or longer. I'm not fussy
about miracles." I needed a subject-changer. The weather.
"Someone told me the sky bursts open frequently in the moun-
tains with violent electrical storms. Is that true?" It worked.
"Oh, maybe once a month or so, sometimes more often, espe-
cially in the summer. It depends on the atmospheric conditions. This
is only the second week of April, so you'll probably see quite a few of
them before fall. Now and then there's an electrical storm in the mid-
dle of winter up here. While it's snowing. Damnedest thing. Gives
you an eerie feeling. Folks don't ordinarily associate the thunder and
lightning of an electrical storm with snow. But it happens up here in
the mountains. They say that's why Nikola Tesla came up here to

-- 187 of 676 --

124 - * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
conduct his experiments. Because of the electrical storms at ten thou-
sand feet . . . and' higher. Pike's Peak, where they say he pulled off
some of his light shows, is closer to fourteen thousand feet."
Nikola Tesla. I'd noticed the name on some kind of commem- i
orative plaque in the park near the Colorado Springs airport as we
drove by and stopped for a minute or so for a stalled car ahead of us.
Curious, I turned to Finbar, and asked, "Who was he ?"
"Some kind of a scientist or inventor. FqIIcs claim he was a ge-
nius. I even heard somebody say once that he believed Tesla was a
Space Man, like Spock and those characters on TV in Star Trek"
Finbar chuckled at the very idea of anything so far out, then
continued.
"He sure had a lot of peculiar habits. Real eccentric, he was.
Somethin' funny about his inner ear, they say — whatever that is.
Thing is, his ears were so sensitive, he could even hear a fly light on a
table, and it sounded to him like an explosion. They say he could I
hear a clock ticking two or three rooms away. He was in pain a lot of I
the time because of the sensitive ears, you know ? Then there were-)
the visions."
"Visions ?" I asked, my curiosity growing.
"Yep. He invented all kinds of electrical devices. Drew compli-
cated blueprints for electric- and solar-powered cars and planes, stuff:
like that no one had ever even thought about. But he didn't draw the
blueprints for his electric cars and spacecraft and planes and so on the
way most of those guys do. He claimed that he had visions — that
each time he had one of these visions, the whole thing just popped up
in his mind like it was a screen or something. And his 'mental pic-
tures,' as he called 'em, were complete right down to the smallest
detail. Weird." Finbar shook his head.
"He was a psychic or a mystic or whatever it's called, they claim.
He could sort of see things before they happened. Like the time lots]

-- 188 of 676 --

GURUS, GHOSTS, AND AVATARS * 125
of folks heard him tell a friend not to take a certain train. The friend
listened to Tesla, and didn't get on. A few hours later the train ran off
the track and killed everybody on board."
Again, Finbar shook his head in a gesture of half disbelief and
half wonderment. Then he went on with his oddly familiar disserta-
tion. Why familiar to me ? Maybe I already knew it on a higher
level ? Has that ever happened to you ? I mean, when you hear
something for the first time, something you Ve never heard before, yet
you sense that you already know it before the person finishes telling
you ?
"Tesla's the one who discovered AC — or alternating current, not
long after Tom Edison discovered DC — direct current, you know.
Edison didn't like it much, 1 guess. Took out big ads in the New York
newspapers warning everybody that their houses might catch fire and
burn down if they used Tesla 's alternating current. Old Tom claimed
it was unsafe and a dangerous hazard, whether it was used outdoors or
indoors. Tesla was working for Edison for a while, but that caused a
split between them. Finally, George Westinghouse and J. P. Morgan
backed Tesla's crazy ideas, and Tesla came out here to Colorado
Springs to build a laboratory for his experiments. Later, he proved his
AC current was safe. That's all they use in homes today, of course."
I waited for Finbar to continue, fascinated ... yet troubled by the
sense of "this has happened before" ... a kind of deja vu flash.
"They say Tesla was all upset when they split the atom. He said
.
it would bring on nuclear power, which could end the world. He
kept trying to convince J. P. Morgan and his money backers that the
world would run out of energy in the near future, and that nuclear
energy would destroy it — but that his method was safe and pure. He
said it would give everybody all the energy they needed without pol-
luting the air, which he predicted in the early 1900s would be a big
problem before the end of the century. He was right. Too bad no-
body listened. Sure is a big problem. Especially in Denver now. Just
like Los Angeles and New York, maybe worse."

-- 189 of 676 --

126 tV LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
Finbar was quiet for a moment, then went on. "Tesla was a
strange one, for a fact. Looked a lot like Howard Hughes. Acted a lot
like him too. Kinda brooding and moody. He wouldn't shake hands
with anybody. Something about mixing up auras, but I'm not real
sure what an aura is. * They say Tesla climbed Pikes Peak alone more
than once. That's it, over there to the left, the one with all the snow
on it. I guess he wanted to try some of his crazy experiments with
lightning. Climbed right up to the top, he did, in the middle of the
worst storms you can imagine, according to what they tell around
here. He used to pull in lightning with the tower he built, with J. P.
Morgan's money, down in the Springs. Then, after a storm, he'd run
out with his helpers and screw light bulbs right into the ground.
They'd light up, just as if they'd been screwed into a lamp that was
plugged in an electric outlet. Just screwing them into the dirt. Isn't
that wild ?" Finbar once more shook his head in a gesture of com-
bined respect and disbelief. "Tesla said it had something to do with
the Earth's magnetic field."
. . . then it happened
Suddenly, without warning, we were enveloped in a velvetlike
cloud of heavy silence, that grew ... and grew . . . seeming to wrap
itself around the car like a smothering blanket. Even the hum of the
car's engine sounded muffled . . . somehow distant, far away.
For a measureless time the silence remained, until it became un-
comfortable. Finbar said nothing, his eyes fixed, staring ahead, un-
blinking. I tried, to think of something to say to break the silence
between us, and found I could not.
Ripping into the silence, a yellow streak of lightning snaked
across the sky, accompanied by a crash of thunder that seemed to split'
open a mass of clouds overhead. The sun turned dark for one fright-
ening instant, then shone forth again, as bright as before. . No rain.
See Chapter '6, Forgotten Rainbows.

-- 190 of 676 --

GURUS, GHOSTS, AND AVATARS * 127
Just a warning flash, the kind I'd heard sometimes comes as a sign that
a storm is approaching in this high altitude. Still there was silence. I
wanted to ask Finbar about the sudden thunderclap and bolt of light-
ning that seemed so disconnected with reality, appearing and disap-
pearing as swiftly as they did. But I simply could not speak. Nor
could he.
After a while ... at last I found my voice. "Is it twenty minutes
until the hour — or twenty minutes after ?" I asked.
The car swerved slightly as Finbar quickly glanced at the watch
on his left wrist, then swallowed hard before he replied.
"It's twenty minutes till three." He looked at his watch again.
"Exactly twenty minutes till three," he repeated in a low voice. "Right
on the second. How . . . did you . . .
?"
Then I did that dumb thing I do sometimes, even though I'm not
an Aquarian. I forgot Finbar's name. That kind of instant amnesia
everyone gets occasionally with people they've only just met (except
for Aquarians, who do it all the time !). I'm sure it's happened to you
too. And you're embarrassed to ask, so you take a chance that you're
right. When you're wrong, it's . . . well, you wish the ground would
open up and swallow you, right ? I thought I remembered his name.
I was wrong.
I laughed. "I'm surprised to hear an Irishman ask how I knew
the exact time, Michael," I said. "I thought all Gaelic people knew
about the 'sudden silence' superstition. In fact, my own Irish grand-
mother, whose parents were born in County Cork, is the first one who
told me about it."
Still the man beside me did not relax. If anything, he was even
more tense, and his voice remained very low.
"Told you . . . about what ?"
"About the strange thing that sometimes happens when two or

-- 191 of 676 --

128 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
more people are talking together. All of a sudden there's a dead si-
lence, and no one seems able to break it for the longest time, no matter
how hard they try. It's as though everyone's lips were sealed, or
everyone had somehow been mesmerized into a trance. After the si-
lence gets to be downright embarrassing, someone finally manages to
speak, and break it. And usually, no one even comments on it aloud.
Everyone just goes right on talking about whatever it was they were
talking about before it . . . happened."
Finbar said nothing, but his sunburned, freckled hand tightened
on the steering wheel. I felt a flush rise to my cheeks. Had he de-
cided I was pixilated, the Gaelic term for not having it all together ? I
finished my story nervously.
"My grandmother (I called her my elf-mother) told me that when
the sudden-silence thing occurs, it's almost always — at least about
ninety-five percent of the time — either twenty minutes till — or
twenty minutes after the hour. Any hour. I've tested it most of my
life, since I was about fourteen years old, every time an unbreakable
silence falls when I'm talking with another person ... or a group ol
people. And she was right. Almost every time, that's where the clock)
hands point. Twenty till ... or twenty after . . , whatever hour.
"There have been only a few times over the years, maybe three,
that it hasn't worked. Day or night. When you ask the person or
people you're with when it happens if it's twenty till or twenty after;
and you're not wearing a watch yourself, and there's no clock visible^
anywhere, they're always shocked," I finished lamely. "Like you are|
right now."
Finbar remained silent, although he nodded, with a faint, polite^
smile.
"I've always wondered why it happened," I went on, trying to fill
what was now a different and definitely uneasy kind of silence in the

-- 192 of 676 --

GURUS, GHOSTS, AND AVATARS * 129
car. "I mean, I've tried the experiment so many times, and observed
how amazingly it works, I'm sure there must be a reason for it. Maybe
involved in the laws of physics. Or metaphysics. It obviously has
something to do with the fourth dimension of time. I'm very much
interested in numerology, but IVe never found a solution to it in any
numerology books I've read. I'm going to study it more up here this
summer, maybe the Kabala too. I know I'm going to figure out the
answer someday. Maybe in the mountains I'll dream the answer.
Little mysteries like that intrigue me, and I can't rest until I've solved
them."
Finbar cleared his throat, then spoke as if he hadn't paid any
attention to a word I'd been saying.
"My name,"' he said, "is Michael." He paused. "Michael Finbar
CMalley. You had no way of knowing that. And . . . you knew the
exact time, too, although you're not wearing a .... uh ... I guess
you've more or less explained how you knew ... but ... are you what
they call psychic ?"
Once more the conversation had taken a wrong turn. I desper-
ately reached for another subject-changer. As Finbar shifted gears, I
shifted subjects, perhaps not too smoothly.
"No, I'm not psychic. That is, no more than everyone could be
by just opening up the mind and allowing things to channel through.
It's simply a matter of tuning in to a higher level of awareness. Any-
way, the name was probably just a coincidence. I didn't realize I
called you Michael till you brought it up."
A double lie. I had realized it. And nothing on this planet is a
coincidence. Or on any other planet. Or in any Solar System or
Universe. However major or microscopic, every event is linked to an
unguessed, invisible, interlocked cosmic pattern. But this was neither
the time nor the place to engage in the untangling of such complex-
ities. I tried to sound cheerful and reassuring as I fumbled into an
abrupt change of subject.

-- 193 of 676 --

130 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
"Michael is a common name. Lots of people are named
Michael." Then the briefest pause. "Where did Nikola Tesla live ?"
"Mostly in Colorado Springs. Now and then, though, he stayed
in Cripple Greek, when he was doing some things on Mount Pisgah or
Tenderfoot . . . and Pikes Peak. But nobody seems to know for certain
exactly where. Probably because he came and went for only a few
days at a time, I suppose, when the storms were brewing."
Finbar's apprehension seemed to have returned momentarily, as
he murmured, "It's funny you should ask."
"Why is it funny ?"
"Well, maybe not funny. 1 guess the word is . . . strange."
"All right, then, why strange ?"
"Because you anticipated something I was about to tell you . .
and because of the fact that ..." He hesitated. I remained silent,
waiting. It seemed the wisest thing to do.
"Well, there's a strong rumor that he sometimes stayed in a two-
story red brick house across from the school and gymnasium, between
Third and Fourth Streets. The house was built in the late 1880s by a
jeweler from New York named Goldsmith or Goldblatt or something.
Later, it was used as a kind of annex to the Old Homestead, when they
had an overflow of customers on a weekend. After that, it was a
boardinghouse that rented out single rooms."
"The Old Homestead ?" Brief questions were decidedly safer. I
remembered my friend mentioning the Old Homestead back in New
York. Was it my imagination that Finbar was speaking faster than
usual ? As though he were trying to cover up words he wasn't
saying ?
"Yes. It's one of the oldest red-light houses in the West. Lf you
like, I'll drive you past there when we get to Cripple Creek. It's a
museum now. You might like to go in and have a look around. They

-- 194 of 676 --

GURUS, GHOSTS, AND AVATARS "* 131
have guides there who give real interesting talks about the Madam,
Pearl DeVere, and all the swingin' that went on there during the gold
rush, like the bells over the beds the girls used to ring when they
looked out the window and saw the cops comin' up the front walk.
Pearl's story has a sad ending, but I won't tell you now or 111 spoil it for
you."
He picked up speed, his words tumbling out faster and faster.
"Most of the furnishings inside are authentic, back from when the
place was doing business as usual. If you like antiques, you'll enjoy
going through the Old Homestead, and also the main museum at the
train depot. Victor has a museum too. And there's the Melodrama at
the Imperial Hotel in Cripple Creek, just down the hill from ... the
house you'll be . . . living in."
Was I imagining it, or did he hesitate ?
"Just walking into the lobby of the Imperial makes you feel like
you fell asleep and woke up in the nineteenth century. And the plays
there are ..."
"Maybe some other time, Finbar," I interrupted. "I'd like to drive
around with you and see all those places, or walk to them myself later,
but I want to get settled in the house before dark." Why had he called
my question about Tesla strange ?
"Can't say that I blame you. Night isn't the best time to unpack
in a house you've never . . . been in or lived in before. Especially
when you're alone. Then there's that warning of a storm maybe bein'
on the way. If one of those wild ones blows up, it won't be a very
cheerful greeting for your first time in the mountains. It could make
things kinda gloomy. Too bad." *
"Finbar ..." I looked directly at him, and spoke deliberately.
"Why did you say it was strange when I asked you about where Nikola
Tesla stayed when he was in Cripple Creek ?"
He didn't answer. Except for clearing his throat again several

-- 195 of 676 --

132 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
times loudly, he remained silent, as if he hadn't heard me. But I
persisted.
"What's the name of the street where the rooming house you said
he might have stayed in is located ? The one across from the high
school and the gymnasium ?"
A long pause. Then . . .
u
Carr Avenue. Three fifteen Carr Avenue. Named after Gover-
nor Carr."
Quickly, I reached in the pocket of my cherry-red poplin Wind-
breaker with the attached elf hood (my favorite for a number of years,
patched and repatched), and pulled out a folded sheet of notepaper. I
stared at it.
'Three fifteen Carr Avenue ? Why, that's ... the address of the
house I'm renting from you." I trembled slightly, for no particular
reason.
"Yes, well . . . yes," he mumbled, his face turning a rosy pink.
"That's true, it is. That's why some folks say the house is haunted, I
guess. But there's no real proof Tesla ever stayed there, you under-
stand. It's only a rumor." He grinned at me reassuringly.
"Well, I hope the rumor is true," I answered, smiling what I tried
to make a bright smile, my voice projecting a cheerfulness I didn't
feel. "Then I'll have something exciting to write about to everyone
back in New York."
Finbar then threw me one of his widest Irish grins, to show me
he had now recovered from his fear of being a captive companion in a :
car with a witch. 1 had evidently convinced him, with my feigned
casual reaction to the shock of the thought that Tesla had lived in the
house where I was going to be staying alone — that I wasn't going to
turn him into a toad, or cast any spells he couldn't handle. I grinned

-- 196 of 676 --

GURUS, GHOSTS, AND AVATARS * 133
back at him, trying to appear nice and normal, although inwardly, I
felt anything but normal.
Suddenly, I turned to Finbar as we drove down the winding road
to Cripple Creek, and asked, "He's not still alive is he ? 1 mean Tesla."
"Oh, no. He's been dead for years. Died in New York, after the
government — or somebody — set fire to his laboratory and burned it
to the ground, with all his papers and research notes. It just about
broke his heart, they say. He went back to New York after old J. P.
Morgan pulled back his financial backing, and they tore down his
lightning tower, or whatever it was — in the Springs. Seems that
Morgan got scared when he found out that one of Tesla 's inventions
was a thing where, if folks just had an antenna in their backyards, they
could pull in all the electrical energy they'd ever need for anything —
to run their homes or farms — right out of the air, without it costing
them a penny. Guess Morgan thought that would be milking the cow
for free, so to speak. And by then, Edison and the government were
gettin' together, all cozy, so nobody approved of Tesla figurin' out a
way to give away electricity to folks for nothing.
"Some say Tesla died of heartbreak: He was a broken man all
right. Heartbroken and financially broken. Others say he died of
injuries from when he was struck by a car when he was crossing the
street near the New Yorker Hotel, where he was staying. I read in
some book that there were those who didn't believe the car running
him down was an accident. Some folks claim it was the Nazis, be-
cause he was working on something that would have won any war for
our side. He had a lot of supporters. Mark Twain thought he was
brilliant, and they were good friends."
Finbar was silent for a few seconds. "There are also those who
Say that aside from the accident injuries, Tesla might have lived forever
... or still be living. But that's a far-out theory if there ever was one.
No intelligent person would believe it."

-- 197 of 676 --

134 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
In view of Finbar's last statement, I decided not to say aloud what
I was thinking, which was: "I believe it."
Finbar continued his tale as we turned down Bennett Avenue,
past the Cripple Creek District Museum and the train station. "Tesla
got to play one last joke on everybody, though. His funeral was held
in the Cathedral of St. John the Divine, in New York. Hundreds of
scientists and famous people attended the services. And there were
reporters and photographers from just about every big newspaper and
magazine in the world. Well, they were all using Eastman Kodak film
in their cameras, and they took a lot of pictures of Tesla in his open
casket, up on the altar.
"Then they stepped back. It was kind of a dramatic moment,
because, just after they took the last picture, a. ray of sunlight hit
Tesla's head from one of the stained glass windows, and folks heard a
loud clap of thunder, but it wasn't raining. The weird thing was, all
those pictures they took ... I read where it was more than fifty —
every single one of the negatives was blurred. Couldn't see a thing.
Eastman Kodak couldn't figure it out. So Tesla got the last word, in a
way."
I was silent, thinking, as Finbar finished his story. "It's too bad
this country has suppressed Tesla 's work. Kids in school never hear
about him. All the textbooks say is that Edison discovered electricity.
But we wouldn't have electricity in the form we have it today without
Tesla's alternating current — AC. Poor fella. They say Marconi stole
Tesla 's invention of short wave energy, or radio, after Tesla let Marconi
come into his lab and see what he was doin' with all those
experiments."
"For shame, America, for shame." I murmured softly, but Finbar
didn't hear me. He wound up his Tesla tale with a startling piece of ]
information.
"Tesla was a shy man, they say. Like I said, from the one picture
I ever saw of him, he looked a whole lot like that Howard Hughes \

-- 198 of 676 --

GURUS, GHOSTS, AND AVATARS * 135
fella. Black hair. Black mustache. Dark eyes. He didn't like to have
his picture taken, so he must have maybe zapped the cameras in the
church somehow . . . maybe with one of those electromagnetic light
waves he was always experimenting with in his laboratories. Anyway,
they've never been able to figure out what happened. -
"And then there's this invention he was workin' on before he was
hit by the car. Called a Tesla coil, I think. They use it in some process
today they call Kirlian photography . . . taking pictures of the human
aura, whatever that is. I've heard tell his Tesla coil is some kind of
static electricity he claimed would repair bone marrow, make broken
bones knit faster, heal arthritis and just about everything else. It's
supposed to stop any kind of pain with just one or two treatments.
Gives you a positive mental attitude too — even removes the desire for
drink and drugs. It's supposed to tune in to . . . what did I read ? . . .
to the vibratory frequency of each cell or something. I figured the
plans for it were burned when his New York laboratory caught fire,
but there's a rumor he taught somebody who worked in his lab how to
build one . . . some fella who's living out west. ..."
Finbar's voice trailed off as we drove up in front of my new
home. I didn't comment on his last words. There seemed to be noth-
ing to say. But there was a lot to think about.
******
After the ghost sighting in my house I've related to you, I pon-
dered the Tesla story a great deal. Could the ghost in the corner have
been the astral of Tesla, haunting the house he had once lived in ?
Finbar's description of him matched what the frightened couple had
seen that night. Then, too, I later read a number of books about Tesla,
and learned that he was fond of wearing evening clothes. He was a
formal man. A lonely man too. A Cancerian, deeply attached to his
mother. She invented a number of things herself, yet she couldn't
read. After I thought about the "corner ghost" haunting my little slip-

-- 199 of 676 --

136 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
ping-off-the-time-track house, I felt more comfortable about it. If it
was Tesla, I thought, I wish he would communicate. Actually . .
finally ... he did. But that story I'll have to save for still another
future book.
One night during an electrical storm in Cripple Creek, I sat on
the front porch, watching the yellow-white serpents of lightning
streaking across the sky . . . and meditating about ... a legend. A
legend concerning a Priest ... or a Priestess ? ... of the lost continent
of Atlantis . . . who is supposed to have buried, beneath the Earth, just
before that once fair land was inundated . . . magnetic fields .. . . to
attract, during the Aquarian Age, those souls who would shine the
beams of Love and Light into the darkness. More "New Age" thinkers
every year have taken up residence in Cripple Creek, Victor, and the
surrounding areas.
In alchemy, gold is called magnetic. And . . . there was Winfield
Scott Stratton, the gold-mining king, calling Cripple Creek the "bowl
of gold" . ... formed from the eruption of a volcano that simultaneously
carved out the valley where the town lies and saying that the
gold rush of the late 1890s only scratched the surface ... and what
about the possible approaching gold rush the Old-Timers predict for
the early 1990s ? . . . (Why did such a thought as that fly through my
mind ?) . . .the haunted Garden of the Gods . . . where only those
with peace in their hearts were allowed by the Ute Indians to come
and pray. ... to chant . . . musical mantras.
Gold. Magnetic. Magnetism. Alchemy. Nikola Tesla. The
Utes. Magnetic power points. Clairaudience. Clairvoyance.
Ghosts. Voices. Soupds from yesterday. Maggie. Vibrations mea-
sured by angstrom units of light waves per second.
.... magnetic fields buried beneath the Earth ....
Yes, Cripple Creek is a strangely haunted place. Hiding many |
secrets, veiling many mysteries. Why am I here ? I wondered.
When I'd first arrived . . . that first morning of awakening there . . il

-- 200 of 676 --

GURUS, GHOSTS, AND AVATARS * 137
when I saw the deep green woods everywhere, all around . . . and the
snow-capped mountain peaks in the background ... I sensed there
was something magical about the place.
This is the forest primeval, I thought . . . with murmuring pine
and hemlock. Longfellow. Well, not hemlock. And no oak or maple
either. But enough murmuring pine,' spruce, and aspen to fill a hun-
dred Grimm's fairy tales . . . with the fragrance of some dark green,
echoed promise . . . wafting on the cool, crisp breeze in the pure, clean
mountain air that fairly sparkles with electricity. A proper place, in-
deed, for any kind of star quest.
I solved the mystery of "twenty till and twenty after" while 1 was
there. To my own satisfaction, at least. Ill tell you about it in Chapter
Eight. Don't peek ahead — just wait. That's a rhyme ! So you must
obey it. Obeying anything said in rhyme is an old Irish superstition I
just made up !
******
For many years I wasn't certain of the meaning of the word seren-
dipity. I thought it meant something like peace or serenity. After all,
the word 'serenity' is* contained within it. Then one of my Colorado
Avatars signed a note she left on my porch with "Serendipity," so one
day I asked her (yes, this particular Guru was female) the real meaning
of the word. I remember how fascinated and delighted I was with her
answer. She told me that the meaning and its origin was much more
exciting than 'serenky.'
The word 'serendipity' was coined in 1784 by Horace Walpole,
after a Persian faerie tale called The Three Princes ofSerendip, in which
the three princes make miraculous and unexpected, fortunate discov-
eries ! And so, the word means: an aptitude for making fortunate and
magical discoveries .... unexpectedly.
My retreat to the Rockies was most certainly serendipitous. And

-- 201 of 676 --

138 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
I trust that my sharing of the haunted setting where these star signs
were born will bring you serendipity too.
In closing this chapter about Gurus, Ghosts, and Avatars, mag-
netic power points and vibratory frequencies, I'd like to leave with you
a few coded words in a very brief verse, written by one of my Avatars
under one of his several current Earth identities of Kyril Demys . . .
although he has written many brilliant and inspired works of much
greater length — both in the Present . . . and several hundred years
ago.
the ageless melody, unheard, heals
the healing vision, unseen, leads
the true leaders, unknown, rescue
the rescuers, immortal, know . .
.
******

-- 202 of 676 --

4
DEJAVU
the laws of Karma and reincarnation:
how yesterday's vices and virtues result
in today's sorrows and joys . . .
how to balance these
for a happier Present and Future
*

-- 203 of 676 --

140 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
there is much I have learned
yet, much I still seek to fathom
in some silent depths I feel mysteriously drawn to
probe
for lost Essenic pearls of truth
which first appear, then disappear
in swirls of deep, green water
wisps of love ... hazes of
fear
sometimes distorted . . .
sometimes clear
and always the question
why ?
what is this insistent pull on my mind ?
what is it urging me to find ?
is it simply a need to pursue, with
Aries persistence
the reason for humanity's continued
existence ?
no, I fear it is something more . . . long lost on a
forgotten shore
calling me on and on ... to explore ... the
ancient laws
of Karma
******

-- 204 of 676 --

DEJAVU * 141
ver since high school, like everyone else, I suppose,
I've been somewhat intimidated by dictionaries,
slightly in awe of the erudite folk who compile them.
It takes courage to contradict Webster, nearly as
much as it takes to contradict the Bible — although
in the latter case, I must point out that the word "Bible" does contain
the word "lie," thereby hiding a great mystery, one we'll try to partially
penetrate in the first page of Chapter 7, when we ponder some of the
secrets of the book of Genesis.
Recent editions of Webster's have finally sanctioned the inclusion
of the word "Karma." That's good. It proves that Karma has joined,
the parade of "new words in common usage." You hear it spoken just
about everywhere these days, yet few of those who use the word fully
'
comprehend the concept behind it. Even when they believe they do,
more often than not they're mistaken. Like Webster. Regretfully, I
must tell you that the dictionary's definition of Karma is . . . well . . .
wrong.
Karma: "... the force generated by a person's actions, held in Hin-
duism and Buddhism to perpetrate transmigration, and to de-
termine his destiny in his next existence"
Most assuredly, that definition contains serious flaws to anyone
other than a Buddhist or one of the Hindu faith, and after all, there are
other philosophies than these which are founded on Karma, such as
astrology, numerology, metaphysics — and in the beginning, before it
was suppressed, and removed from the Holy Works, also Christianity.
Maybe it's Merriam, not Webster, who's guilty. The cover reads:
New Merriam-Webster Dictionary. I have such warm, walking-through-
red - and - gold - autumn - leaves - smelling - crisp - football - weather -
and-the-smoke-of-bonfires schoolday memories associated with good
old Webster, I'd prefer to blame Merriam.

-- 205 of 676 --

142 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
So Mr. Merriam does not get an "A" for accuracy on his dictionary
report card. Maybe a B plus, though, because I do rather like his
opening phrase: "the force generated by a person's actions" Those
words evoke a powerful image of how the whole thing works. Be-
cause the law of Karma is, indeed, a force — a force composed of
electromagnetic energy — and it is most certainly generated by a per-
son's actions. But that's only half true, and half is not whole.
As for the first flaw in Merriam 's definition, if he felt obliged to
present the misleading doctrine of transmigration in his dictionary
(albeit correctly based on certain Hindu and Buddhist beliefs), he
should be fair enough to give equal space to the other side of Karma
and reincarnation, which is definitely antitransmigration. I promise
him, if dictionary compilers are concerned with such matters, the
logic of the truth of Karma shall prevail, and he will not be born again
as an anteater or a water buffalo. As a matter of fact, one need not die
at all, but that's a deep subject we'll share in a later chapter called
Physical Immortality. The main thing to remember for the time being
is that in no way will you be born again into the body of an insect or
an animal, fish or fowl.
To begin with, you can choose to govern and ordain your per-
sonal destiny — to be the master of your own fate. Don't ever forget
that, because it's as important to your happiness as the end of the
nuclear arms race and the nuclear-waste-caused acid rain is to the
survival of the planet.
Whether you consciously realize it yet or not, you've enrolled
yourself by choice (on the level of your Higher Self) in a spiritual class-
room. And the school of Karma (macrocosm to microcosm) is just
like any Earth school in most respects. In Earth schools, when you
graduate the fifth grade, you move on to the sixth grade (the next
level) — and if you've learned particularly well, you may even skip a
grade or so. But should you jail the fifth grade, what happens ? You
remain right there where you are until your teachers feel you've
learned enough to be advanced to the next grade (or level). You don't

-- 206 of 676 --

DEjA VU * 143
get plunked back into the fourth or second grade or kindergarten, just
because you failed your fifth grade exams. And that should end the
confusion about transmigration. Likewise, you don't get plunked
back into the body of a grasshopper or a kangaroo when you've failed
a certain grade (level) of human existence. You remain in the same
general type environment, life after life (incarnation after incarnation),
until you're ready to pass your tests and advance into the next grade
— or level of enlightenment — equipped with a body temple made of
finer substance (cell regeneration), a more evolved mind and illumi-
nated spirit with which to meet the challenges of the higher grades, all
the *way up to the spiritual "college courses." Eventually you receive
your "Master's" degree.
If you're wondering whether or not the spirit, in the long-forgot-
ten past, ever chose to incarnate into mineral, insect, or animal form
. . . reflected in the poet's musing . . . "when 1 was a tadpole, and you
were a fish" .... and should you also be wondering why half the
astrological signs are represented by animals . . . why animals are on
Earth, and what manifested them here, eons upon eons ago, know that
there is an answer to such puzzlings. They are all matters relating to a
personal enlightenment and esoteric instruction I've experienced . . .
part of the true story of Genesis. It still needs more support from the
teachings of one far more illuminated than myself, and I feel that such
full verification is several years away. When I'm sufficiently instructed
and prepared, and when I'm told the time is right, I will write about all
these "twelfth night secrets." But it's a delicate and complex subject,
and considering the controversy it could create among both the sin-
cere Bible Fundamentalists and the Darwin disciples, it might have to
be presented as science fiction. For the present, it's sufficient for you
to realize that there is an explanation for the animal enigma, and that it
does not necessarily contradict or oppose either the creation theory or
the evolution theory, but rather enriches and expands both, bringing
them together in harmony.
As long as we're discussing animals related to the falsehood of
transmigration, I'd like to give you my answer (since it relates to both

-- 207 of 676 --

144 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
Karma and Lexigrams) to the question I've heard literally hundreds of
times: "Why should it be that God (or god) spelled backward is
dog ?" It's not just a coincidence. Unless they're severely beaten,
starved, or fall victim to rabies, dogs demonstrate the closest thing to
"god-love" humans can experience. No matter how much a dog is
ignored or neglected — or sharply spoken to — no matter how often
you forget to feed or water him or her when there are other things on
your mind, your dog is still there, gazing at you adoringly, eyes brim-
ming over with pure love. No matter how badly a dog is treated, he or
she is still ready to protect you, defend you, and love you. The wells
of understanding and compassion are fathoms deep. A dog forgives
and forgives and forgives . . . endlessly. Nothing you do, short of
violent and repeated beatings, will kill a dog's undying love for and
loyalty to both master or mistress.
A dog is not only your best friend, but also the best example
you'll ever have of what love is all about. It's taught (falsely and incor-
rectly) by some transmigration doctrines that the next step up in rein-
carnation from dog form is human form. Wrong as such doctrine is, I
wonder why those who believe in it consider from dog to human one
level up. Dogs are more patient, faithful, loyal and loving, forgiving
and compassionate than most humans — except for those poor, tor-
tured dogs bred and trained by people to attack and kill, such as pit
bulls and Dobermans (include cock fights, bullfights, and most scien-
tific testing laboratories). I use the term "people" rather than humans
here because I don't consider such people to be human. They're sev-
eral levels below human and many levels below animals. Those who
abuse the smaller and more helpless (animals) or the innocent (chil-
dren) have heavy-heavy Karma ahead, and they richly deserve it.
As I said earlier, the dictionary's definition of Karma is only par-
tially correct. Further, the part in Merriam's definition about Karma
"determining a person's destiny" is misleading.
One portion of it which is incorrect, and, I might add, glaringly
obvious, is Merriam's choice of pronouns, i.e.: "... to determine his

-- 208 of 676 --

DEjA VU * 145
destiny in his next existence." Well, really. Are we to accept the insin-
uation that only men are given the chance in a future life to atone for
goofs and faux pas in the past and present ones ? With all due re-
spect, I suggest that the dictionary compilers take more frequent cof-
fee breaks during their work, so they have time to read an occasional
newspaper or magazine to inform them of the revolution. That is, the
dawning of the golden Aquarian Age, as they seem not to have no-
ticed, has been gradually seeding the masculine brain with this far out
and curious idea that women are entitled to all of the same positive-
negative aspects of Life as men — and are, therefore, surely also en-
tided to their own personal slice of Karma.
Now, it's true that Karma does, indeed, "control destiny," but
that's only part of the picture, and when you give only a partial
glimpse of truth, you leave truth seekers with false impressions. In
this instance, they're led into believing that their personal fate or des-
tiny is governed entirely by this mysterious force called Karma. Since
it's represented to be totally in charge, without equivocation, just for-
get it. Why try at all, when nothing you do — or don't do — is going
to change a single turn of the karmic wheel you set in motion yourself,
so long ago you can't even remember giving it that initial spin ?
I'd like to fatten the dictionary definition of Karma.
Is the irresistible force of Karma, as the dictionary definition indi-
cates, the sole determining factor in your personal destiny ? Yes and
No. It depends.
Karma is the determining factor in your destiny only when you
allow it to bef by ignoring its inflexible laws. In this respect, it's very
like your astrological birth chart, which is logical, since your horo-
scope is simply a picture, using coded symbols, of all the major and
still viable vibrations you've set up around yourself in this life, through
your now forgotten actions in a series of past incarnations — and with
which you must deal in the current one.
The less^ou believe in astrology, the more your chart fits you like

-- 209 of 676 --

146 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
a tight glove (because you haven't yet learned how to graduate from a
pawn in the chess game to a King or Queen). It's always interesting to
"read" the birth chart of a sceptic and watch the shock when the small-
est detail in that person's life is exposed, which spooks him or her into
wanting to know more about this "silly parlor game," with the dawn-
ing awareness that the art and science of astrology is neither silly nor a
game. (Except for those newspaper and magazine astrological predic-
tive columns, which have no more relationship to true astrology than
the game of Monopoly has to actual real estate transactions.)
You see, while you're still uninitiated, the planetary movements
keep you "in line," prevent you from drifting too far afield of your
karmic obligations. Only when you believe in — then investigate —
and finally comprehend astrology (and numerology) are you released
from the restrictions placed on you by your birth chart. There's an
ancient wisdom that teaches "the chart of a saint is impossible to
read." Why ? Because the "saint" (and note that the word contains
"sin" for an excellent reason we'll go into later in the lexigram chapter)
has risen above the natal chart, and is free of it.
Enlightenment causes your personal aura to vibrate at a vastly
increased rate of angstrom units per second. This vibratory frequency
makes you immune to the electromagnetic vibrations bombarding you
from the cosmos in a pattern commensurate with the positions of the
planets when you drew your first breath, at which instant the more
than forty billion electric cells in your brain were programmed, like a
computer — which is precisely what the brain is (and manmade com-
puters are but a pale imitation of it, as we've discussed earlier).
. You might say that enlightenment is a form of deprogramming,
granting immunity from the control of your destiny by planetary
movement. The same is true of the force of Karma, which is what
planetary movement is all about. Ignore Karma 's rules, and it keeps a
tight and relentless rein on your life. But when you grow to care
. enough about Yesterday, Today, and Tomorrow — when you begin to
see these as an Eternal Now, and not separate slices of Time, then

-- 210 of 676 --

DEjA VU * 147
you'll know how to take over the reins of your personal destiny — in
fact, to ordain exactly how it shall; be. "Seek the truth, and the truth shall
set you free" Free of the karmic yoke. It's a never-ending puzzlement
to me how people can continue to confuse the words of the humble
carpenter from Nazareth into webs of complexities, when he exerted
such effort to make them simple and clear.
One final example of the astrological chart and its relation to your
karmic destiny, and then well go on to a more detailed definitiqn of
the word Karma itself. Image your horoscope as a karmic playpen,
where you are confined for your own good (to work out your necessary
Karma). In the microcosm example of the baby, when it. grows
stronger and wiser, it's lifted out of the playpen, and. has the freedom
to wander about, more or less as it chooses. The same with you when
you've grown spiritually strong enough and mentally wise enough to
wander by yourself and make your own mistakes (new Karma) if you
choose, which I hope you don't. This is called being under the law of
Instant Karma, (with Karma from all past lives erased and paid in full)
which is a heavy soul test in itself, as we'll soon see. But first, exactly
what is Karma ?
The law of Karma is based solidly upon the rock of Newton's law
of cause and effect: for every action, there is a reaction. John hurts
Mary, and Mary (in a future existence) meets John in a new body, with
a different name (sometimes a different sex) — and hurts John back,
through a dim awareness (on a subconscious, not a conscious level)
that he formerly hurt her. Then comes a new lifetime for both, and
now it's John's turn to hurt Mary again — then Mary's to hurt John —
with each becoming the channel for the other's boomerang Karma in a
chain of dreary, seemingly endless lives (incarnations).
Such a chain of Karma can be broken in only two ways.
1. The one most recently hurt (in a previous existence) is John. He
is enlightened to the truth of karmic law, and refuses to be the
continuing channel for Mary's Karma. He realizes that his inex-

-- 211 of 676 --

148 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
plicable urge to hurt her is somehow "coming to her" (he senses
this subconsciously) — but he makes a conscious decision to re-
fuse to become a channel for her karmic retribution (what she
has coming, under karmic law). In effect, Mary is forgiven by
John, and the chain of Karma breaks. (Mary is fortunate.) A
broken karmic chain brings freedom to both people who have
been linked to it.
2. John is not yet sufficiently enlightened to behave as described in
the previous paragraph, but Mary is enlightened to the truth of
karmic law, and responds to the hurt inflicted on her by John by
saying to herself (and meaning it), "What must I have done to this
person to cause him to hurt me so ? I've done nothing to cause
such hurt in this life, but I must have hurt him in a former life or
I wouldn't be in this position. I can experience no luck, good or
bad, that I didn't bring on myself by initiating a like action in a
former incarnation. Therefore, I not only deserve this, but per-
haps more." Mary, in other words, is willing to pay her karmic
debt gracefully and willingly, without bitterness or resentment.
Once Mary has accepted the hurt as her own responsibility, and
holds no resentment to plant itself in the seed atom of the heart,
and therefore be retained in subconscious memory in the next
life, she has broken the chain of Karma through a different kind of
forgiveness — through an understanding that will be carried
over to the next existence when she meets John again.
That's how it works. The karmic chain can be broken by either
one of the two people bound by it (and, of course, you have karmic
ties with many people . . . not just one). It can be broken either by the
potential giver of the Karma — or by the potential receiver of the
Karma.
Remember, you have no luck — either good or bad — that you
don't deserve because of your actions, whether in this life or in an
earlier.one. Every action set in motion will remain in motion until it is

-- 212 of 676 --

DEjAvu * 149
negated by a balancing of the laws of cause and effect — a leveling of
the karmic debt. It's inescapable. In a moment, 111 give you another
example of how to balance your Karma. What causes all the confu-
sion is forgetfulness. Karmic amnesia is a tragic thing. To learn from
past experience requires some remembered knowledge of the lessons
of that past experience. The word "memory" contains the two words
"more" and "me." If you could only remember more, you would have
more of yourself. It's been said that just the belief in reincarnation will
gradually bring the memory of past lives as a gift to an illuminated
spirit.
However, you must become illuminated to receive the gift of kar-
mic memory, capable of tuning in and out of memory selectively —
just as you might tune in or out of a radio station or a television
channel. Otherwise, chaos would result in the mind and brain, lead-
ing to insanity. Imagine how it would be if you could not tune in a
radio station or television channel selectively, and all stations or chan-
nels were bombarding you simultaneously. You would hear and see
nothing but senseless and frightening chaotic confusion. That's why,
at your current level of evolvement, you're protected from such certain
insanity of simultaneous karmic memory by a form of spiritual am-
nesia, until you begin to vibrate on a high enough frequency to be able
to be selective in karmic recall.
The pattern of Karma is not difficult to grasp. What is the myste-
rious force set into motion by your actions ? Karma. How is this
force controlled and directed ? By the Higher Angel of Yourself, the
teacher in your spiritual classroom. How do you break the chain of
Karma ? By getting in touch with your own Higher Self, via tuning in,
as to a radio station or television channel, on the right frequency.
How do you accomplish this ? Through electromagnetic energy —
magnetic attraction. Where do you obtain this energy ? From desire.
Through intense wanting — needing — seeking — desiring. Intense
desire creates an energy wave that joins others on the same frequency
level, and varying degrees of enlightenment occur.

-- 213 of 676 --

1 50 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
Once again, "Seek the truth, and the truth shall set you free."
The first steps toward seeking the truth are wanting, wishing, needing,
desiring. Reading all the books on the subject of Karma and reincar-
nation you can find. If your desire to know is sincere and intense, not
just idle curiosity, you 11 begin to experience flashes of dej& vu that can
lead you into the realms of self-discovery you need in order to selec-
tively remember long ago and far away. You will have ordained such
memory, karmic recall — and you will get it. "Ask and you shall
receive." It's that simple.
It may seem like a non sequitur, but it is, in fact, so simple that
it's often difficult to grasp, unless you "become as a little child" — the
requirement given by the Galilean to "enter the Kingdom" (of your
Higher Self).
It won't happen immediately, but it will happen, and it will be an
exciting surprise when it does. You'll see. The time is swiftly ap-
proaching in this Aquarian Age for all karmic circles to complete
themselves, for all Twin Selves, separated so many eons ago, to find
each other and unite again in perfect Oneness, bringing about the
ultimate Harmony of the Universe. The time will soon come when
clear and total recall, vivid images of deja vu will replace current kar-
mic amnesia . . . and memories of paths once walked together will be
brought into sharp focus by choice, so that everyone might visit long-
forgotten, precious events of past lives. The Time Machine envisioned
by H. G. Wells is not a scientific instrument, not an invention accom-
plished through the laws of physics, but a method of travel within
yourself, built upon the laws of metaphysics, (beyond physics). As
Wells himself wrote, "... the day will come when we shall walk again
in vanished scenes . . . stretch painted limbs we thought were dust . . J
and feel the sunshine of a million years ago."
Meanwhile ...
. . . until you train yourself to receive flashes of former lives, and
are successful in achieving this from time to time, there's an effective

-- 214 of 676 --

DEjAvu * 151
alternate way to balance your Karma. First, when something severely
negative happens to you, realize that you inflicted the same kind of
suffering on someone (most likely that same person) in a previous
existence, or you would not be receiving it now. Accept full responsibility
for the negative situation, even though it appears on the surface that
you're innocent of causing it. Remove from your. mind and heart all
bitterness and resentment toward the giver of the hurt, and know that
he or she (not comprehending the first method of breaking the karmic
chain I described a few pages back), is merely the channel for this
particular Karma, which you set into motion yourself in a former life,
never mind that you can't now remember doing so.
Such total and sincere acceptance (it must be genuine and deeply
felt, not just an act) will, of itself alone, considerably lighten the bur-
den of the particular Karma you're experiencing, and you'll sense it
right away. Often, the person will seem confused or vaguely
ashamed, and stop the negative action, either immediately, or
gradually.
Next step: meditate on the polarity of the negative action — the
thing which is now happening to you, but which you did to another in
a former incarnation — and perform that polarity action (or several) of
the opposite quality toward one or several people, including the per-
son who is causing your suffering. Quite often, this will balance the
scales of Karma so that the cause of your suffering is permanently
removed, and matters turn rightside up again swiftly (usually
shockingly). You may need a couple of brief examples.
This is a true story. A friend of mine in Charleston, West Vir-
ginia, was shaken when his doctors told him he had contracted a rare
disease for which medical science has no cure, and which would grad-
ually, over the period of less than a year, completely paralyze him, He
first accepted responsibility for this Karma. He realized that he had
caused someone (or several people) to be paralyzed in a former life,
and having set the situation into motion, the reaction of his initial
action was now attempting to balance the scales, under karmic law.

-- 215 of 676 --

152 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
(Karmic law is quite impersonal.) He could have initiated such action
by being a hit-and-run driver, running from the scene of an accident,
leaving his victim paralyzed — he could have inflicted paralysis on
another in the "wonderful sport" of football or boxing — he could I
even have been one of those in Rome in charge of throwing the Chris-
tians to the Lions in the Coliseum. Next, he meditated upon several
forms of polarity action, and made a decision.
He resigned from his job, and at a substantial financial loss, while
suffering increasing pain, he offered his services to a crippled chil-
1
dren's hospital in a nearby city for a modest salary, barely enough to |
allow him to rent a small furnished room near the hospital grounds.
He read aloud to the children, assisted with their physical therapy,
and performed several unpleasant but necessary menial janitorial j
tasks. During the first week, he was so moved by the cheerful smiles
and noncomplaining attitudes of the children, many of whom had
been diagnosed as terminal, he forgot about his own illness, except at
night, when the pain seemed to take over more severely in his limbs,
making it difficult to sleep. Three months after he began working j
with the crippled children, he noticed his pain had substantially sub-
sided, and a couple of weeks later, he had no sensation of discomfort ]
at all. Returning to Charleston for a scheduled series of medical tests |
and treatments, his amazed doctor told him that all signs of the fatal
disease had disappeared. Spontaneous remission" is what his doctor
called his complete recovery (the medical term for a miracle). Karmic
law, as I said, is impersonal. It's not concerned with how the scales are
balanced, only that they are balanced.
Here's another example of lifting Karma. When a woman is told
that she is barren, that she can't conceive a child for whatever medical
reason (except an upside-down uterus), there's a karmic cause for this
tragedy of unfulfilled longing. She has either repeatedly refused to
bear children for selfish reasons in several past lifetimes, or has abused
them in some manner. So she decides to adopt a child. (I'm not
leaving out the husband, I'm just concentrating on the woman's indi-
vidual Karma in this example.) What happens after the adoption ? A

-- 216 of 676 --

DEjAvu * 153
physician friend of mine in New York, and another in California, told
me that the statistics are as high as seventy- five to eighty- five percent.
Of what ? Seventy-five to eighty-five percent of women diagnosed as
barren (including those whose husbands have a low sperm count)
who then adopt a child, discover soon afterward, to their delight, that
they've become pregnant.
The barren woman has been made so by her Karma, the teacher
of her lessons in the spiritual classroom, so shell comprehend what
it's like to be alone and childless, and consequently carry over this
subconscious memory into the next existence, during which she will
neither refuse to bear children nor abuse them. However, when she
indicates that she's already learned this karmic lesson of atonement by
taking in a motherless child to give it love, the karmic burden is
lifted. Naturally, the husband's Karma is also lifted, since it's en-
twined with hers.
In those cases where adoption takes place and the woman does
not later become pregnant, then the action against children in a former
life has been extremely negative (perhaps even murder), leaving a
Karma which requires more than one act of atonement in more than
one incarnation to balance it out. Still, by taking in a baby needing
love and care, and treating it as her own, she is gradually erasing past
karmic debts, and is on her way to a complete absolution of them. At
least she's going forward instead of going backward ... or standing
still.
There are as many examples of Karma as there are people on this
Earth, each with thousands of minor and major facets of karmic cause
and effect entangling the events in their lives. The one wide-sweeping
and instant way to break each karmic chain is to forgive everyone who
hurts you, even before they ask — even when they never ask. Not only
will forgiveness break your karmic chain, but also theirs — unless and
until they go running out to make new Karma for themselves — and
unless and until you do the same.
If someone steals from you, you can be sure that you've stolen

-- 217 of 676 --

154 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
from someone, most likely that same person, by whatever name and in
whatever body (the temple of the soul) he or she resided in during a
relationship in a former existence. When you receive kindness an
compassion, financial aid — or any kind of apparently undeserved |
favor — from someone in this life, it's not undeserved at all. You caffl
be sure that you performed the same service for that person in a pre-
vious incarnation, and he or she is magnetized by karmic law to return
it now. It works both ways, you see. The John-hurts-Mary, Mary-
hurts-John pattern can also be John-helps-Mary, Mary-helps-John kar-
mic chain . . . and that's the "golden chain that binds."
Again, the words of the Nazarene were simple and clear. "Do
good unto all those who hate you and say all manner of evil against
you ... if a man strikes you on the right cheek, turn and let him strike
you on the left cheek ... and if any man will sue thee at the law, and
take away thy coat, let him have thy cloak also. . . . Resist ye not evil."
In other words, pay your karmic debts gracefully, without complain-
ing, without bitterness or resentment, and the karmic yoke will be
miraculously lifted from you — assuming your "grace-fur acceptance
is balanced with a positive act that will balance the former negative
-
action in the karmic scales. First, accept. Then, forgive. And finally,
atone. Become at-one with yourself.
I might add, in reference to certain modern religious movements,
that just speaking the words, "I accept Jesus as my Saviour and God as
my King" does not constitute a magical mantra to remove karmic re-
sponsibility. Such spiritual laziness will accomplish no miracles. You
never hear these people quoting Jesus concerning the major flaw in
their philosophy, do you ? "Judge not that ye be judged." The "Jesus
saves" mantra often sounds less like a blessing than an unspoken
threat. Believe as I believe, or you'll burn in hell .... and all you need
do to achieve happiness is to repeat a few words . . . presto ! I'm
afraid that's not quite all there is to it. And what of those who believe
in the teachings of Avatars other than the Nazarene ? Those who
follow the equally wise precepts of Mohammed and Buddha — (pro-

-- 218 of 676 --

DEjA VU * 155
foundly wise, that is, excluding the false doctrine of transmigration,
which may have been a distortion of the original teaching).
The frequently misunderstood and misinterpreted Old Testa-
ment's "an eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth" is not meant to counsel
retribution and retaliation. It refers to the law of Karma, the law of
cause and effect. For every action there is equal reaction. Take away
someone's sight, and you will lose yours (unless you learn how to
atone and cancel the Karma). Take even so much as a tooth with
malicious intent, and someday, somewhere, somehow that person will
take a tooth from you . . . and so on . . . whatever the injury, whatever
the theft, whatever the hurt done to another might be.
You might ask, "What difference will it make if I have to pay later
for what 1 do now if I can't remember it in a future life ?" Does it
make any difference to anyone that you've seen suffering severe afflic-
tion in this present life ? Obviously, it makes a great difference. And
so will it to you — then. The suffering person you see at present
would give anything to be able to change the past that caused it — too
late. People forget that they are preparing for their then — right now.
Reincarnation and the law of Karma so clearly and totally explain
the reason for the differences between the sighted and the blind — the
healthy and the crippled — the poor and the wealthy — the fulfilled
and the lonely. Yet the leaders of all organized religions and creeds
today/when they're asked to explain such apparently unfair and cruel
judgment (assuming only one life or existence) from a supremely be-
nign Diety, respond only with: u
no comment" or "we are not to ques-
tion these things." My response to the latter is: We are not to
question .? Not so ! The Nazarene specifically counseled that we are
to "seek the truth."
Perhaps these religious leaders are pleading a sort of spiritual
Fifth Amendment, based on "whatever they say might incriminate
them" — or might expose the lack of a foundation beneath their moral

-- 219 of 676 --

156 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
teachings ? That solid, that beautifully just and logical foundation is
Karma — its road maps being astrology and numerology, concepts j
held by the Essenes, who were among those from whom Jesus learned
during his eighteen "lost years," the accounts of which were also re-
moved by the ones who committed their spiritual surgery upon the
words of the Galilean as written in the "new testaments" of his
disciples.
The important truth one must always remember about Karma is
that every man and woman began the long journey together — ancj
each will positively reach the same destination — at an individual time,
through an individually chosen method 'of travel, on an individually
selected path, using a likewise individually selected roadmap (reli-
gious belief). As the poet Kahlil Gibran succinctly expressed it:
u
Yoa
cannot rise higher than the highest which is in each of you — nor can
you sink lower than the lowest which is in each of you." Everyone is
headed toward the same destination, the eventual arrival equally as-
sured for each, regardless of the chosen mode of travel, incidentally,
when one adds the "y" for you, the word "destination" contains the
word destiny.
The concept of Karma and reincarnation, astrology and numer-
ology, were removed from the Christian Bible (remember that the
word Bible contains the word lie' in Lexigram code) through the sacri-
legious surgery of the early church "fathers" (the patriarch system has
never allowed church mothers) at various times in the past, including
the Council of Trent in a.d. 300, and the Council of Constantinople in
a.d. 553, aided by Emperor Justinian and Empress Theodora, who
insisted that all references to these concepts be removed from the Holy
Works, and the Pope acquiesced. Fortunately, these sacrilegious sur-
geons missed a few in their haste, such as the verses of Ecclesiastes,
which describe astrology and the planetary movements related to hu-
man behavior . . . and several brief discourses between Jesus and his
disciples referring to multiple reincarnations ... to name only two
examples.

-- 220 of 676 --

DEjA VU * 157
******
The song "People," from the stage musical and motion picture,
Funny Girl, observes that "lovers are very lucky people . . . they're the
luckiest people in the world." Oh, yes, they are. So very true are
those words.
Lovers are very lucky people in a karmic sense, the most fortu-
nate of all those who are making the long, weary journey back home.
Lovers may suffer more from the negative chains of their mutual
Karma than others, but they also rejoice in higher levels of ecstasy
from Karma's positive rewards than others do. They're blessed with a
more intense desire (energy, remember ?) to draw back the curtains
veiling former relationships shared in previous incarnations. Instinc-
tively, they're more aware of how to tune into the Angels of their
Higher Selves.
All lovers are linked by the silver cords (and musical chords) of
deja vu, the shared memories of past reciprocal tenderness and pas-
sion — yes, and also past reciprocal hurt and pain — realized
fleetingly but intensely during those enchanted moments of staring
deeply into each other's eyes, because the eyes are the windows of the
soul . . . and spirit.
Few modern authors have written about Karma (except for those
recommended in the Pilgrim's Progress section at the end of this book)
but many poets have used it as a basis for their works. Elizabeth
Barrett and Robert Browning were Twin Selves, and Elizabeth's famil-
iar sonnet, How Do I Love thee? has a karmic theme ... as does this
portion of a Rossetti poem . . .
I have been here before. . .
I know the grass beyond the door
the sweet, keen smell
the sighing sound, the lights around the shore

-- 221 of 676 --

158 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
you have been mine before
'though how or when I cannot tell
yet, just when at that swallow's soar
your neck turned so . . .
I knew it all of yore
'though age, faith or creed
may keep us now apart . . .
one travels the hill, the other, the lake
I claim you still for my own love's sake
delayed 'though it may be for more lives yet
much is to learn, much to forget
e're the time be come for taking you
but the time will come . . . oh, yes !
the time will come
******
As for the fourteenth line in these Rossetti verses, such reunion
need not be "delayed ... for more lives yet." When lovers understand
how to employ the law of Karma, the wairing may not be necessary;
fulfillment is attainable in the present incarnation for both. . . when
they listen to the whispers of the Higher Angels of themselves . . . and
forgive one another.
If you ever happen to be debating the truth of reincarnation or
Karma with someone who denies its existence, ask that person to ex-
plain or to account for deja vu, those inexplicable, yet very vivid and
very real — and often very provable flashes of another time ... an-
other place . . . striking one unexpectedly. Such deja vu recall has
been experienced by millions of both private and public people, from
Ralph Waldo Emerson to Henry Ford, General Patton and many oth-
ers. You can read about what happened to convince them of the truth
of Karma in the books listed in the Pilgrim's Progress section following
Chapter 9, among them, Reincarnation in World Thought, edited by

-- 222 of 676 --

dejAvu * 159
Cranston and Head — or their second book, The Phoenix Fire Mystery,
especially the first one, my personal favorite, although the second one
is equally enlightening. They may be out of print now, but any good
used bookstore should be able to locate them for you through its
"grapevine."
A postscript: While writing this chapter, I found another diction-
ary in my den, and I was right about blaming Merriam instead of
Webster for the definition of Karma I gave you earlier ! This diction-
ary's called Webster's New World Dictionary — no mention of Mer-
riam. The Webster definition, while still a touch chauvinistic, omits
transmigration, and it gives a clear and correct meaning of the word.
KARMA: the totality of a person's actions in any one of the successive
states of his existence, thought of as determining his fate in the
next
"Quite"
******

-- 223 of 676 --



-- 224 of 676 --

t / / // ^ & /l / ^
%*/^s i/iY/tr
?M<M Ikviw
5
WHILE
THE SOUL
SLUMBERS
the study of numerology,
based on the Hebrew Kabala teachings
and the Chaldean Alphabet ...
the one and only true and correct system of numbers
*

-- 225 of 676 --



-- 226 of 676 --

Mystical
Meanings
and
Practical
Applications
of
Numbers

-- 227 of 676 --

164 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
. . . for, did not the Egyptian Adepti teach
"put the mysteries of wisdom into
practice
and all evil will flee from you" ?
numerological contains the two words
magic and logical
yes, the science of numbers is wise
as "Abstract Al" Einstein knew
in the Wonderland of higher mathematics
everything in Heaven and on Earth
is arranged according to numerical discipline
. . . and the laws of metaphysics
are as inflexible and reliable
as those governing the ordinary physics
of matter
numbers are not dead — no, ciphers live !
and they give to the mind that seeks a knowing
in the dawning light of the spirits growing
answers.
".. . . while the soul slumbers
God speaks to us in numbers"
o commence, it's necessary to point out certain facts
about the little understood and much maligned art
and science of numerology, for those of you who
might have been led astray in the past.
There are several numerical alphabets and nu-
merological systems of calculation, and goodness knows how many
books written about them. This is a pity because only one numerical
alphabet, that which has been handed down hv the ancient Chaldeans

-- 228 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 165
and the Hebrew Kabala, is valid. Likewise, there is only one system of
numerblogical calculation which is true and reliable — the Chaldean
and Kabala system, also used by the Essenes, who taught Jesus of
Nazareth during his eighteen "lost years."
Most people in today's society have an attitude toward numer-
ology ranging from amused scepticism to downright disbelief and ridi-
cule. I don't blame them. There's plenty to be amused by — and
sceptical or disbelieving of — in the majority of books on the subject.
Most of them are no more reliable than a numerical alphabet and
system you made up yourself would be.
Consequently, numerology has come to be considered only a sort
of parlor game, using "hot numbers", for betting on lotteries and horse
races ("hot numbers" based on false alphabets and systems). To most
people, numerology is a joke, not far removed from fortune-telling —
more or less "a fun thing." Rather than allow the reputation of numer-
ology to grow worse, I believe it's time to try to explain the only true
numerology, and trust that the knowledge of it will remove some of
the existing stigma against a remarkably helpful an and science, as
people learn to use the correct alphabet and system, and observe how
infallibly it works.
There are several ways the misguided pied pipers of numbers
distort the truth of numerology, but it's sufficient to know this: a reli-
able guide to the wrong books written about numerology is the numer-
ical alphabet they contain. If you read anything on the subject of
numerology, and it's based on the numerical values of each letter of
the alphabet other than the following one, the system taught in such a
book will not work, is not reliable, and your study of such a numer-
ological system will be a waste of time. Using any numerical alphabet
other than the following one, and expecting your numerological cal-
culations to be correct and helpful, is tantamount to applying astrol-
ogy in your life from an astrology book that describes Aries as timid —
Leo as introverted — Gemini as stable and stuffy — and Capricorn as
impulsive and extravagant, for example. The wrong numerical alpha-

-- 229 of 676 --

166 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
bets give numerology as bad a name as the daily newspaper astro-
logical predictions give to astrology — although monthly predictions,
in a general sense, based on the Sun Sign alone, do have a limited
validity.
The correct Chaldean-Hebrew Kabala numerical alphabet has al-
ready been shown in the Introduction on page xxvii. But I want to
present it again here, so it's handier while you're learning the system of
calculating numbers given in this chapter.
Chaldean-Hebrew Kabala Numerical Alphabet
A- 1 H-5 0-7 V-6
B-2 I- 1 P-8 W-6
C-3 J-l Q-1 X-5
D-4 K-2 R-2 Y- 1
E-5 L-3 S-3 Z-7
F-8 M-4 T-4
G-3 N-5 U-6
Before you place your faith in even this correct system of numer-
ology, you should try jts calculations for yourself. Then you'll be able
to discover how it works — but most important, if it works. You
shouldn't accept that from me or anyone else — only from your own
experience. Speaking for my own self, I've never been a real sceptic
about numerology; nevertheless I always need to know the why of
every esoteric science, and then I have to test it repeatedly to be cer-
tain it's valid. Many well-known historical figures have had complete
faith in the power of numbers (including the founders of America, as
we'll learn more about in Chapter 7, Forgotten Melodies), but I've al-

-- 230 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 167
ways needed to experience everything for myself before I totally trust
it. I had the same attitude .about astrology, when it first beckoned
me. After I had taken the time to really study it, and cast charts for
people I knew, I could see there was no use doubting it. It simply
works.
As I said in the Introduction to this book, but it bears repeating,
there are a multiplicity of star signs and universal codes which are
beyond — yet inseparable from — astrology. Each astrological sign
has its ruling planet, and each planet vibrates to its own number. As
unrelated to planetary influence as numerology, sound, music, and
color may seem, they all, nevertheless, initiate from the Luminaries
(Sun and Moon) and the planets — and are the star signs of wisdom.
King Solomon asked God to give him wisdom as "the greatest gift
he could receive," and was granted this gift simply because he asked
for it. "Ask and you shall receive." "Knock, and it shall be opened unto
you." "Seek the truth, and the truth shall set you free"
In the Book of Solomon included in the Apocrypha, King Sol-
omon, "the Wise," expresses his gratitude for this gift of "unerring
knowledge of all things that are" . . . "all things that are secret or
manifest" ... in these words:
I thank Thee, Great Creator of the Universe that Thou hast taught
me the secrets of the Planets that I mayest know the Times and Sea-
sons of things, the secrets of men's hearts, their thoughts and the
nature of their being. Thou gavest me this knowledge, which is the
foundation of all my Wisdom.
Astrology is inseparable from numerology, and Solomon was a
wise king indeed, aided in his thoughts and deeds by both of these arts
and sciences. Yet, alas ! He was also a chauvinist ("the secrets of
men's hearts"), raised in the bosom of a patriarch society. Our Mother
Who art in Heaven has forgiven Solomon and all of Her sons who

-- 231 of 676 --

168 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
have turned away from Her unknowingly, and so I shall forgive him
— and them — also.
As for King Solomon's unintentional chauvinism, a quick but
pertinent digression. Are you aware that all Mother Goose rhymes are \
riddles to be solved ? Some of them are easy to decode, others more
difficult. I'd like to share with you this particular verse of hers, which
hides more than one mystery. First, you must realize that Humpty
Dumpty is a symbol for our Earth. Then read "between the lines."
I've given you a clue for decoding the first layer of ks message in my
self-composed second verse.
Humpty Dumpty sat on a wall
Humpty Dumpty had a great jail
All the King's horses, and all the King's men
couldn't put Humpty together again.
No, all the King's horses, and all the King's men
couldn't put Humpty together again
until all the Queen's women forgave all the King's men
Then the miracle of love healed all Humpty's hurts
and made him whole and complete once again.
******
The origin of numbers is unknown, although it's certain that
Hermes Thoth knew a great deal about them, eons ago, before Atlan-
tis. The ancient Chaldeans, Egyptians, Hindus, Essenes, and the wise
ones of the Arabic world were masters of the hidden meanings of
numbers. Certain of these enlightened ones discovered what today is
known as the Precession of the Equinoxes, calculating that such an
occurrence takes place every 25,850 years. How they arrived at-such
a calculation is a mystery. By observation ? That answer requires that
they had to be around in the same flesh bodies for longer than the
approximately twenty-six thousand years of the precession. Could

-- 232 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 169
they possibly have calculated to such a fine degree without instru-
ments ? Our modern science, after laboring for hundreds of years,
has been able to do nothing but prove and acknowledge the accuracy
of the calculations of these ancient ones.
Some things must simply be accepted, with the certainty that the
answers will reveal themselves ... at the allotted time. Because every-
thing, as poetically and astrologically observed in the Book of Eccle-
siastes of our Holy Works, has an allotted time. "To everything there
is a season, and a time for every purpose under the heaven ..." .
The study and practical application of numerology is not con-
trary to anyone's religious beliefs. It's merely one of the many facets of
the harmonics of the Universe and synchronization to Nature's laws.
Earthlings bring suffering upon themselves by not complying with
these simple and logical laws. If they would learn how to harmonize
with them, then happiness, health, and success would be attainable,
instead of an ever-beckoning, seemingly impossible dream. People
call Nature and "Fate" unjust, cruel, and unfair, yet they remain unwill-
ing to take the time and trouble of learning in -which direction these irresist-
ible forces are moving.
Most of those who pray "Thy will be done on Earth, as it is in
Heaven" have no intention of attempting to discover just what that
"will" is which is obeyed in "Heaven," and broken by Earthlings nearly
every hour of their lives. Organized religion, all Churches, are, in
essence, monuments to the unknown and mysterious, yet the already
known lives within each man and each woman. "Seek ye first the King-
dom within, and all these things shall be added unto you." Earthlings
have tried every spiritual creed, and they've all failed to bring the
comfort needed. The keys or "star signs" to the mysteries of the Uni-
verse were once entrusted to priests, rabbis, and prelates, who long
ago lost the truth in their cloisters and monasteries — or buried it in
their secret ceremonies and shrouded rituals.
Astrology and numerology are eternally interlocked and inter-

-- 233 of 676 --

170 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
connected. The true solar year begins when the Sun enters into the
Spring Equinox between the 21st and 23rd day of March each year,
then appears to pass through each astrological sign of the zodiac of 30
degrees each, one after the other, Aries through Pisces, which takes
slightly less than 365 Vi days, making our calendar year popularly (al-
beit a tad incorrectly) accepted as 365 days . . .
Each 24 hours, as the Earth revolves once upon its own axis, the
twelve signs in their turn pass once over each portion of the Earth.
Simultaneously, the Moon revolves around the Earth in a lunar month
of 28 days — exactly like the hour hand, minute hand, and second
hand of a clock.
Each astrological sign has its own planetary ruler. And each
planet vibrates to a certain number.
9 is the number of the planet Mars, ruler of Aries.
6 is the number of the planet Venus, ruler of Taurus and Libra
(until the true ruler of Taurus, Pan-Horus, is discovered).
5 is the number of the planet Mercury, ruler of Gemini and Virgo
(until the true ruler of Virgo, Vulcan, is discovered).
7 is the number of the planet Neptune, ruler of Pisces.
8 is the number of the planet Saturn, ruler of Capricorn.
4 is the number of the planet Uranus, ruler of Aquarius.
3 is the number of the planet Jupiter, ruler of Sagittarius.
2 is the number of the Moon, ruler of Cancer.
1 is the number of the Sun, ruler of Leo.
(zero) is the powerful number of Pluto, ruler of Scorpio.
Remember I told you that all the star sign codes begin with the
planets. The vibratory frequency then continues in an unchanging
magnetic direction or pattern.

-- 234 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 171
******
It's very important for you to keep clearly in your mind, as you
read the following few pages referencing the "3-legged stool man," that
I am not referring to "evolutionary man" in the sense that the Dar-
winists and proponents of evolution interpret his origin and exis-
tence. The Darwin theory is partly correct and partly incorrect. Its
major flaw lies in the omission of a vital fact, which is the true
"missing link" in the chain they've tried to forge of the genesis of a
puzzle they've only dimly comprehended and tried to piece together
from the findings of geology and archeology, only the "bare bones of a
skeleton of truth," so to speak.'
They are correct in their assumptions of the various stages of
man's evolutionary process (but absolutely, incorrect regarding ani-
mals) — while omitting the most important piece of the puzzle: how
prehistoric man got that way. They seem to imply that the "cave man"
evolved from animals, leaving dangling the questions of where the
animals came from, and why they are still here. Can you handle an
amazing statement ? You haven't found the answers in anything writ-
ten in books by evolutionists, geologists, or archeologists, but you
don't need to because you know every detail of all the answers yourself.
You've only forgotten. The mission of this book and the two books
that will follow it is to teach you how to remember those answers.
The answers you already know but have forgotten (just as the
cave man forgot how to count) which will be given in future books —
will not contradict the Darwin theory, only enrich it and give it the
foundation it's always needed.
Meanwhile, allow me to remind you again that the 3-legged stool
man referred to within the next few pages refers to man after the fall
from innocence and wisdom. (If you possess the former, you auto-
matically possess the latter.)
Such a fall from grace has occurred, not once, but many times on

-- 235 of 676 --

171 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
this planet — and each time initiates an earth-cataclysm of such gigan-
tic and destructive proportions that only a few humans survive it,
scattered all over the world, separated, lonely, lost, and unable to
communicate with one another. In their desperate struggle for bare
survival (those who possess the survival instinct; others give up
quickly), and suffering also from mutation caused by cataclysm, they
develop a gradual amnesia of all former knowledge, and must slowly^
and painfully regain it. These fallen angels, these lost souls constitute
the so-called "cave man" of the paleolithic period.
For instance, each of the planets and constellations must be re-
discovered for the wisdom of astrology and astronomy to be recap-
tured. Likewise with the wisdom of numbers. The numerical system
of both numerology and third-dimensional mathematics must each
time be rediscovered and relearned (as with the 3-legged stool man
illustration below.)
Then the process of what is called evolution begins, described by
the evolution proponents with much accuracy. Along with it comes
the process of relearning and remembering LOVE, a word that seems
to arouse contempt in historians, geologists, and archaeologists, who
ignore as meaningless the fact that the word LOVE is contained within
"
the word EVOLUTION. They won't even discuss the matter, believing
it to be a mere coincidence, therefore remaining blind to its urgent
message. (See Chapter 8.) Love does not hide within evolution coin-
cidently, but wisely and truly so — as an eternal star sign code.
Evolution progresses at different speeds in different ways in vari-
ous parts of the planet geographically. One clue: the word "Incan,"
related to the ancient Incans, means "the lost ones." Another clue: the
"creature" known as Sasquatch, or Bigfoot, is far more than what most
people define as a creature. And by the way, the word CREATURE
contains the word CREATE. Why don't you spend some time won-
dering why ? A prediction and a promise for tomorrow: Very soon
now, a Lion will uncover many of the secrets of Bigfoot, an event
foretold by the decoding of the mystery of the Egyptian Sphinx, the

-- 236 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 173
man-lion guarding the Great Pyramid of Giza. And now, let's meet
our u 3-legged stool man."
1-2-3 are the first numbers "man" comprehended. He placed a
stick on the ground, representing himself — or the number 1. Then
he placed another stick on the ground, representing his mate. Now
he had the number 2 — or 2 sticks. He placed the tip of the 2 sticks
representing himself and his mate so that they touched at the top, and
were separated at the bottom, in a tentlike shape. After this, he placed
a third stick on the ground, horizontally across the bottom, represent-
ing the child, the total of the 3 sticks then forming a triangle, the
oldest known spiritual symbol: father — mother — and logos child.
Soon our slowly comprehending man drew a circle around the 3
sticks, to protect himself, his mate, and his child from outsiders or
evil. Then he stood the 3 sticks on end, contemplated the circle.
—
and the concept of the first 3-legged stool was born.
For ages, the number 7 has been regarded as the number of mys-
tery, representing the spiritual side of things — whereas the number 9,
the end, or the finality of the series upon which all our materialistic
calculations are built, has for an equal number of ages been regarded
as the number of electrical energy and all life upon this planet in a
material sense. The number represents power (which is why it's the
number of the planet, Pluto, ruler of Scorpio, since Pluto is the most
powerful of all the planets). Add to any number, and the more zeros
you add, the more "powerful" the number becomes. From 1 to 10 to
100 to 1,000 to 100,000 to 1,000,000, and so on. The number is
considered to be the number of Eternity (the Eternal Now ?) — the
serpent, eating its own tail. Positive energy feeding into negative en-

-- 237 of 676 --

174 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
ergy, resulting in a. third energy, which is both, yet neither, and all-
powerful.
It's most significant that Friedrich Kekule, who made the monu-
mental discovery of the benzine ring structure, which paved the way
for the theoretical aspect of organic chemistry, said that he dreamed
repeatedly of "a snake eating its own tail," shortly before the concept
occurred to him. His Higher Self was sending him a Morse Code
message.
The number 1 is the first number comprehended by our 3-legged
stool man. It represents, according to the ancients, the First Cause,
the Creator, or God, call it what you like.
When you take the number 1 and add the symbol of Eternity —
— in a figure representing 1,000,000 or more, then divide it by the
mystical number 7 (representing the spiritual side of things) — you
get the number 142857, which has been called, from the beginning of
time, the "sacred number." For example:
7 I 1,000,000
142857
Add as many zeros as you like, and keep dividing by 7 through
all of eternity, and you will always get repetitions of the same sacred
number. Why is this a "sacred number" ? Because these numbers,
when added together, equal the double number 27, and when you
add the 2 and the 7 of 27, you end up with 9 — the number of
electrical energy and all material life on this planet. This is also what
is referred to in the Bible (never mind those satanic implications in
horror films that try to scare you) in the statement the "666 is the
.
number of man and the number of beast." Of course it is. 666 adds
to 18 and 18 adds to 9, which is the number of all life on Earth.
1 + 4 + 2 + 8 + 5 + 7 = 27 = 9. Sacred Number of Eternity.
Now, just think of that ! When you take the number of the First

-- 238 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 175
Cause, or the Creator — 1 — then add the zeros — — of Power, and
divide by 7, the number of mystery and the Spiritual side of things —
you get the sacred number 142857, which, when added, then pro-
duces the number 9 — material Life. That's the whole story of exis-
tence, riest-ce pas 1
Why is 7 the number of mystery relating to spiritual matters ?
First, take the seven days of Creation, as symbolically referred to in
Genesis — and the Seventh Heaven referred to several times in the
Holy Works. The seven churches — the seven thrones — the seven
Seals — the seven-day march around the walls of Jericho — and on
the 7th day, the walls fell down, when Joshua blew the right note on
his Ram's horn. There are 7 generations from the birth of David to the
birth of Jesus in Bethlehem ("who shall be born of the House of
David").
Ezekiel speaks of "the seven angels of the Lord that go to and fro
through the whole Earth," which is believed by metaphysicians to
refer to the magnetic power points which radiate through the Earth,
and could be the basis for Nikola Tesla's magnetic fields in the Earth,
upon which he based his discovery of alternating current. This myste-
rious power is also spoken of in the Book of Revelation as "the seven
spirits of God sent forth into all the Earth." And . . . look at all these
additional repeats of the spiritual number 7:
The seven spirits of the Egyptian religion.
The seven Angels of the Chaldeans.
The seven Devas of the Hindu religion.
The seven Sephiroth of the Hebrew Kabala.
The seven Amschaspands of the Persian faith.
The seven Archangels of Revelation . . . and on and on . . .
In every religion, the number 7 symbolizes the mysterious "God
Force," or spiritual power. It's inescapable. Remember, the number
of the planet Neptune, ruler of Pisces, the Fish, is 7. The Fish was the
symbol of Christianity during the time of Jesus, who was born during
the Age of Pisces (the previous Age to this Aquarian Age). The mira-

-- 239 of 676 --

176 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
cles performed by the Nazarene were all Neptunian, mysterious and
spiritual in essence. (Just a preliminary touch of Lexigrams here —
when you take the word "essence," and remove the "c" for Christ, the
word you have left is Essene. It was among the Essenes up in the
mountains where Jesus spent many of his "lost years," learning numer-
ology and astrology, among other studies.)
It was probably the Essenes who first discovered what the Chal-
deans and Hindus also knew: that the number 7 is the only number
capable of dividing the number of Eternity — of continuing itself as long
as the number representing Eternity lasts, and yet, at every addition of
itself, produces the number 9, the basis of all material calculations,
and the entire edifice upon which human life depends and human
thought finds expression. Even stranger, astronomers are puzzled by
the seven-day week, first conceived in the Book of Genesis, because
the period of 7 days doesn't fit precisely into either months or seasons
of the year. It is said to be "a number man would not naturally
adopt."
The material number 9 fascinates me personally even more than
the magical facets of the spiritual number 7, mostly, I guess, because
it's the number of my favorite planet, Mars — ruler of my Aries sun
sign. The number 9 can do even more "magic tricks" than the number
7 in proving itself to be the number of electrical energy, the Alpha and
the Omega (beginning and end of everything) — and of all human life
on Earth, on the material plane of existence. Let's put 9 through its
tricks.
To begin with, when you add together all the numbers in our j
numerical system .. .1 + 2 + 3 + 4- +5 + 6 + 7 + 8 + 9...'
you get the number 45, which, when you add the 4 and 5, becomes
nine. There's no escaping or denying it. In this Third Dimension we
live within on our present level of evolvement, 9 is the Big Boss.
The number 9 cannot be destroyed, no matter how many times
you multiply it or add it to its own multiple, and this is true of no other j

-- 240 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS it 111
number. 2 times 9 equals 18, which adds to 9. 3 times 9 is 27, which
adds to 9. 4 times 9 is 36, which adds to (or reduces to) the single
number. 9 — and so on, into infinity. To repeat, 9 cannot be destroyed
— and neither can the human life it represents be destroyed.
We have the 9-day prayers of the Novenas in the Catholic
Church. In Freemasonry (based on astrology) there is the Order of
the 9 Elected Knights, and in the working of this order 9 roses — 9
lights and 9 knocks must be used.
A Great Sidereal Year is 25,920 years. When added, these figures
become 18, which reduces to the single number 9. The Sidereal Year
is closely related to the Precession of the Equinoxes: the length of time
it takes for all the planets to return to their original positions and
relationships to each other. It takes 72 years to complete one degree
of this equinoctical precession. 7-1-2 equal 9. Any number of de-
grees of equinoctical precession equate to 9. Two degrees, for in-
stance, take 144 years —: three degrees take 216 years — five degrees
take 360 years — ten degrees take 720 years — and so on. All of
which add to or reduce to 9. This is no accident or coincidence. It's
part of the synchronized harmony of the Universe.
John Nelson, former head of RCA Laboratories in New York, used
astrology to calculate weather conditions for RCA. He told me he had
discovered that when two planets are "square" to each other in a par-
ticular latitude/longitude, a thunderstorm occurs. In astrology, in a
human horoscope, a square is an aspect of "tension" — and planets
"square" each other when they are exactly 90 degrees apart. 9 again.
(Remember that this isn't necessarily negative, because thunderstorms
"clear the air" in a most refreshing way.)
Government cycle researchers and experts have observed' that
important changes, with sweeping worldwide implications, occur
every 180 years on Earth. 14-8 + equal 9. The 360 degrees of
the astrological circle (or any circle of life) add to 9. It takes 9 months
of gestation to produce the birth of a child. There are 86,400 seconds

-- 241 of 676 --

178 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
in a day, adding to 18 and reducing to 9. There are 24 hours in a day,
and when the 2 and 4 are added, you get 6, which is an upside down
9, a vital point, as we shall soon see.
The human mean normal respiration rate is 18 times a minute, and 1
+ 8 equal 9.
The mean normal heartbeat or pulse rate is 72 times a minute. 7-1-2
equal 9.
The average number of heartbeats per hour is 4,320 — 9 again.
The average number of respirations per hour is 1,080 — 9 again.
In 24 hours, your heart beats an average of 103,680 times — equaling
9.
In the same 24-hour period, respiration occurs an average of 25,920
times — exactly the same number oj times as there are years to a Great
Sidereal Year !
Is it any wonder that the Scriptures tell us 666 (9) is the
number of man and beast ?
In astrology, the harmonious aspects or angles formed between
the planets are 30 degrees — 60 degrees — and 120 degrees. These
add (or reduce) to the single number of either the harmonious 6 or 3.
Whereas, the disharmonious or tense aspects or angles formed between
the planets are 45 degrees — 90 degrees — and 180 degrees — all of
which equal 9. This indicates the importance and desirability of at-
tempting to rise above the Third Dimensional Awareness of Time and
its stresses (9) into a happier, more harmonious state of being. (6).
As I said, mdre soon about the urgent connection between the num-
bers 9, 6 and 3.
Mystics claim (and there's convincing scientific evidence) that all
measurements, (inside and out) of the mysterious and enigmatic Great
Pyramid of Giza (built by Osiris, not Cheops, and millions of years
earlier than now believed) — before Cheops and Time itself changed
the measurements — each added to a multiple number which, when
added, then reduced, equaled the single number 9. 9 is called the Red
Dragon in alchemy.

-- 242 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 179
The Novendiale (9) was a Fast held in the early Roman Catholic
Church to avert or prevent catastrophes and calamities (Earth cata-
clysms) of all kinds, and from this ceremony came the modern day
Catholic practice of Novenas, the prayer services lasting for 9 nights as
I mentioned earlier.
On the 9th day, the Romans buried their dead. Both the First
and the Second Temple of the Jews were destroyed on the 9th day of
the month the Jewish people call Ab. (Remember that the number 9,
from antiquity, has symbolized the Alpha and the Omega, the Begin-
ning and the End.) Today, the Jews who follow the ancient orthodox
Hebrew religion may not wear the Talith and Phylacteries until the
Sun has set on the 9th day of Ab. The earliest Hebrew writings say that
u
God" descended to the Earth, walked among humans and talked with
them — 9 times.
All these examples of the vibrations of the number 9 should give
you plenty of food for thought, a veritable numerological banquet for
; an esoteric gourmet. But to truly understand, to fully comprehend
the number 9, you must first penetrate the meaning of the numbers 6
and 3, their relationship to one another — and to the number 9.
9 is the number of Mars — aggression — penetration — Man. 6
is the number of Venus — love — compassionate passivity — Woman.
(6 also rules money and other things, as 9 rules other things, too, but
now we're concerned only with the Male-Female vibrations of the 6
and 9.) And so . . .
The number 6 symbolizes Venus — Love — Woman.
The number 9 symbolizes Mars — Conflict — Man.
When the number 6 is added to the number 9, Conflict is de-
stroyed, and Love is victorious. Together, the 6 and 9 equal 15 — and
when the 1 and the 5 are added together — they equal 6 again.
Venus. Love. Love is all. In any confrontation between Venus and
Mars, Venus wins in the final outcome. It cannot be otherwise under
Universal Law.

-- 243 of 676 --

180 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
This is surely a most reassuring cosmic code message from our
Creators.
Here are a few more mysteries hidden within the numbers 6 and
9. We just saw what happens when these two numbers are added
together. 6 is victorious. Now let's place them together, side by side,
noting that each number is the other, turned upside down, and mirror
reversed.
69
When 6 and 9 are side by side, they form the astrological symbol
for the sign of Cancer, representing parenthood.
Cancer:
©
The two circles of the symbol of Cancer, 6 and 9, represent the
mother's breasts. The total form of each of these two numbers reflects
the form and general shape of spermatozoa. ® Quite logical, when
you think that the numbers reflecting the female breasts and the male
spermatozoa, both intimately connected with childbirth, are the num-
bers representing the two creators of new life: the woman and the
man. Equally logical is that the number of Cancer is 2.
The astrological sign of Cancer is ruled by the Moon. Our first
Moon landing took place in July, the month of Cancer. The year was
1969, which contains, of course, in the last two digits, the 6 and the
9. Such serendipitous synchronicity !
So, as we now see, 9 is 6 re-versed, and 6 is 9 re-versed.
Translated, this means that 9 is a new verse of 6, and 6 is a new verse of
9. A "new verse" (new poem or new musical sound) is always created
when anything at all is re- versed. There's a little woman in every man,
and a little man in every woman. Therefore, it's not wrong, but per-

-- 244 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 181
fectly hatural, for a man to be sensitive — and for a woman to be
courageous.
The Compound number 15, which is reached by adding together
the 9 (man) and the 6 (woman), is called by the ancients "the number
of magic and mystery." And indeed it is.
Magic and mystery . . . yes. When man and woman unite in love
that's magic ! When their mutual love leads into a sexual union be-
tween them, mental, spiritual, and physical ecstasy is achieved, new
life is conceived . . . and that's mystery !
The number 6 and its "half number," 3 (representing Jupiter, the
planet of religion and ruler of Sagittarius), are an integral mathe-
matical part of the Nine Mystery — the third-dimensional concept —
with 9 equaled by 3 times 3 — 6 equaled by 3 plus 3 — and 9 equaled
by 3 plus 6.
Jesus was found in the Synagogue discussing deep esoteric mat-
ters with the High Priests and Rabbis when he was 12 years old. 12
reduces to the number 3. He began his ministry and teaching at the
age of 30 — another 3. He was crucified at the age of 33, reducing to
6, which is the reversed 9. He suffered on the cross for 3 hours. At
the 9th hour he was pronounced dead. On the 3rd day he arose.
Only when Earthlings learn to re-verse (employ a new musical
sound) the material number 9, by transforming it into its harmonious
polarity number of 6, will there truly he Peace on Earth. For, it bears
frequent repeating that 6 is the number of Venus and Love . . . and
Love is All.
I've already shown you the magic tricks number 9 can do, and
the number 6, the re- versed 9, is capable of equally magical behavior.
But before I prove it to you, let's consider the total Nine Mystery.
The Nine Mystery, composed of only three numbers, 3 - 6 - 9, is
the deepest of all mysteries demonstrated by mathematics (the calcula-
tion) and proven by numerology (the interpretation).

-- 245 of 676 --

182 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
Remember our 3-legged stool man who discovered the numbers
1 - 2 - 3 . . . then the (zero) ? What he didn't suspect was that those
numbers alone: 1-2-3 and summarize our entire Three Dimen-
sional World. (The Fourth Dimensional World of the Eternal Now is
another matter.)
Now, imagine our 3-legged stool man from the beginning, when
he first placed a single stick on the ground to represent himself, con-
ceiving the number 1 (Original Cause or Creator) . . . then added a
second stick to represent his mate, conceiving the number 2. . . . then
added a third stick horizontally, to represent the child, conceiving the
number 3, the 3 sticks then forming a triangle, the oldest known sym-
bol of all religions . . . and finally conceptualized the number 0, by
drawing a circle around the 3 sticks on the ground, to protect himself,
his mate, and his child from harm. Now meditate on this drawing for
a moment . . .
Code: 1-2-3-0
I meditated on it one night during my Cripple Creek retreat as I
fell asleep. When I awoke the next morning, I scribbled some notes
on the pad beside my bed . . . and a few days later, I began to draw the
numbers and the letters of the alphabet, and made what was, to me at
least, a profound discovery. Doubtless all mathematicians are aware
of it, and most certainly "Abstract Al" Einstein was — but it was news
to me, and so illuminating, 1 felt like Christopher Columbus proving

-- 246 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 183
he world was round ! Here's my enlightenment: Each number,
through 9 — and each letter of the Anglo-Saxon alphabet, from A
through Z — was born from — or may be "transmuted into — the
triangle or the circle. In fact, everything in our Third Dimensional
awareness, when reduced to its primary base, including the rectangle,
octagon, pentagon, hexagram, and so on — can be coded as the Uni-
versal key of 1 - 2 - 3 - or:
AO @
Isn't that exciting ? It spirals my thoughts upward into all kinds
of mysteries of existence. Ill just draw 3 numbers for you, as exam-
ples — and 3 letters of the alphabet. You can do the rest yourself, like
a puzzle. It's fun !
8 # <b g 8 \
It makes you wonder what symbols would be like in the Fourth
Dimensional awareness. I used to meditate a lot on the fact that we
are three dimensional objects, and when the Light (the Sun) shines
"through" us, we cast a two dimensional shadow. Therefore, could
there not be a fourth dimensional Self, with an even brighter Light than
our Sun causing it to cast the "shadows" of a third dimensional you and
me ? And . . . perhaps also fifth dimensional beings, casting the
"shadows" of our Fourth Dimensional Selves . . . and so on, up the line
. . . and even beyond ... in higher levels, since we can count only to 9
in this Third Dimensional awareness.
What does the number above 9 look like ? The zero — — the
circle. There is no such thing as a straight line. Eventually, every

-- 247 of 676 --

184 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
Alpha (the beginning) meets its Omega (the end) — and joins it, form-
ing a circle. So, if you were high enough to "look down" on an al-
legedly straight line, you would see that there was no beginning and
no end to it after all: The Nazarene said, "J am the Alpha and the Omega"
The Beginning and the End are the same. Full serpent circle.
All of this relates to the Eternal Now, the Einsteinic discovery that
Past, Present, and Future are not separate slices of Time, but are all
One — and simultaneous. More about this in later chapters. For now,
let's return to the Universal Code.
Universal Code: 1-2-3-0 Add the numbers, and you get 6 — Love.
AO
1 + 2 + 3 + equals 6
Now, lets image the word LOVE. (Remember 6 = Venus = Love.)
Here's one of the magic tricks I told you number 6 can do — but
it's still part of the sacred Nine Mystery, as you will see.
The formula for our Third Dimensional Awareness is 1-2-3-0 . .
and this formula equals 6. Love. So, we'll take the Universal Code for
Love and combine its numbers or digits, then add them in columns.

-- 248 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 185
0-1-2-3 = Love Belc)w are all numen cal variations of Love.
0123 1032 2310 3210
0132 1023 2301 3201
0231 1320 2103 3102
0213 1302 2130 3120
0321 1203 2013 3012
0312 1230 2031 3021
1332 = 9 7110 = 9 12888 = 27 == 9 18666 = 27 =
Now, if you were adding columns of money, there would be a
vast difference between $1,332 and $18,666. But to the Universe, it's
i all nine. Note that there are 6 combinations in each column, and 24
multiple combinations (2 + 4 = 6) — and 96 digits in all columns (9
+ 6 = 15 = 6). There's no way to separate the strange connection
of the 3 - 6 and 9.
f
Multiplication of 3 - Multiplication of 6 Multiplication of 9
j
2x3= 6-6 2x6= 12-3 2x9= 18-9
! 3 x 3 = 9-9 3X6= 18-9 3x9 = 27 -9
4X3= 12-3 4X6 = 24 -6 4x9 = 36 -9
5x3= 15 - 6 5X6 = 30 -3 5x9 = 45 -9
6x3= 18 - 9 6X6 = 36 - 9 6x9 = 54 -9
7 x 3 = 21 - 3 7 x 6 = 42 - 6 7 x 9 = 63 - 9
8X3 = 24 - 6 8x6 = 48 -3 8x9 = 72 -9
9x3 = 27 - 9 9X6 = 54 -9 9x9 = 81 -9
Total 51 = 6 Total 48 = 12 = 3 Total 72 = 9
Notice that the number 3 repeats the vertical pattern of 6-9-3 . . .
6-9-3 (from top to bottom) and so on, no matter how many times it's
multiplied. And the number 6 repeats the pattern of 3-9-6 . . . 3-9-6
. . . and so on, no matter how many times it's multiplied. This is all
part of the Nine Mystery, and 3 and 6 are an integral part of it. As for
the 9 column, the pattern is another indestructible 9-9-9-9 vertically.

-- 249 of 676 --

186 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
I'm going to repeat myself now, for clarity. .
The number 6 symbolizes: Venus Love Woman 9
The number 9 symbolizes: Mars Conflict Man <3
As I've already demonstrated, these numbers of sexuality are
equally as much each other as they are themselves, because 9 turned
upside down is 6 — and 6 turned upside down is 9. So, 9 is a 6 re-
versed (a new verse) and 6 is a 9, re-versed.
Look again at the multiplication tables for the numbers 3 — 6 —
and 9, and their sequence patterns. Once again, the 3 sequence pat-
tern is 693-693-693, repeatedly. The 6 sequence pattern is
396-396-396. And, as we've already seen, with 9, it's always and
eternally 9. (I refer to the sequence pattern of numbers reading ver-
tically in the last column of each table.) Now, try it yourself, the same
multiplication test, with any 3 of the other numbers of your choice
besides these three. You'll find no numerical sequence pattern. Just
an unrelated group of numbers.
No other number, not even the spiritual 7, can perform such
multiplication magic as can be demonstrated with the 3 — 6 — and 9
of the Third Dimensional Nine Mystery. By the way, 3 plus 3 equal
6. 6 plus 6 equal 12 (which reduces to 3). . . likewise 3 plus 9. And 3
plus 6 equal 9. The 3, 6, and 9 cannot be divorced or separated in any
mathematical manner. And there are three of these mystery numbers.
Remember the 1-2-3-0 of the Universal Code, which is also three
numbers, plus the of increased power.
We're now agreed, I should think, that 9 is the King of the Num-
bers. Should you need further proof of the number nine's right to rule
all life and electrical energy on this planet, ponder this: 9 is the only
niimber capable of giving life to every other number, because, when 9
adds itself to each number, that number is not lost. 9 gives it back its
identity and its "life."

-- 250 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 187
9 plus 1 = 10 = 1 again . 9 plus 2 = 11 = 2 again 9 plus 3=12 = 3 again
9 plus 4 = 13 = 4 again 9 plus 5 = 14 = 5 again 9 plus 6 = 15 = 6 again
9 plus 7 = 16 = 7 again 9 plus 8=17 = 8 again
. No other number added to other numbers has this power.
******
One more number magic . . .another cosmic message for tomor-
row. Let's ponder again the demonstration that the number 9 (war,
conflict, and aggression) can never win a victory over the number 6
(love and peace) because, when you add the 6 and 9, you get 15 —
which, when adding the 1 and the 5 equals 6 again.
Next, let's add the conquering 6 to the spiritual number seven. 6
plus 7 adds to 13 — and the 1 plus the 3 of the 13 adds to the single
number 4. The number 4 is the number given to Uranus, the ruling
planet of Aquarius. Isn't that happy news about the future of this
"unpredictable" (except through numerology) Aquarian Age ? Love
(6) and spiritual enlightenment (7) will, during the Uranus-ruled (4)
Aquarian Age, in the final inning, defeat war, conflict, aggression, and
technology, no matter how they may appear to be losing the battle
j
during the times of testing. The Earth will not be destroyed by nuclear
insanity, nor by the Nature cataclysms it may be karmically destined
to endure. There may be extensive damage and tragedy, yes, if Earth-
lings don't halt their negative behavior in time — but in the final
analysis, love and peace will triumph !
It can be no other way, having been ordained by the inflexible
mathematical order of the Universe . . . and its harmonics. Therefore,
the cosmic numerical code to the future of the Aquarian Age unlocks
the key to a happy tomorrow, regardless of the fears of today. Pol-
lyanna would love it ! So would Abstract Al Einstein. I'll bet he knew
it years ago. Meditating the marvels of numbefs can cause your
thoughts to soar as if they had wings and could fly to the place where

-- 251 of 676 --

188 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
all mysteries are born ! So . . . sleep in peace tonight, and dream of
sixes and sevens.
******
All right, are you ready ? Our class in applied and practical nu-
merology is now in session, so you can learn how to use the unguessed
power of numbers in your personal life when you need a little extra .1
magic. First, there are certain rules you must know before we get into
the actual instructions for the calculating process itself.
Read that last sentence again slowly, will you please ? Thank
you !
I hope the lessons are fun. All lessons should be, but most of
them are boring because teachers forget the Socratic wisdom of learn-
ing, and the students sense it. That is, no one can teach you any-
thing. All an instructor can do is help you remember what you already
know. And so . . . learning is remembering.
I'm sure you'll recall what we learned a few pages back — that]
the word "memory" contains the two words "more" and "me." Mem-
ory equals "more me." More you. More everyone.
An echo of this wise Socratic method of instruction comes to us
down through the centuries from Diogenes, the eccentric Greek who
wandered around carrying a lantern, looking for a completely honest
man. (Do you suppose he might have had more luck if he had been I
looking among the feminine sex ? Sorry. I couldn't resist that female
chauvinist piglet bite!) Anyway, one morning while Diogenes was
walking down a dusty road on his weary quest, he met up with a very
bored Alexander the Great, who had already conquered most of the
known world by the time he was in his late teens — and the two of
them had a sort of rap session. Finally, Alexander, much impressed
with his new friend's intense and determined devotion to his goal,
asked Diogenes if there was anything he could do to help him:

-- 252 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 189
"Only stand out of my light," replied Diogenes.
That's what all teachers should try to do — stand out of their
students' "light," and allow them to slowly but surely regain the
knowledge buried in subconscious memory. That's why, with numer-
ology as our subject, I'm going to first give you the basic rules — next
give you the methods of calculating, plus some examples of how it's
done — and finally stand back and let you "remember" the fine tuning
of interpreting the definitions of the numbers, beginning on Page 226.
To begin with, you'll soon notice, when we've finished with the
rules and progressed to the how-to-do-it portion, that I'll be using the
word "entity" a lot. Let me explain what I mean by that term. Just as
in astrology, a Broadway play or musical, a corporation, a book — or
an event of any kind (wedding, purchase of a house, etc.), which is
"born" or consummated at a certain ^me> has a birth chart (horoscope)
as valid as the birth chart of a human baby (or animal) — likewise in
numerology do these foregoing "entities" possess, relative to their
name and the day they were "bom," representative Key Numbers, the
same as a person.
For example, consider the musical, My Fair Lady, Margaret
Mitchell's Gone with the Wind, the stock brokerage firm of Paine Web-
ber and other entities, such as your wedding day, the day you met a
particular person, etc. All these are "entities," with a representative
birth number (the day of incorporation — or of the event) and/or a
name number.
Before I demonstrate how to find your birth number and your
name number (both Single and Compound numbers), you must
memorize the following basic rules of numerology.
The double or Compound numbers 1 1 and 22 are called Master
Numbers. This means that when being added to another number, they,
may not be reduced — i.e.: the number 1 1 may not be added together
or reduced to the number 2, and the number 22 may not be added
together or reduced to the number 4. These two Master Numbers

-- 253 of 676 --

190 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
must always be added to other numbers in the numerology process as
1 1 and 22. Only when the total of the numerical value of the name is
1 1 or 22 may these numbers be added to produce the single 2 or 4 as
the Key Number of the name, arid only when a person was born on the
11th or 22nd may these numbers be reduced to 2 or 4 to equal the
single Key Number of birth. (I'lTgive you some examples of this
later.)
It's important to read the last two paragraphs regarding the Mas-
ter Numbers 11 and 22 more than once to be sure you completely
comprehend and don't ever forget this vital rule of numerology when
you begin to work out your own calculations.
A final reminder regarding the "things" represented by the word
"entity." When you're reading the single number and compound
number definitions representing an entity, you must read them with a
slightly different sense of interpretation than you would read them
when they represent a person. You'll begin to acquire a feeling for it
with practice. Certain statements in the definitions of the single and
compound numbers given later in this chapter are clearly describing a
person, not a "thing," but they also contain particular basic statements
made which apply to an entity. To master the art and science of nu-
merology yourself, you must learn to be adept in the technique of
intuitive interpretation, and gradually become facile in adapting the
seeds or the foundation of a definition or an analysis of a number to fit
the goals, motives, and general character or personality of the "entity"
you are trying to understand.
The Single numbers from 1 through 9 are called the root num-
bers, and they denote what the person or entity appears to be in the
eyes of others or the world. The double or Compound numbers indi-
cate the hidden karmic influences behind the scenes, so to speak, and
foreshadow the destiny of the individual or entity. However, when
that destiny is a negative one, I've given, in the compound number
definitions, the way in which these karmic currents can be controlled
and turned in a new and more fortunate direction. Always remember

-- 254 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 191
that you are, in the final analysis, in charge of your own fate, the
captain of your soul and destiny. When you apply certain disciplines,
you need not submit blindly to negative Karma, but will learn how to
dilute its effect through your actions — by understanding how to
balance the scales. (See Chapter 4.)
Once more, keep in mind the following:
Single numbers represent what a person or an entity appears to be in
the eyes of others. They are the numbers of individuality and
personality.
Compound or double numbers reveal or indicate the karmic influences,
and foreshadow the destiny of the person or the entity, which can be
controlled and eventually neutralized by heeding the advice given in
the definitions of these numbers. You'll find the definitions of both
the Single and the Compound numbers near the end of this chapter.
You won't need to read them until you've first learned how to calculate
your own numbers.
Another way of expressing the difference between the Single and
Compound numbers is that the Single numbers from 1 through 9
belong to the physical or material side of people and entities, while the
Compound numbers (double numbers) belong more to the spiritual
side of life, such as Karma. One might say that the astrological planets
and signs — and the numbers comprising numerology — are symbols
for the language of our Creators. As written at the beginning of this
chapter, "While the soul slumbers, God speaks to us in numbers."
When you've learned how to use numerology by obeying the
following instructions of calculation, you'll find it surprisingly prac-
tical. Not only will you discover more about yourself and others,
including the equally important "entities" in your life (book titles and
pub dates if you're a writer — film or play titles and opening dates if
you're a producer, and so forth) — but you'll be able to observe kar-
mic patterns — and be able to choose fortunate days for all important
meetings or events — the signing of documents — the initiation of

-- 255 of 676 --

192 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
trips and the like— and the favorable days for incorporating busi-
nesses, commencing new projects, etc. The fortunate numerological
dates should be particularly helpful and beneficial regarding legal mat-
ters, courtroom dates, and the like, for attorneys — and their clients,
when the selection of such dates is possible. Of course, there are
times when a choice is not possible, but when it is, it would be wise to
be guided by numerology in the manner you're about to learn — or
remember — and you'll discover that such knowledge is of inestima-
ble value. (Fortunate numerological dates generally coincide with the.
harmonious transits and progressed aspects of the horoscope.)
Now we're ready to learn (to remember) how to discover your
own Single and Compound Key Numbers, and those of other people
and entities.
Once again, here is the alphabet printed earlier in this chap-
ter, repeated for your convenience. Study it as you practice your own
calculations.
Alphabet
A = 1 N = 5
B = 2 = 7
C = 3 P = 8
D = 4 Q = l
E = 5 R= 2
F = 8 S = 3
G = 3 T = 4
H = 5 U = 6
I = 1 V = 6

-- 256 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 193
J-l •
W = 6
K = 2 X = 5
L = 3 Y = 1
M = 4 Z = 7
You've probably noticed that there is no letter equaling the num-
ber 9. The accepted explanation for this, passed down orally through
the centuries, is that, in the most secret esoteric orders, it has been
said that the number 9 is synonymous with the "mystery name" of the
Supreme Power over life, which has 9 letters; therefore, it may not
have a single letter of the alphabet representing it. I accept this rea-
son, since I don't possess the knowledge to refute it, and because the
system works without the 9 being used as a value for a single letter of
the alphabet.
However, if the single number of the name of the person or the
entity being analyzed is 9 — or if the single birth number of the person
or entity is computed to be a 9, by being born on the 9th, 18th, or
27th day of the month, then the meaning for the Single number 9
given in the Single number definitions on Page 244 should be used.
Examples
Let's begin with two interesting and well-known people: Abra-
ham Lincoln and Jesus of Nazareth.
Study these examples carefully. Notice that below each letter in
the name is the numerical value of that letter. These numbers are then
added across, horizontally, to reach a Compound number, which is
totaled below, then reduced to a Single number. (See Abraham.) Do
the same with each separate name (or word, with an entity). Finally,
add the Single numbers of each name (or word) to reach the final Key
Numbers. Note how this is done in the following example.
After you have calculated the Compound Key Number of the

-- 257 of 676 --

194 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
name (or title or phrase or whatever) — add the two numbers of the
Compound Key Number to arrive at the Single Key Number. If you'll
carefully study the Abraham Lincoln example, it should be clear.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN Born February 12th
1 + 2 = 3
Compound Key Number of birth is 12
Single Key Number of birth is 3
ABRAHAM LINCOLN
1221514 3153735 74-9= 16
Total: 16 = 7 Total: 27 = 9 1 + 6 = 7
Compound Key Number of name is 16
Single Key Number of name is 7
Therefore, Abraham Lincoln's Key Numbers are 12 and 3 (birth
numbers) — and 16 and 7 (name numbers). 12 - 16 - 3 - 7,
Don't move on past the Abraham Lincoln example until you are
quite sure that you understand how the final four Key Numbers were
calculated, whether it takes five minutes to completely comprehend
these steps — or two hours. Don't read further until each step is clear
to you. /
Do you see how each of Lincoln's four Key Numbers was
reached ? Are you sure ? All right, then we can move on to a partial
definition of these numbers representing Abraham Lincoln.
Let's take the Key Numbers of the name first — the Single 7 and
the Compound 16.
When you read the definition of the Single Number 7 in the
definition pages near the end of this chapter, you'll see that it fits the
personality and character of our Civil War President perfectly — how
he appeared to others.
.

-- 258 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 195
The 7 definition (given near the end of this chapter) tells you that
Lincoln "had remarkable dreams." That he possessed "a calming and
quieting magnetism which had a great influence over others" — that
he "disliked following the beaten path and had peculiar ideas about
religion and unique, unorthodox political views." It tells you that
Lincoln "cared little about material possessions" — and that he blessed
others with his "sympathetic understanding of pain and suffering."
Also that others often "unburdened their troubles and problems" to
him. The Single Number 7 analysis tells you that Lincoln was "not
judgmental or prejudiced," that he was "tolerant of the views of oth-
ers." This sums up the man's personality with accuracy, does it not ?
Abraham Lincoln's Compound Key Number of his name is 16.
Among other revelations, this karmic number is symbolized as the
Shattered Citadel — a "Tower struck by Lightning, from which a man
is falling, with a Crown on his head. A strange fatality awaits one —
the defeat of one's plans is threatened." All this clearly fits President
Lincoln. The complete analysis of the Compound Number 16 near
the end of this chapter also contains the method by which Lincoln
could have avoided the negative karmic destiny of the 16, or greatly
diluted it — but he did not. The 16 analysis explains in what manner
he chose not to avoid or neutralize his Karma. (For one thing, he did
not heed his warning dreams.)
»
Also contained in the definition of Lincoln's Single Key Number 7
(of his name) is the warning not to wear black or dark colors, and, of
course, this is the only color ever worn by Lincoln — his black frock
coats, black trousers,1and .black stovepipe hat (which was the custom
of the day) although others relieved the black occasionally with other
colors in their personal lives, at home, and such. Lincoln did not.
Moving from the Key name numbers (single and compound) of
Abraham Lincoln, let's study his birth numbers. People born on a day
of the month consisting of a Single number, do not have a Compound
birth number, only a Single birth number. But those born on a day of

-- 259 of 676 --

196 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
the month consisting of a double number, have both a Single and a
Compound birth number. Lincoln is one of the latter.
Lincoln's day of birth is February 12th. Therefore, the Compound
Key Number of his birth is 12 — and the Single Key Number of his
birth is 3, adding the 1 and the 2 of the 12.
When you read the meaning of the Single Number 3 and the
Compound Number 12 in the Single and Compound Number defini-
tions, beginning on Page 230 and Page 251, you'll get an even clearer
picture of the man. Read the entire analysis of the 3 and the 12 for a
full picture. In part, the meaning of 3 is a person who bases every
action upon a "great ideal" — and who is "shockingly blunt of
speech." 3 people are challenged by "tests of physical strength." Lin-
coln entered into several such tests of strength in his youth — and
then, too, we have Lincoln, the rail splitter, who beat all comers in
contests of log chopping — and Indian arm wrestling. The 3 analysis
describes a person who is an odd blend of "the wise philosopher and
the happy-go-lucky clown." An apt description of Lincoln. The 3
definition also reveals that these people are "crushed when denied the
higher halls of learning." Think of Lincoln, who had practically no.
formal schooling, and was crushed by this lack. But he didn't allow it
to defeat him. He set about to study law on his own, under great
hardship, and became the most brilliant lawyer of his time— an ex-
cellent example for anyone who shares Lincoln's Single Key Number
3. (3 people are intensely determined to obtain higher education, and I
therefore, usually do, but are more deeply disappointed than others
when it's denied.)
Abraham Lincoln was an Aquarian. You will see in the enclosed
analysis of the Single Number 3 that this number is harmonious with
his Aquarian Sun Sign.
As for his Compound birth number of 12, study the definition of
the Number 12, and you'll learn much more about Lincoln. A partial
glimpse of its meaning is: "The Sacrifice or the Victim — one who is

-- 260 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS • 197
sacrificed for the plans. and intrigues of others." Anyone who has
studied American history, and is familiar with the vast amount of po-
litical intrigue and deception surrounding his Presidency will quickly
see how appropriate this is.
Study this brief sample analysis of Abraham Lincoln's birth
numbers and name numbers carefully until you completely compre-
hend them, because it's the very best way' to learn all the nuances of
calculating the Key Numbers of the person or entity you're personally
interested in analyzing, especially yourself.
Jesus Christ . . . Jesus of Nazareth
This name is one of the most revealing I've ever calculated, and
the strangest. We've already seen the mysterious link between the
numbers 3, 6, and 9. Further, this mystical relationship of the num-
bers 3, 6, and 9 assumes great importance in its association with the
Single and Compound Key Numbers of the Nazarene's name.
The child Jesus was found in the Temple discussing profound
spiritual matters with the Rabbis at the age of 12, which adds to 3. He
began his mission of wandering ministry at the age of 30. Another 3.
He was crucified at the age of 33, adding to 6, which is the reversed 9.
He suffered on the cross for 3 hours. At the 9th hour he was pro-
nounced dead. On the 3rd day he arose. Bringing in the 9 vibration
again, there were 18 "lost years," during which time the activities of

-- 261 of 676 --

198 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
Jesus are unrecorded in the "modern" Scriptures, and 18 adds up to
9. His life was repeatedly locked into the mystery of the three num-
bers 3 - 6 and 9 I wrote about before. And, as I've already pointed
out, adding the 3, 6, and 9 equals 18, which adds or reduces to 9 once
again. 9 is the number of Beginnings and Endings. "I am the Alpha
and the Omega." Now let's calculate the Key Numbers of his name,
and you'll discover even more mystery.
JESUS CHRIST
15363 352134* 9 plus 9 equals 18
Total: 18 = 9 Total: 18 = 9 18 = 9
It's odd xhat the name Jesus equals the compound number 18
and the single number 9 — and the name Christ has exactly the same
value. But even stranger, let's evaluate the numerical value of the three
words so frequently used to identify him: Jesus of Nazareth.
JESUS OF NAZARETH
15363 7 8 51712545
Total: 18 = 9 Total: 15 = 6 Total: 30 = 3
9 plus 6 plus 3 equal 18 Compound Key Number: 18
18 = 9 Single Key Number: 9
An amazing synchronicity of vibratory influence ! These three
words, so often used to describe the man born in Bethlehem, equal,
respectively, the mysteriously linked numbers 9, 6, and 3. When
added, they equal 18 again, which reduces once more to 9, making
the Key Numbers for this three-word description the single 9 and the
compound 18, exactly the same numerical value as the word JESUS —
the word CHRIST — and the two-word name JESUS CHRIST
It was clearly impossible for him to avoid the Compound number

-- 262 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 199
18 as his destiny, nor did he make any attempt to escape it, as an
ordinary man with equal esoteric knowledge would be inclined to do.
Neither could he escape (with so many repetitions) the Single number
9 — the Alpha and the Omega. The entire life destiny of Jesus is
contained in the influence of the 3, 6, and 9 — and the compound 18.
When you read the full meaning of the Number 18 in the Com-
pound number definitions that begin on Page 249, you'll see a strange
symbolism which, when you use your esoteric imagination, closely
describes (in code) the scene on Calvary with the Roman Centurions
casting dice at the feet of the crucified Messiah, for the prize of his
robe. Essentially, the Compound Number 18 indicates "materialism
striving to destroy the spiritual side of the nature." It represents a
person who is "associated with uprisings and revolutions" — plus
"deception from both friends and enemies." Rather an accurate cap-
sule summary of the drama of his mission, and the purpose behind it,
wouldn't you say ?
* * * * * *
Now let's use an American film star, Robert Redford, and calcu-
late the Key Numbers of his name, to demonstrate the importance of
the rule of not reducing the Master Numbers 1 1 and 22, when adding
them to other numbers.
ROBERT REDFORD
2/'2524 .2548724 22 plus 5 equals 11
Total: 22 = 22 Total: 32 = 5 27 = 9
You should, have learned enough now to see that the Single Key
Number for the name of Robert Redford is 9 — and the Compound
Key Number is 27. . The definition, in part, of the Number 27 is that
"the creative faculties have sown good seeds, which will reap a fine
harvest." The rest of this definition equally fits Robert Redford — but

-- 263 of 676 --

200 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
if you had reduced the 22 of Robert to a 4, then added it to the Redford
number 5, you would still get the correct Single Key Number of 9 —
but you would have missed the most important influence in his life,
that of the Compound Number 27.
Remember that you may reduce the Master Numbers 11 and 22
only when they are Key Numbers, and must be added or reduced to
obtain the final Single Key Number of the name or the day of birth. In
other words, to repeat what I wrote 'earlier, if the Compound Key
Number of the name is 1 1 or 22 (after having added the single num-
bers of the several names), the 11 or 22 may then be reduced to the 2
or 4 to create the Single Key Number. Likewise, if a person is born on
the 11th or 22nd day of the month, then the 11 or 22 is the Com-
pound Key Number of the birth — and to obtain the Single Key Num-
ber of the birth, you may add the 1 1 to obtain the single 2 or the 22 to
obtain the single 4. The only time you may not reduce these two
Master Numbers is when they are being added as separate parts of a
several word name or entity, such as in the Robert Redford example I
just demonstrated. Study it again. Study it until you fully compre-
hend the rule about 11 and 22.
Now, I've been "standing in your light" enough, so I'm going to
help you by demonstrating a few more examples of people and entities
— that is, demonstrating the system of calculating the Key Numbers,
as 1 did with Robert Redford, Abraham Lincoln, and Jesus (not neces-
sarily in that order !) — but I'm not going to give you any hints as to
the interpretations of the Key Numbers. You should be able to handle
that yourself by this time, when you study the Single and Compound
number definitions beginning on Page 225 and Page 249.
Remember that when you're trying to analyze a person, the en-
closed definitions are self-explanatory — but when you're analyzing
an entity, you have to intuitively "pick up" what is given in the defini-
tions that applies more specifically to an entity rather than to a per-
son. You're going to learn (remember) how to "read between the
lines" in a metaphysical sense, and condense the "person" definitions

-- 264 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 201
so that they more briefly and clearly describe a "thing" — an event or
an entity.
First, well try a few more people. Then the entities. By the time
you're through studying these calculations — and then the definitions
of the Key Numbers of these further examples, you'll be ready to begin
penetrating the mysteries of your own name, the names of friends and
relatives — and your own special entities (corporate structures, books,
plays, special dates and events, and so on).
ELIZABETH TAYLOR Born: February 27th
2 plus 7 equals 9
Single Key Number of birth: 9
Compound Key Number of birth: 27
Now, let's calculate the Single and Compound Key Numbers of
Elizabeth's name.
ELIZABETH TAYLOR
5 3 17 12 5 4 5 4^1 13 7 2
Total: 33 = 6 Total: 18 = 9 6 plus 9 equals 15
1 plus 5 equals 6
Single Key Number of name: 6
Compound Key Number of name: 15
And so, Elizabeth's four Key Numbers (for birth and name) are:
the single 9 and the single 6 — the compound 27 and the compound
15. Remember that the Single numbers of both the birth and the name
describe the personality and character of the person or entity, as they
appear to others — and the Compound numbers of both the birth and
the name represent the karmic path of destiny, what is hidden or
buried.

-- 265 of 676 --

202 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
Therefore, Elizabeth's four Key Numbers are 9, 27, 6, and 15.
The 9 and the 6 describe her personality and outward behavior. The
15 and the 27 represent her hidden karmic destiny. I can't resist
making one comment, although I've promised not to help from now
on with the definitions. Elizabeth, being a Pisces, I've always won-
dered about her occasional flashes or outbursts of impulsive action. 9
being her Single birth number answers that puzzlement once and for-
all. (You'll notice, when reading the enclosed Single Number defini-
tions, that they give you a way to compare the person's Sun Sign with
his or her single number — or numbers.)
Let's try two more well-known names. This reminds me of the
old vaudeville joke you've probably heard about the out-of-towner
who was lost in New York, and asked an Italian pushcart peddler how
to get to Carnegie Hall. The man threw his hands in the air and cried
out, "Practice, practice, practice /" There's a moral in that joke. I'm
giving you all these examples so you can practice, practice, practice —
which is the only way, not only to eventually be good enough tQ play a
concert in Carnegie Hall, but to master the ancient art and science of
numerology. Another American film star.
JANE FONDA Bom: December 21st
2 plus 1 equals 3
Single Key Number of birth: 3
Compound Key Number of birth: 21
JANE FONDA
115 5 8 7 5 4 1 3 plus 7 equals 10
Total: 12 = 3 Total: 25 = 7 10 equals 1
Single Key Number of name: 1
Compound Key Number of name: 10
Jane Fonda's four Key Numbers are 1, 3, 10, and 21. (Look up

-- 266 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 203
the meanings.) The Single Key Numbers of 1 and 3 describe the per-
sonality and character of Jane as she appears to be to others — and the
compound Key Numbers of 10 and 21 represent her karmic destiny
path, what is hidden or buried.
SAMUEL CLEMENS Born: November 30
3 plus equals 3
Single Key Number of birth: 3
Compound Key Number of birth: 30
SAMUEL CLEMENS
314653 3354553 22 plus 1 equals 23
Total: 22 = 22 Total: 28 = 10 = 1 2 plus 3 equals 5
Single Key Number of name: 5
Compound Key Number of name: 23
And so, the Key Numbers of Samuel Clemens are 3, 5, 23, and
30. (Look up the meanings which apply.)
However, author Samuel Clemens changed his name to Mark
Twain. In so doing, he didn't much improve his vibrations — the 23
is a fine number for success — although he may have become,
through the change, somewhat more gregarious, and less a "hermit"
than the Number 30 allowed. Still, the change to Mark Twain
brought one distinct advantage — the acquisition of the Compound
Number 17, which (as ydu'll see in the enclosed definitions)
.guaranteed that his name would live after him.
MARK T WA I N
4 12 2 4 6 115 9 plus 8 equals 17
Total: 9 Total: 17 = 8 1 plus 7 equals 8
Single Key Number of name: 8
Compound Key Number of name: 17

-- 267 of 676 --

204 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
You'll also notice, when you look up the definitions of these
numbers, that Samuel Clemens also gave himself a goodly helping of
self-discipline when his new name, Mark Twain, influenced him with
the Single Number 8, but also added, unfortunately, the sadness and
depression of the 8, along with its wealth vibrations.
Jane Fonda is a Sagittarian. So was Samuel Clemens aka Mark
Twain. Both of these. Archers are influenced by the Single Number 3.
In their cases, the 3 has a double influence, since 3 is the number of the
planet Jupiter, and Jupiter is the ruler of Sagittarius.
Next, let's try some "entities." We've had enough examples of
people.
gone" WITH THE WIND
3755 614 5 45 5 6154
Total: 20 = 2 Total: 16 = 7 Total: 14 = 5 Total: 16 = 7
2 plus 7 plus 5 plus 7 equals 21
Compound Key Number of Title: 21 Single Key Number of Title: 3
Look up the Key Numbers for this American classic novel and
motion picture about the Old South, and see how perfectly they fit. In
particular, the first paragraph of the meaning of 21.
Now an immensely popular and successful Broadway musical
and motion picture. •
M Y FAIR LADY
4 1 8 112 3 14 1 5 plus 3 plus 9
equals 17
Total: 5 Total 12 = 3 Total: 9
Compound Key Number of Title: 17 Single Key Number of Title: 8

-- 268 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 205
You'll notice as you become adept in numerology that in inter-
preting an entity, such as Gone with the Wind and My Fair Lady, the
Compound Key Number is often more descriptive and revealing than
the Single Key Number. The Single numbers of the birth and/or
name of entities are also valid, but sometimes it takes a little intuitive
work to apply them, since entities possess multiple facets not known
to the general public The Compound Key Numbers, however, will
reveal the path of destiny of the entity.
Another entity example is the stock brokerage house of . . .
PAINE WEBBER
81155 652252 2 plus 22 equals 24
Total: 20 = 2 Total: 22 = 22 (22 cannot be reduced here)
Look up the meaning of the compound number 24, and you'll
see why Paine Webber is such a successful company.
Let's try one more "person""example, since it teaches us such an
important lesson of courage. Helen Keller was a Cancerian, and her
Sun Sign helped her fight to overcome the disability of being blind,
deaf, and speechless. Cancer's essence is ultrasensitive, which Helen
had to be to receive the messages patiently sent to her by her teacher,
Annie Sullivan — and Cancer is tenacious. Without these Lunar qual-
ities of sensitivity . . . imagination . . . and tenacity, Helen might never
have found her way out of her dark and silent world. But she also had
the help of her numbers, and their influence likewise blessed her.
HELEN KELLER Bom: June 27th
27 equals 9
Single Key Number of birth: 9
Compound Key Number of birth: 27
*

-- 269 of 676 --

206 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
HELE.N. KELLER
5-5 355 253352 5 plus 2 equals 7
Total: 23 = 5 Total: 20 = 2
Single Key Number of name: 7
Compound Key Number of name
Supporting the beneficial influences of her sensitive, intuitive,
and tenacious Cancerian Sun Sign were Helen Keller's birth and name
Single and Compound Key Numbers. (Read the definitions of them
in the section beginning on Pages 225 and 249.) The 7, which is the
number of Neptune-ruled Pisces, gave her the spiritual strength she
needed. The 9, which is the number of Mars-ruled Aries, gave her the
physical stamina and drive she equally needed, and the fiery deter-
mination necessary to keep on fighting against "the impossible."
Finally, her Compound Key Number of birth — the 27 — fore-
shadowed her eventual victory over her afflictions — her glorious tri-
umph of the spirit as she held audiences spellbound all over the world
by demonstrating how she had overcome "insurmountable" obstacles
to find happiness. Helen Keller made everyone who saw her believe
in miracles.
The Single numbers of each name in a person's whole name — or
of each word in a title or a phrase — mean absolutely nothing. Ignore
them. The Compound "Total" numbers of each name and each work
— i.e.: the 23 of Helen and the 20 of Keller — or say, the 33 of
Elizabeth and the 18 of Taylor — carry only a mild and secondary
influence, but the effect is not very strong, and is usually diminished
by the more powerful strength and vibratory influence reached by
adding them to a Single number, then adding the Single numbers to
create a Compound Key Number. Always, the most important influ-
ences to be considered are the Single and Compound Key Numbers of
both birth and name.

-- 270 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 207
The reason the former numbers deserve small attention, and are
less personal and individual than the Key Numbers is that, after all,
every Elizabeth is a 33, and every person with the surname of Taylor is
an 18, for example. Still, 33 is a mighty fine number, subliminal or
not, and I wouldn't mind possessing it myself, however mild or neu-
tralized by the stronger Key Numbers of birth and name.
******
When numerology is used to select the name of a corporation,
'
company, or business, a book or play title — to change a name, or the
spelling of a name — don't forget this basic rule. The way numer-
ology "works" is through magnetic vibration. Before I explain that, let
me give some illustrations.
I had lunch a couple of years ago in New York with the manager
of the Bonwit Teller department store and one of the buyers from
Bloomingdale's. We were, discussing something store people every-
where (including furniture and appliance store managers) call "the
nine mystery." Let's say an item is priced at ten dollars, and isn't
selling. After many years of experimenting, store people discovered a
startling fact they proved over and over again — that they can actually
raise the price of the item to eleven or twelve dollars — as long as the
price tag reads $10.99 or $11.99. Almost immediately it will start to
sell briskly, after moving at the pace of a snail for weeks, or even
months.
Over the years, experienced buyers and department managers of
anything from shoe stores to boutiques know that all they need to do
to start a previously unpopular item moving is to either lower the
price by one cent — or raise it to a reasonable figure — add 99 to it —
i.e.: $7.99 — $21.99 — $149.99 — and so on, and it will attract
buying customers. The two men admitted that, although everyone in
the business knows this to be a fact, they don't understand why.
($12.96 or $12.94 won't do.) Nothing they've ever learned about
customer psychology explains why a person would be more willing to
pay a higher price than a lower price if the price ends with .99. 1 told

-- 271 of 676 --

208 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
them why, and I'm not sure they believe me, but they found it
fascinating.
You already know that 9 is the number of Mars — action. Since
numbers speak directly to the subconscious, when the customer sees
the number 9, especially when it's repeated twice or more, an action
message is instantly flashed through the brain's telepathic network
that says: "Buy now — move now — act now" — and the conscious
mind tends to obey this subliminal conditioning or programming,
causing the customer to impulsively make the purchase, not every
time, of course, but quite often, as reflected in the store's sales
receipts.
This has a great deal to do with how numerology works, through
the vibrational frequency of the constant repetition of a number — the
repeated impression of its vibration upon the ethers (and subcon-
scious minds everywhere) required for it to be fully effective. In other
words, the more often you send out a particular single or double num-
ber's vibration, via the spoken, written, or printed word, the more
powerful it is in its influence. So it doesn't do much good to select a
name for a business or whatever — or to change the numerical vibra-
tion of your own name — if you're the only one who knows about it.
Samuel Clemens would not have received the added benefit of
the 17 of Mark Twain (promising that his name would live after him)
if he had kept the name change a secret. Instead, "Mark Twain" was 5
printed over and over on hundreds of thousands of books (eventually,
millions) — and in various other ways over the years, including his
spoken introductions at countless social affairs as "Mark Twain."
Therefore, when you already have Key Numbers you consider to
be fortunate and harmonious with your inner goals — and especially
when you've adopted a new vibration by choosing a new name for an
entity, adding a name or initial to your own name, or changing the
spelling of a name, don't expect to see much difference unless you
make a special effort to "send out the new vibration" to impress itself

-- 272 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 209
upon the ethers and reach as many subconscious minds as possible, a
la Mark Twain. Sign your new name (or the title of an entity) as
frequently as possible, print the new name on business cards, handing
out as many as possible, be sure you're introduced by the new name at
business meetings and social functions — have your bank checks
printed with the new name — and increase its power every chance you
get — in every way possible.
When you're considering adopting a new vibrational influence by
changing the Key Numbers of your name, there are several ways to do
this. Naturally, few people would want to completely change the sur-
name. But some surnames are adaptable to having a letter added or
subtracted to achieve a new and more favorable single and/or com-
pound Key Number.
Most people would prefer to achieve the new vibration by either
subtracting one of two "given" or "first" names — or adding a new first
name. It's also possible to simply add an initial between the first and
last names to obtain the desired numerical influence. When any of
these steps are taken, as I've already explained, you can increase the
power of the new name by having it printed on checks, letterheads,
stationery, and business cards. However, adding a new first name —
or adding an initial (single letter) between the first and last names —
has less chance of a power increase because you lose the added mag-
netic energy of your name used in introductions to others — and of
others thinking of you that way.
It's rare for people to use two first names in an introduction, and
even more rare for them to use a middle initial. If you change John
Mendenhall to John L. Mendenhall to achieve the magical compound
Key Number of 15 instead of the 12 of just plain John Mendenhall,
your friends and associates aren't likely to introduce you as "John L.
Mendenhall" — they'll probably still call you John Mendenhall, and
continue to thinfe of you that way. Even though you have the new
name with the added initial L. printed on checks and such, you lose
some of the power that comes from repeated vibrations.

-- 273 of 676 --

210 * LiNDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
The "exception that proves the rule" is when the two first names
are hyphenated, or consist of the more commonly thought of and
more commonly pronounced double names, such as Mary Ellen, Mary
Kathleen, and so forth. Use your own logical judgment in the case of
double names.
It's true that you can add an initial and just through its printed
repetitions still observe remarkable changes in your life, but the
changes with more possibilities of a power increase are: (a) to remove
one of your first names, assuming you have two of them, and assum-
ing that gives the desired new numerical value — (b) add a new first
name (preferably with a hyphen, i.e.: Mary-jane or joined as Mary-
jane) assuming you already have only one, and insist that others refer
to you in that way — or (c) change the spelling of either the first or the
last name (surname).
You may have two "given" or first names plus a surname, and
discover that using only the initial of the second name causes all three
names to achieve the single and/or compound number you want — or
conversely, you may discover, if you've already been using only the
initial of your second name, and this gives you an undesirable Key
Number, that spelling out your second name in full, and insisting that
people refer to you in this manner (plus all the other power increase
suggestions I've described) will obtain the result you want.
But the easiest and the most effective way to make a change is to
either adopt a different or similar first name — or change the spelling
of either the first name -or the surname. When either of these two
methods are not possible or desirable, you may use the other methods
I've illustrated.
The main thing to remember is to do all you can to increase the
number of times the magnetic energy of the new name is impressed
upon the ethers — and upon the minds of others. Let's hope you
enjoy the challenge of the name you have now, and don't choose to
change, but to make the very best of its influence. Obviously, that's

-- 274 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 211
much less trouble, and you should remain with your own name if you
feel you can handle it — except for the rules which apply to the strange
numbers 4 and 8. I've written about them on Page 269 following the
definitions of the single and compound Key Numbers, so be sure to
read about them if your name (or birth day) produces the Single num-
ber 4 or 8.
The reason that the Key Numbers of your day of birth exert a
stronger influence over your life than the Key Numbers of your name
is, obviously, that while you can choose to gradually change the
vibratory influence of your name by changing the spelling in some
•way, you cannot change the day of your birth.
You may be wondering, "Are all the first names to be added to the
last name (or surname) to produce the Key Numbers ?" The answer is
that when you are determining the numerical influences of the Single
and Compound numbers in your life, whether you are satisfied with
them, or wish to change them, it is the most used first name or names
.which should be added to the surname or last name to produce the
Key Numbers representing you.
Also, those people with titles must consider the title before their
names as an additional number. For example, you've already studied
the illustration of Abraham Lincoln's birth and name Key Numbers,
and their meanings. But he was also referred to frequently as
"President Lincoln."
PRESIDENT LINCOLN
8253145 54 31537 3 5
Total: 37 = 10 = 1 Total: 27 = 9 1 plus 9 equals 10
1 plus equals 1
Single Key Number: 1
Compound Key Number: 10
When you read the definition of the Single Number 1 and that of

-- 275 of 676 --

212 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
the Compound Number 10, you'll quickly see how this title and
name, "President Lincoln," and the Key Numbers it produced as an
added influence over his life path-: were most fortunate for him, helped
him overcome some of the negative influences of his birth and name
Key Numbers, and gave him the strength to carry out his mission.
However, he was simultaneously influenced by the compound birth
Number 12 and the compound name Number 16, as illustrated by the
events I referred to before, including his assassination — and also the
several severe and painful political defeats he endured before being
nominated for the Presidency.
Because of this, a person who has calculated the Single and Com-
pound Key Numbers of birth and name, should also calculate his or
her title and surname together to discover the added influence of these
additional Key Numbers, since a person's title is so frequently used —
or impressed upon the ethers. Such as President Lincoln, Senator
Kennedy, Congresswoman Luce, and so on.
Another example of the foregoing is physicians. If a doctor's
name is, for instance, John Perry, the Single and Compound Key
Numbers of that name will certainly influence his life. However, he is
called and known as "Dr. Perry" as often as John Perry. Perhaps even
more often. Therefore, the calculation of the Key Numbers for "Dr.
Perry" is important as a secondary influence. The Single and Com-
pound Key Numbers of both names should be taken into considera-
tion, since both names exert power over the life. The same is true of
professors. A man may be called James Dorchester by many people,
but if he is equally as often called Professor Dorchester, he must con-
sider the Key Numbers of both names. Returning to the title of
"doctor," should you calculate Doctor Perry or Dr. Perry ? The latter,
because the abbreviation is nearly always used in writing the name,
and when people say it, they seldom think of it in their minds as
having six letters, but rather mentally image it as "Dr."
In the case of someone in the military, the same rule applies.
Douglas MacArthur, for instance, was equally as often called General

-- 276 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS it 213
MacArthur, so both names would influence his life. Whether the title
is General, Lieutenant, Sergeant, Ensign, or whatever, normally both
the given first and last name -should be used, as well as the title, i.e.,
Henry Miller and Lieutenant Miller. •
If a woman's name is Penelope Mason, and nearly everyone she
knows refers to her by the nickname "Penny" — or Penny Mason —
then the latter is the most used name (with the most frequently re-
peated vibrations into the ethers to increase the power of the numbers
representing it) — and is, consequently, the name which should be
used in numerical calculations.
Another question some people may ask is: how do you calculate
the Key Numbers of a name containing two words in the surname ?
The clearest way to answer this is by the following example, using the
name of a friend of mine, Philip di Franco. It's the u
di Franco" that
creates the problem. Should he treat "di Franco" as one word — or
two ? The answer is: as two words.
PHILIP DI FRANCO
851318 41 821537
Total: 26 5 Total: 26
2 plus 6 = 8
2 plus 6 = 8
8 plus 5 plus 8 = 21
2 plus 1 = 3
Single Key Number of name: 3
Compound Key Number of name: 21
Let's try it by calculating "di Franco" as a one-word surname.
PHILIP DIFRANCO
85 1318 4182 15 3 7

-- 277 of 676 --

214 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
Total: 26 Total: 31 2 plus 6 = 8
3 plus 1 = 4
8 plus 4=12
1 plus 2 = 3
Single Key Number of name: 3
Compound Key Number of name: 12
Notice the difference made in Philip's Key Numbers based on
whether his surname is treated as one word or two words, as it's
spelled. The Single Number 3 describes him perfectly, and is the Key
Number in both calculations. But . . . read the meaning of the Com-
pound Number 21 and the Compound Number 12. Who would ex-
change the 21 for the reversed 12 ? Besides, the 21 fits his karmic
pattern, judging by his life to date, far more than the 12.
In summary, those who have a two-word surname should treat it
as two words — not as one word — when they're calculating the
Single and Compound Key Numbers of their names.
This next advice is probably the most vital part of numerology for
you to comprehend. It concerns what happens when you alter- the
Compound and Single Key Numbers representing you, by changing,
in one way or another, the numerical value of your name.
Let's say an actress or singer adds the letter U
E" to her first name
or surname, and makes every effort to increase the power of the new
numbers this name change creates. First, she should remember that it
takes time, usually from a few months to a year or so, for the new
vibration to noticeably begin to affect her and her life pattern. And
when this change does occur, she should not expect her life to suddenly
and permanently become a solid "bed of roses n
As an example, let's say that she begins to experience a number of
events and opportunities which lead to career successes, her financial

-- 278 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 215
situation changes from negative to substantially positive, she makes
fewer enemies than before, and more good friends. Then, unexpect-
edly, her marriage ends in divorce for any number of reasons related to
her husband's or her own attitude and behavior (observed in her as-
trological birth chart) — and she has no astrologer to counsel her.
She may then begin to blame the name change for the divorce, be-
cause she fancied that adding an "E" to her name to produce new and
more favorable Key Numbers would guarantee that nothing what-
soever of a negative nature could ever again occur in her life. She is
wrong. Nothing under the Sun can give that kind of a solid insurance
against every single disappointment caused by her Karma.
Numerology does not have the power to completely erase Karma.
What numerology does have the power to accomplish in your life
is to remove many unnecessary obstacles from your path, to cause your
business and personal affairs to run more smoothly — and to allow you
to take full advantage oj your potential as revealed in your horoscope,
by removing frustrating restrictions which are preventing you from
realizing your goals and, most important, from performing your indi-
vidual mission on this Earth. This mistake of misunderstanding was
made by a beautiful and talented singer whose name was a 12, and
adding the "E" made it 17; an obviously beneficial change, but she
misunderstood as described in the previous two paragraphs and de-
leted the M
E" later. She should not have done so.
When you change your Key Numbers, you will absolutely see a
great difference, a marked improvement in all your affairs. But every
time you stub your toe, or someone steals your billfold walking home
from the theatre, don't blame it on numerology. A word to the wise
should be sufficient. Only the unenlightened would expect one hun-
dred percent "heaven on Earth" simply by increasing the positive
power of numbers in the life — and they are very much a positive
power when they are properly employed and properly understood.
But they cannot — and should not — replace your own personal and
individual responsibility to do all the things needed to achieve hap-

-- 279 of 676 --

216 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
piness, contentment, and success. If numerology removed your free
will choice to such an extent, it would not be positive, but a negative
force in the Universe, resulting only in postponing the inevitable kar-
mic responsibilities until a future incarnation — and this is contrary to
its purpose for existing as a valuable guide for men and women on
their path to truth and self-awareness.
******
When you're calculating the Key Numbers of the name of a per-
son or an "entity," and you get a Single Key Number, but no Com-
pound Key Number, what do you do ? Must you accept that the
person or entity has only a Single number influence — and if a person,
remain frustrated in discovering what the karmic mystery contained in
the Compound number definitions might be ? No.
In such cases, here is what you do. I'll explain by giving you the
example of my own name — and my first two books as "entity"
examples.
LINDA GOODMAN
31541 3774415 5 plus 4 equals 9
Total: 14 = 5 Total: 31 = 4
Single Key Number: 9
Compound Key Number: none
Using the name Linda Goodman as our example, here is what to
do if the name you are calculating gives you only a Single Key Num-
ber, and does not give you a Compound Key Number. You may do
something that has no validity, except in this particular instance. Take
the Total Compound numbers of both names, and add them together
to produce a Compound Key Number.

-- 280 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 217
Example: Linda is a 14. Goodman is a 31. 14
4- 31
X 45
And so, 45 becomes the Compound Key Number of Linda Good-
man. When you look up this number in the definitions given of the
Compound numbers, beginning on Page 249, you'll see that 45 has
the same value (or vibration) as the number 27. Therefore, the Com-
pound Key Number of my name is 27.
LINDA GOODMAN'S SUN SIGNS
3 15 41 37744153 365 31353
Total: 14 = 5 Total: 34 = 7 Total: 14 = 5 Total: 15 = 6
5 plus 7 plus 5 plus 6 equals 23
The compound Key Number of this book's title is 23, with which
I am very pleased. The reason my publisher and I decided to use the
possessive, and call it "Linda Goodman's Sun Signs" instead of "Sun
Signs" by Linda Goodman, is because the former title is a 23 — and
the latter title (Sun Signs alone) is an 1 1. I wasn't too happy withthe
11, and so the official title included all four words. This meant that
the vibration of the number 23 received a great power increase with
each book printed (and read) — and had to be listed as that four-
name title on the best seller lists, etc.
However, there were a number of newspaper releases, interviews,
and various write-ups about the book in which it was referred to as
simply Sun Signs, and readers referred to the book between themselves
as the two-word title — "Have you read Sun Signs" — or "May I bor-
row your copy of Sun Signs ?" Every time the magnetic vibration of 1
1
was sent out in this way, its influence over the book increased.
When you read the definition, you'll see why that wasn't very
fortunate, and certain aspects of my relationship with my publishers

-- 281 of 676 --

218 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
— later — reflected the negative side of the Compound number 11,
although the Compound Key Number of the four- word title, the fortu-
nate 23, balanced things to some extent.
I do try to learn through experience, so when I decided on a title
for my next book I wanted to make sure that the vibration was equally
fortunate and harmonious with — or without — my name as part of
the title — since my publishers insisted that the "Linda Goodman's"
possessive be part of it. - Nevertheless, I knew that some people would
still refer to it without the use of the possessive form of "Linda Good-
man's" — which is why I finally chose Linda Goodmans Love Signs,
because the vibration of "Love Signs" alone, even though that wasn't to
be the official title, is equally favorable. Illustration:
LINDA GOODMAN'S LOVE SIGNS
3 15 41 37744153 3765 31353
Total: 14 = 5 Total: 34 = 7 Total: 14 = 5 Total: 15 = 6
5 plus 7 plus 3 plus 6 equals 21
The Compound Key Number of this four-word title is 21, a most
fortunate number. Should people begin to refer to it with the "unoff-
icial" title of Love Signs alone, I knew it would be influenced by the
strong Single Number 9 (the 3 of "Love" and the 6 of "Signs" equals 9).
But remember the rule to follow when you have a Single Key
Number, but not a Compound Key Number. You add the Compound
numbers of the names (in this case, the two words "Love" and "Signs")
— and the resulting number is the Compound Key Number.
So . . . since the Compound number of Love is 21 — and the
Compound number of Signs is 15 . . . 21
+ 15
36
As you'll see in the Compound number definitions, the number

-- 282 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 219
36, like the Compound number of my name, 45 — is equal to 27, a
most fortunate number.
Too many people associate numerology with "lucky numbers."
There is no such thing in numerology as a guaranteed-always-lucky
number. However, the Single Key Number of the day of your birth
does vibrate harmoniously with you in most situations. Therefore,
not always, but frequently, when you keep important appointments
on a day of the month that harmonizes with your day of birth, things
will usually turn out to be more fortunate than not.
For example, if you were born on the 1st, 10th, or 19th day of
any month, you're influenced by the Single number 1, and you should
try to arrange important meetings on one of those days. If you were
born on the 2nd, 11th, 20th, or 29th, you're influenced by the Single
number 2, and should try to arrange important meetings on one of
these days — and so on with all the numbers. (Except for the karmic
numbers 4 and 8, for reasons explained beginning on Page 269.) Let's
call the rule described in this paragraph Rule Zebra. The reason it
needs a name is because I'm going to refer back to it shortly.
The priority Single and Compound Key Numbers of your birth
are derived from the day of your birth.
However, if you wish, you may calculate your entire birth date to
find a secondary Single Key Number (personality and character) and a
secondary Compound Key Number (karma and destiny). Sometimes
this secondary method of using the entire birth date gives you only a
milder subliminal influence. Sometimes it will amazingly intensify
the influences of the priority Key Numbers of the day of birth, as in the
following example of a person 1 know, using Rule Zebra.
This person is a Leo, born on August 13, 1945. The Single Key
Number of the day of his birth is 4 — the Compound Key Number of
the day of his birth is 13. These are his priority birth numbers.
Now, let's use his entire birth date to arrive at his secondary
Single and Compound Key Numbers. August 13, 1945.

-- 283 of 676 --

220 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
First, August is the 8th month. The number 8 has a relationship
with the Single Key Number 4 of his byth day, as' you will note when
you read the section about the strange numbers 4 and 8, beginning on
Page 269. The people influenced by 4 and 8 find these two numbers
mysteriously appearing and repeating themselves.
The year, 1945 adds (or reduces) to 19, which reduces to 10,
which reduces to the Single number 1. (The Chaldean system does
not use the numerical value of the letters of the month, but its numer-
ical sequence: January is the 1st month — a 1 — etc.) Here is how we
calculate the Lion's entire birth date.
8 August is the 8th month
4 Single number of the day of birth
1 reduced Single number of 1945
Total: 13 = 4
Therefore, this particular Leo's priority and secondary Single and
Compound Key Numbers are:
DAY OF BIRTH (Priority Key Numbers) ENTIRE BIRTH DATE
(Secondary)
Single Key Number: 4 Single Key Number: 4
Compound Key Number: 13 Compound Key Number: 13
Rather astonishing. This Lion's name (not given here for reasons
of privacy) also creates the Single numbers 4 and 8. The names and
birth dates of most of his close relatives are also 4's and 8's. Likewise,
his telephone numbers and addresses over the past years produce 4's
and 8's. You'll discover, when reading the section about the numbers
4 and 8, that this is a perfect example of the influence of these
"numbers of fate" (not necessarily negative).
Back to Rule Zebra. When you're applying Rule Zebra, use the

-- 284 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS . * 221
Single Key Number of the day of birth, and also use the Single Key
Number of the entire birth date.
However, never use the entire birth date to calculate your Single
number for the purpose of your health analysis. (See Chapter 2: An
Apple a Day, which contains a chart to aid you in determining your
Single number for a health analysis.)
When you use all these numerological star sign codes of wisdom,
and add your Sun Sign description from my book, Sun Signs, (or any
other good astrology book), you'll have a more complete picture of
your complex and many-faceted self. The Lexigram codes in Chapter
8 will reveal even more.
"You are endless galaxies, and you have seen but one star."
— from Sun Signs
All these calculations may seem like a lot of work, but assuming
you follow the several rules of increasing the power of your numbers,
it will be well worth the effort, many times over.
When you've mastered the numerical calculations (much easier
than they seem at first glance), you'll be able to see in which direction
those "powerful, invisible forces" described at the beginning of this
chapter are flowing, so you can flow along with them, and get in tune
with the harmony of the Universe. You'll find that you are able, to a
large extent, to control events instead of allowing them to control you,
simply by understanding how to change a major part of your "fate" by
changing your numbers. You'll also learn more about the people you
love. And finally, you'll be able to decode certain numerological se-
crets about your Karma, each of these Compound numbers containing
its own mystery of how to benefit from the number's positive aspects
— and eventually erase the negative aspects.
******
A warning: Some numerology books place great emphasis on

-- 285 of 676 --

222 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
your "compatible" numbers, claiming to tell you which number per-
son you'll get along with best, based on your birth or name Single
number.
Numerological compatibility does not work with any reliable de-
gree of dependability, and it would be unwise to base your relation-
ships on this weak branch of the numerology tree.
Numerical compatibility is based on what seems to be logic,
which is why you might be deceived. For example, these books tell
you that, for instance, a Number 1 person is compatible with a Num-
ber 9 person. They say this because 1 is the number of the Sun (ruler
of Leo) — and 9 is the number of Mars (ruler of Aries) — which is like
saying that Leo and Aries are compatible, which they definitely are.
But suppose that the Number 1 person is a Cancerian, and the
Number 9 person is a Libra. The Sun Signs of Cancer and Libra are
not generally harmonious or compatible, and the power of this Sun
Sign influence will take priority over the alleged numerical compati-
bility (or lack of it).
Your Sun Sign character and personality will also dominate the
personality analysis of your birth and name Single Numbers — al-
though the latter will be most helpful in helping you understand an
additional jacet of your total personality. This relationship between
the Sun Sign and the Single Key Numbers of name and birth is ex-
plained in the analysis of each Single Key Number, beginning on Page
225, telling you how your Single Key Number clashes or blends with
your normal Sun Sign personality.
******
The definitions of the Single numbers and double, or Com-
pound, numbers are based on the Tarot and ancient writings, and like
the numerical value of the letters of the alphabet, do not "belong to"
any individual numerologist. Each individual astrologer or numer-

-- 286 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 223
ologist adds his or her own style of expression to these definitions, but
the basic foundation of them is as old as thought itself. As an individ-
ual seeking truth and guidance from the planets and numbers/you
may (and should) develop your own form of esoteric interpretation,
reading "between the lines" when you're trying to apply the definitions
to a specific person, event, or situation. In other words, you have a
personal obligation and responsibility to add your own effort to the
process, to sharpen your own intuition through the study, and use of
these star sign codes to wisdom.
The origin of the Chaldean and Hebrew kabalistic alphabet is lost
in antiquity. It's believed that the system was originated by the Chal-
deans, who were adept in numerous magical arts and sciences, then
passed down to the Hebrews, and the knowledge became part of the
Hebrew Kabala, but no one claims to be certain who initiated it in the.
beginning. The word "Kabala" is spelled in various ways in its transla-
tion from Hebrew to English, but I prefer this spelling because it
equals the compound number 10 — and you'll see how logical that is
when you read the definition of this number.
And now, the definitions of the Single numbers. .
******

-- 287 of 676 --



-- 288 of 676 --

Definitions
Single
Numbers

-- 289 of 676 --

226 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
The Number 1
The Number 1 vibrates to the Sun. It represents creativity, pro-
tection, and benevolence. 1 is the number of original action, the ini-
tiating basis of all other numbers.
A person or entity is influenced by the Number 1 if born on the
1st, 10th, 19th, or 28th day of any month in any year. People or
entities born on the 1st are stamped with the distinctive imprint of the
Number 1. So are those born on the 10th, 19th, or 28th day of the
month, but these will, in addition, be challenged to unlock the karmic
mystery of the Compound number — 10, 19, or 28, as the case may be
— in their lives. The same is true of the Single and Compound num-
ber of the name of the person or entity being analyzed.
The Number 1 attitudes and characteristics will be periodically
exhibited by the 1 person or entity, and will interact with that person's
or entity's personality in different ways, depending on the individual
Sun Sign.
When the Sun Sign is:
LEO: The 1 vibration intensifies the Sun Sign personality traits.
AQUARIUS: The 1 vibration sometimes opposes the Sun Sign motives,
but, with effort, can be used to balance the Sun Sign nature.
ARIES, SAGITTARIUS, GEMINI, LIBRA: The 1 vibration harmonizes
well with the Sun Sign character, motives, and personality patterns.
SCORPIO, TAURUS, VIRGO, CANCER, PISCES, CAPRICORN: The 1
vibration is in sharp contrast with the basic Sun Sign instincts. When
it surfaces on occasion in the personality, the behavior is so unusual,

-- 290 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 227
relative to the person's or entity's normal or natural Sun Sign attitudes,
it startles others, and often surprises the Number 1 person as well.
The Meaning of the 1 Vibration
The following definition of Number 1 applies to both people and
entities. 1 people possess a strong sense of self-worth, and a marked
dislike for criticism. A 1 person demands — and usually gets — re-
spect; will insist on organizing and controlling everything and every-
one around. The underlying desire is to be inventive, creative, and
strongly original. These people are quite definite in their views, and
can be stubborn when thwarted. They dislike restraint, and must feel
free. They'll almost always rise to some position of authority in what-
ever they undertake. Otherwise, they'll pout in the corner, nursing a
bruised ego and frustrated ambitions. They insist on being looked up
to by the mate, friends, relatives, co-workers — and even by the boss !
They'll protect the weak, defend the helpless, and take on the
burdens of others as long as "the others" will do exactly as the Number
1 person dictates. They know everything better than anyone else, and
consider their opinions to be superior, if not flawless. The great ma-
jority of the time they are right, which understandably annoys the
people they lecture. They're strong on lectures. But 1 people are also
unbelievably susceptible to compliments (sincere, not phony, and
they can detect the difference). Genuine appreciation will get them to
bend over backward to please. Pride is their weakest point. When
the pride is wounded, 1 people lose all their virtues and become most
unpleasant. When they're appreciated and respected, no one can be
more generous and benevolent. But they can be dangerous when ig-
nored. Being in love and being loved is as vital a necessity to them as
the very air they breathe.
Although the disposition is easily wounded, enemies are quickly
forgiven after they bow down and apologize. The only way to win a
confrontation with a 1 person is to be humble, say you're truly sorry,

-- 291 of 676 --

228 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
and you'll be graciously excused. The Number 1 person resents famil-
iarity from strangers, but is extremely warm and affectionate with
those who are loved and trusted. There's a fondness for children and
young people, but often some sadness connected with a child. The 1
• person enjoys fine clothes and jewels, impressive cars. Even a
cloistered monk with a 1 vibration will keep his robe mended, and the
cord around the waist will not be torn or tattered. All Number 1
people are blessed with a visible inbred sense of dignity.
The Number 2
The Number 2 vibrates to the Moon. It represents imagination,
parenthood, and sensitivity. 2 is the number of conception, child-
birth, and dreams.
A person or entity is influenced by the Number 2 if born on the
2nd, 11th, 20th, or 29th day of any month, in any year. People or
entities born on the 2nd are stamped with the distinct imprint of the
Number 2. So are those born on the 11th, 20th, or 29th day of the
month, but these will, in addition, be challenged to unlock the karmic
mystery of the Compound number — 11 — 20 or 29, as the case may
be — in their lives. The same is true of the Single and Compound
number of the name of the person or entity being analyzed.
The Number 2 attitudes and characteristics will be periodically
exhibited by the 2 person or entity, and will interact with that person's
or entity's personality in different ways, depending on the individual
Sun Sign.
When the Sun Sign is:
CANCER. The 2 vibration intensifies the Sun Sign personality traits.
CAPRICORN: The 2 vibration sometimes opposes the Sun Sign mo-
tives, but, with effort, can be used to balance the Sun Sign nature.

-- 292 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 229
SCORPIO, PISCES, VIRGO, TAURUS: The 2 vibration harmonizes mil
with the Sun Sign character, motives, and personality patterns.
ARIES, LIBRA, GEMINI, SAGITTARIUS, AQUARIUS, LEO: The 2
vibration is in sharp contrast with the basic Sun Signs instincts.
When it surfaces on occasion in the personality, the behavior is so
unusual, relative to the person's or entity's normal or natural Sun Sign
attitudes, it startles others, and often surprises the Number 2 person as
well.
The Meaning of the 2 Vibration
The following definition of Number 2 applies to both people and
entities. 2 people are dreamers, with a tendency to fear the unknown
or the unfamiliar. They are extremely imaginative and inventive, but
not always as forceful as could be in carrying out their plans and
ideas. Not all, but most 2 people are seldom as strong as those born
under the single birth numbers of 1, 9, 3, or 6.
These people possess a very romantic nature, and are secretly
what is called "psychic." The intuition is highly developed. One of
the traits for 2 people to guard against is "fearing shadows of fears." A
2 person fears every conceivable kind of loss: loss of love, property,
money, friendship, employment — loss of loved ones through death
or any other kind of separation. These people need a home base, and
although they adore to travel the globe as frequently as finances per-
mit, they must have a home to return to. In no way can a 2 person be
a "soldier of fortune," to whom home is where you hang your hat.
They are fanatically devoted to or involved with (in either a negative or
positive sense) the parents, especially the Mother. They make ideal
parents themselves, but they must be careful not to smother their
children with possessive love.
This is the "chicken soup" vibration, since all 2 people are ultra
concerned with the well-being of friend and relatives. They hover
over everyone, making sure they^ don't catch cold, throw money away

-- 293 of 676 --

230 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
foolishly, and so forth. "Have some hot chicken soup and wear your
boots or you'll cateh your death of pneumonia." 2 people are ex-
tremely cautious, and dislike gambling or taking chances. They love
money, but like to accumulate it in a safe, stable way, then invest it
securely, so it can increase through dividends and interest. The 2
vibration is secretive, and never lets anyone know what the next move
might be. They're experts at wheedling secrets from others, but they
won't allow you to invade their own privacy. They'll veer from right
to left and backward, then lunge forward in a surprisingly aggressive
manner toward their goals. Money seems to stick to them like glue, so
you'll almost never find a 2 person (or an 8 person) on public welfare
or food stamps. These people are charitable (especially with family),
and are prone to heading charity drives, but it chills them to even
think about accepting charity themselves. It insinuates a failure to
protect their assets, which is a cardinal sin to the 2 vibration. When 2
people learn to overcome fear, possessiveness, and unnecessary cau-
tion, their imagination, adaptability, and intuition can carry them to
the fulfillment of all their many dreams.
The Number 3
The Number 3 vibrates to the planet Jupiter. It represents
idealism, higher education, foreign travel, and religion. 3 is the num-
ber of optimism, movement, expansion — and the Holy Trinity of the
body, mind, and spirit.
A person or entity is influenced by the Number 3 if born on the
3rd, 12th, 21st, or 30th day of any month in any year. People or
entities born on the 3rd are stamped with the distinctive imprint of the
Number 3. So are those born on the 12th, 21st, and 30th day of the
month, but these will, in addition, be challenged to unlock the karmic
mystery of the Compound number — 12, 21, or 30, as the case may
be — in their lives. The same is true of the Single and Compound
number of the name of the person or entity being analyzed.
The Number 3 attitudes and characteristics will be periodically

-- 294 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 23
1
exhibited by- the 3 person or entity, and will interact with that persons
or entity's personality in different ways, depending on the individual
Sun Sign.
When the Sun Sign is:
SAGITTARIUS: The 3 vibration intensifies the Sun Sign personality
traits.
GEMINI: The 3 vibration sometimes opposes the Sun Sign motives,
but, with effort, can be used to balance the Sun Sign nature.
ARIES, LEO, AQUARIUS, LIBRA: The 3 vibration harmonizes well with
the Sun Sign character, motives, and personality patterns.
PISCES, VIRGO, CAPRICORN, SCORPIO, TAURUS, CANCER: The 3
vibration is in sharp contrast with the basic Sun Sign instincts. When
it surfaces on occasion in the personality, the behavior is so unusual,
relative to the person's or entity's normal or natural Sun Sign attitudes,
it startles others, and often surprises the 3 person as well.
The Meaning of the 3 Vibration
The following definition of Number 3 applies to both people and
entities. 3 people base every action (even when they are misguided
and the action is a negative one) upon the foundation of a great ideal.
They aim high for truth, and nothing less than truth will satisfy them,
whether they seek the truth of a love affair, a friendship, a career,
politics, or religion. They are not easily put off by evasive answers or
deception, and they can spot a lie, a distortion, or dishonesty a mile
away. Some of them achieve the goal of truth, others are misled into
believing their own illusions, but they never stop searching. The 3
vibration is fiercely independent, seeks total freedom of speech and
movement, and cannot be tied down. Travel is an absolute necessity,
mingling with others and seeing the world, learning everything there
is to know about every country and its people, every intellectual con-
cept, every philosophy.

-- 295 of 676 --

232 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
They tend to look at the bright side of everything, and their opti-
mism is contagious. Even Capricorns with 3 as the birth number will
shock themselves with ' these occasional bursts of sheer Pollyanna
optimism.
Because of the shining quest for truth, the 3 person is either an
agnostic, an atheist, or intensely devoted to a religious principle, i.e.:
nuns, ministers, monks, rabbis, and priests. Religion is an important
part of the life of a 3 person or entity, whether religion is fervently,
fanatically accepted or bitterly rejected. The attitude is never neutral.
Physical challenge inspires the 3 people or entities; therefore
sports play a major role. The 3 vibration is shockingly blunt of
speech, candid to a fault, and outraged at duplicity of any kind.
There's a genuine love for animals and a strong tendency to defend the
underdog human with the same loyalty they show to their dogs,
horses, and other pets. There's a marked indifference to family ties,
and marriage works only when freedom is total. The 3 vibration is
associated with tests of physical strength, gambling, and taking a
chance, whether at the casinos or on the floor of the stock market.
The 3 person or entity will take a chance or bet on just about any-
thing. Their bubbling optimism is delightfully contagious.
3 people or entities often display an odd blend of the wise phi-
losopher and the happy-go-lucky clown, and a sense of responsibility
is sometimes lacking. Some of the goals, dreams, and ambitions are
serious; others are silly and frivolous. Pursuing an education matters
a great deal to 3 people, and they are crushed when they're denied the
halls of higher learning for whatever reason. They make excellent
"armchair lawyers" or professional attorneys, since the Planet Jupiter,
represented by 3, rules the law.
The Number 4
The Number 4 vibrates to the planet Uranus. It represents indi-
vidualism, originality, inventiveness, and tolerance. 4 is the number

-- 296 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 233
of unconventional behavior and sudden, unexpected events — also of
genius.
A person or entity is influenced by the Number 4 if born on the
4th, 13th, 22nd, or 31st day of any month, in any year. People or
entities bora on the 4th are stamped with the distinctive imprint of the
Number 4. So are those born on the 13th, 22nd, or 31st day of the
month, but these will, in addition, be challenged to unlock the karmic
mystery of the Compound number — 13 — 22, or 31, as the case may
be — in their lives. The same is true of the Single and Compound
number of the name of the person or entity being analyzed.
The Number 4 attitudes and characteristics will be periodically
exhibited by the 4 person or entity, and will interact with that person's
or entity's personality in different ways, depending on the individual
Sun Sign.
When the Sun Sign is:
AQUARIUS: The 4 vibration intensifies the Sun personality traits.
LEO: The 4 vibration sometimes opposes the Sun Sign motives, but,
with effort, can be used to balance the Sun Sign nature.
GEMINI, LIBRA, ARIES, SAGITTARIUS: The 4 vibration harmonizes
well with the Sun Sign character, motives, and personality patterns.
SCORPIO, TAURUS, CANCER, VIRGO, CAPRICORN, PISCES: The 4
vibration is in sharp contrast with the basic Sun Sign instincts. When
it surfaces on occasion in the personality, the behavior is so unusual,
relative to the person's or entity's normal or natural Sun Sign attitudes,
it startles others, and often surprises the Number 4 person as well.
The Meaning of the 4 Vibration
The following definition of Number 4 applies to both people and
entities. 4 people are seldom understood by their friends and family.
They're an enigma to everyone they know. They make their own

-- 297 of 676 --

234 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
rules, and these rules don't always match those of society. Marked
individuality colors every thought and action. If there's a different
way to do anything, the 4 person will find it. Their speech and ac-
tions frequently shock others, and it often seems the attempt to shock
is deliberate. It is. 4 people live in the future, caring little about the
present. They're light years ahead of others in their ideas and ideals.
Going along with this trait is an innate talent for prophecy, for know-
ing what will happen tomorrow long before tomorrow arrives. Their
life-style ranges from unconventional to the bizarre, yet their "crazy"
ideas are successful more often than not.
Anything far out or off the beaten path appeals strongly to the 4
person's questing, curious nature. For example, a 4 person with a
well-aspected Jupiter in the natal horoscope has an excellent chance to
be the first person to tame and make friends with Sasquatch or Bigfoot
— or locate and swim along with Nessie, the Loch Ness monster. If
the 4 person also has a Scorpio Sun or Moon, the discovery, if at-
tempted, is almost certain to be successful. That's because such in-
credible, unproven, and so-called unscientific theories never deter,
but instead excite the 4 person, who is deeply convinced of the reality
of whatever can be conceived in the mind. To be told that a thing is
impossible only intensifies and spurs the 4 person's resolve to prove it
is possible. The phrase "mission impossible" rings the great bells of
mental challenge in the very soul of a 4 person.
Although the 4 vibration advocates change in every area of life,
from politics to art, these people are strangely reluctant to accept
change in their personal habits, which remain rather fixed. They can
be quite stubborn when people try to dictate to them or try to mold
them into a more acceptable social pattern. Because prophets are
often unrecognized in their own time, and because 4 people live far
into the future, their grandest and truest visions are often ridiculed or
ignored. They're fascinated by U.F.O.s, and their secret wish is to be
contacted and taken aboard, hopefully not to return to the chaos of
Earth. Reform movements like Women's Liberation and Equal Rights

-- 298 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 235
for Minorities attract the 4 people, who are genuinely dedicated to
tolerance and brotherhood (and sisterhood). Friendship is vital to the
4 vibration, and these people — not always, but usually — have bush-
els of friends from all walks of life. Money means little to them;
they're as likely to mix with Kings as with paupers — they care noth-
ing about class distinction, have no desire to impress anyone, and
would just as soon live in a van, a tent, or a sleeping bag as in a
mansion. It's not that they're prejudiced against comfort or wealth,
it's because they simply don't notice their surroundings. They live in
their imaginations. One of their finest virtues is the tendency to "live
and let live." The 4 person doesn't give a ginger snap what you do or
say, however outrageous or against his or her own principles — and
expects you to return the same consideration.
The Number 5
The number 5 vibrates to the planet Mercury. It represents com-
munication, movement, and versatility. It's the number of the intel-
lect and both written and oral expression.
A person or entity is influenced by the number 5 if born on the
5th, 14th, or 23rd day of any month in any year. People born on the
5th are stamped with the distinctive imprint of the number 5. So are
those born on the 14th or 23rd day of the month, but these will, in
addition, be challenged to unlock the karmic mystery of the Com-
pound number of 14 or 23, as the case may be, in their lives. The
same is true of the Single and Compound number of the name of the
person or entity being analyzed.
The number 5 attitudes and characteristics will periodically be
exhibited by the 5 person or entity, and will interact with that person's
personality in different ways, depending on the individual Sun Sign.
When the Sun Sign is:
GEMINI, VIRGO: The 5 vibration intensifies the Sun Sign personality

-- 299 of 676 --

236 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
traits, and gives the ability to create magical changes in the appearance
and behavior.
SAGITTARIUS, PISCES: The 5 vibration sometimes opposes the Sun
Sign motives, but, with effort, can be used to balance the Sun Sign
nature.
ARIES, TAURUS, CANCER, LEO, LIBRA, SCORPIO, CAPRICORN,
AQUARIUS: The 5 vibration, due to its peculiar mingling power, ei- '
ther harmonizes with or sharply contrasts with the 5 persons Sun Sign
characteristics, depending on the mood of the moment. The nature of
the 5 is endlessly changeable and adaptable, bringing a curious ten-
dency to be in harmony with one's self when one wishes, and at odds
with one's self at other times. It's never easy to know a 5 person. The
dreams change like quicksilver. When 5 is the single number of ei-
ther the birth or the name of a Virgo or Gemini, the mercurial qualities
are even more pronounced.
The Meaning of the 5 Vibration
The following definition of Number 5 applies to both people and
entities. 5 people possess a great deal of natural charm, and, as a
general rule, are innately courteous. They're quick to spot mistakes
and flaws, and will not hesitate to point them out when they see .
them. The 5 vibration is super-critical and incapable of ignoring mis-
takes (their own, as well as those of others) and it's associated with a
love for movement and travel. Change is a never-ending necessity for
5 people. Change of scene, change in relationships, residence, spir-
itual and political beliefs, and so on. There's a strong tendency to
overanalyze people and situations. It's difficult for a 5 person to sub-
mit to the feelings and the intuition; the intellect is determined to find
logical answers. This obsession with analysis can ruin personal rela-
tionships for those who allow themselves to be ruled by the 5 vibra-
tion. Even love can wear out under such continual (and usually
unnecessary) scrutiny. Love is made of instinct and feelings, not

-- 300 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 237
logic. 5 people tend to "talk love to death" instead of just letting it be,
allowing it to become pan of them, without questioning its whys and
wherefores. Love has nothing to do with logic. Most people enjoy
being in the company of a 5 person, since the outward persona is
unusually pleasant and soothing. Because 5 is the vibration of intel-
lect, those under its influence are extremely bright, of higher than
average intelligence, and mentally alert. Nothing escapes their no-
tice. They seem to be fine-tuned to the smallest detail. When finan-
cial or other circumstances don't permit the frequent travel all 5
people need, they'll travel in their minds, and since their minds are so
acute, their "daydreams" are vivid enough to satisfy the restless urges
within them for a time, at least.
According to the ancients, the number 5 has an association with
what is called "earth-magic." Curiously, the number 5 brings a long-
ing to believe in magic, elves, faeries, and mysteries of Nature, along
with a need to pin everything down and view it under a mental micro-
scope, two qualities which are in direct polarity to one another, caus-
ing those under the influence of 5 to find it difficult to understand
themselves. 5 people are sometimes high strung; they live on their
nerves, and crave excitement. They're quick in thought and decision,
often impulsive in their actions. They have a keen sense of new ideas
and inventions, are willing to take risks, and are born speculators.
Writing, advertising, public relations, and publishing are fortunate 5
occupations. 5 people possess an admirable elasticity of viewpoint,
and the ability to rebound swiftly from blows of fate, which seem to
leave no long-lasting impression on them.
The Number 6
The Number 6 vibrates to the planet Venus. It represents the
feminine essence, compassion, and (until Venus gives up her rulership
of Taurus when the planet Pan-Horus is discovered) also money. 6 is
the number of love and romance.
A person or an entity is influenced by the Number 6 if born on

-- 301 of 676 --

238 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
the 6th, 15th, or 24th day of any month, in any year. People or
entities born on the 6th are stamped with the distinct imprint of the
Number 6. So are those born on the 15th and 24th day of the month,
but these will, in addition, be challenged to unlock the karmic mys-
tery of the Compound number — 15 or 24 — as the case may be — in
their lives. The same is true of the Single and Compound number of
the name of the person or entity being analyzed.
The Number 6 attitudes and characteristics will be periodically
exhibited by the 6 person or entity, and will interact with that person's
or entity's personality in different ways, depending on the individual
Sun Sign.
When the Sun Sign is:
AQUARIUS, TAURUS, LIBRA: The 6 vibration intensifies the Sun Sign
personality traits.
SCORPIO, ARIES: The 6 vibration sometimes opposes the Sun Sign
motives, but, with effort, can be used to balance the Sun Sign nature.
ANY OTHER SIGN: The 6 vibration will, at times, harmonize with the
Sun Sign character and personality patterns, and at other times,
contrast sharply with them. At the latter times, the behavior is so un-
usual, relative to the normal behavior, it startles others, and often
surprises the Number 6 person as well.
The Meaning of the 6 Vibration
The following definition of Number 6 applies to both people and
entities. 6 people seem to magnetically attract others to them.
They're genuinely loved by their friends and associates — and when
they become attached themselves, they're devoted to the loved one.
There's more idealism and affection than sensualism in the love na-
ture. These people are born romantics with a strong sentimental
streak, no matter how they deny it or try to hide it. The 6 vibration

-- 302 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 239
brings a love of art and a deep affinity for music. These people love
nice homes and tasteful furnishings, pastel colors, and harmony in
their surroundings.
They love to entertain their friends and to make people happy,
and they simply cannot abide discord, arguments, unpleasantness, or
jealousy — although they can display intense jealousy themselves if
they're threatened with the possible loss of someone (or something)
they love. The 6 vibration makes friends easily, and they tend to
enjoy settling disputes between their friends, business associates, and
relatives, at which times they appear to be as peaceful and as docile as
lambs — until their stubborn side surfaces; then they don't seem quite
so sweet !
Money often comes to them without effort, sometimes through
their own talents and abilities, sometimes through inheritance or
through wealthy friends or relatives. But they're warned to watch for
a tendency toward the extremes of extravagance and stinginess.
There's seldom a neutral attitude toward finances. It's either one or
the other, taking turns in the nature. The love of beauty of all kinds in
every area of life is pronounced. Most 6 people are deeply attached to
Nature in some way, and love spending time in the country, near the
silent woods and singing streams, which has a tranquilizing effect on
their emotions. A fondness for luxury marks the 6 vibration. Ugliness
is extremely offensive to them. They admire the tasteful and shrink
from loudness and vulgarity. Their manners are, as a general rule,
impeccable, and in their associations with others they are usually po-
lite. However, when they feel strongly about anything, they won't
hesitate to make their opinions known. They're fond of discussing
and debating politics and other matters, and they usually win, because
of their logic . . . and their irresistible smiles.
The Number 7
The Number 7 vibrates to the planet Neptune. It represents spir-
ituality, sensitivity, sympathy, and mystery 7 is the number of illu-

-- 303 of 676 --

240 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
sion and delusion, sometimes deception — but also the number of
healing and miracles, faith — and dreams that come true.
A person or entity is influenced by the -number 7 if born on the
7th, 16th, or 25th day of any month, in any year. People or entities
born on the 7th are stamped with the distinctive imprint of the Num-
ber 7. So are those born on the 16th or 25th day of the month, but
these will, in addition, be challenged to unlock the karmic mystery of
the Compound number — 16 or 25, as the case may be — in their
lives. The same is true of the Single and Compound number of the
name of the person or entity being analyzed.
The Number 7 attitudes and characteristics will be periodically
. exhibited by the 7 person or entity, and will interact with that person's
or entity's personality in different ways, depending on the individual
Sun Sign.
When the Sun Sign is:
PISCES: The 7 vibration intensifies the Sun Sign personality traits.
VIRGO: The 7 vibration sometimes opposes the Sun Sign motives, but,
with effort can be used to balance the Sun Sign nature.
SCORPIO, CANCER, CAPRICORN, TAURUS: The 7 vibration
harmonizes well with the Sun Sign character, motives, and personality
patterns.
GEMINI, SAGITTARIUS, AQUARIUS, ARIES, LIBRA, LEO: The 7
vibration is in sharp contrast with the basic Sun Sign instincts. When
it surfaces on occasion in the personality, the behavior is so unusual,
relative to the person's or entity's normal or natural Sun Sign attitudes,
it startles others, and often surprises the Number 7 person as well.
The Meaning of the 7 Vibration
The following definition of Number 7 applies to both people and

-- 304 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 241
entities. 7 people tend to have remarkable dreams. Sometimes they
talk about them — and sometimes they keep them to themselves. But
they do dream more than most. Secretly, they have an intense interest
in esoteric mysteries, mythology, spacecraft or U.EO.s . . . and the
entire forest of the unknown. They often possess the gifts of intuition
and clairvoyance and a certain quieting, calming magnetism which has
a great influence over others. Often, their mere presence has a
soothing effect on a troubled person. The 7 vibration is associated
with peculiar ideas about religion, a dislike of following the beaten
path, and a tendency to adopt political beliefs which are unique and
somewhat nonorthodox. It's not unusual for a 7 person to discover,
found, or believe in a new religious concept.
The 7 person will either travel extensively at some time in the life
or else read avidly books about foreign people and faraway lands.
Many people influenced by the 7 vibration are strongly attracted to the
sea and at some time are associated with sailing, water sports, or the
Navy. There's a tendency to be anxious about the future, which is
why 7 people need to know they have a rock of financial security
somewhere in the background, lest the waters of fate sweep them
away.
Yet, they care little about material possessions or accumulating
great wealth. 7 people can earn large sums of money through their
original ideas, but they're likely to make substantial contributions to
charities or institutions. When they gravitate toward the arts, they
make fine dancers, singers, poets, writers, actors, or actresses.
In their own quiet, laid-back way, people influenced by the
Number 7 have ambitions they don't discuss with others, and these
are always tinged with a philosophical outlook. They bless others
with the grace of their sympathetic understanding of pain and suffer-
ing, which is why friends, relatives, and business associates unburden
their troubles to the 7 person. There's a strong leaning toward privacy
in the 7 vibration, and these people prefer to keep their own problems

-- 305 of 676 --

242 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
to themselves. They shrink from prying questions, and have a horror
of "big brother" or anything they consider to be an invasion of their
privacy. l
Refined manners, an artistic temperament, and a sensitive nature
make up the 7 essence, and don't let these people fool you with their
sometimes taciturn nature . . . you'd be surprised if you knew all the
strange thoughts that swim through their minds when they're commu-
ning with themselves. If you can coax them to talk about what they're
thinking, you'll not only be surprised, you'll be fascinated when you
learn the secrets of their Neptunian world. But the 7 person must find
you trustworthy before he or she shares these inner streams of con-
templation . . . and you'll have to earn that trust by proving you're not
judgmental or prejudiced. 7 people are rarely either.
The Number 8
. The Number 8 vibrates to the planet Saturn. It represents wis-
dom, learning through experience, stability, patience, and responsibil-
ity. 8 is also the number of financial security, caution, restriction, self-
discipline and self-control.
A person or entity is influenced by the Number 8 if born on the
8th, 17th, or 26th day of any month, in any year. People or entities
born on the 8th are stamped with the distinct imprint of the Number
8. So are those born on the 17th or 26th day of the month, but these
will, in addition, be challenged to unlock the karmic mystery of the
Compound number 17 or 26, as the case may be, in their lives. The
same is true of the Single and Compound number of the name of the
person or entity being analyzed.
The Number 8 characteristics and attitudes will be periodically
exhibited by the 8 person or entity, and will interact with that person's
or entity's personality in different ways, depending on the individual
Sun Sign.

-- 306 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS it 243
When the Sun Sign is:
CAPRICORN: The 8 vibration intensifies the Sun Sign personality
traits.
CANCER: The 8 vibration sometimes opposes the Sun Sign motives,
but with effort, can be used to balance the Sun Sign nature.
PISCES, SCORPIO, VIRGO, TAURUS: The 8 vibration harmonizes mil
with the Sun Sign character, motives and personality patterns.
ARIES, LIBRA GEMINI, LEO, SAGITTARIUS, AQUARIUS: The 8
vibration is in sharp contrast with the basic Sun Sign instincts. When
it surfaces on occasion in the personality, the behavior is so unusual,
relative to the person's normal Sun Sign attitudes, it startles others,
and often surprises the Number 8 person as well.
The Meaning of the 8 Vibration
The following definition of the Number 8 applies to both people
and entities. 8 people are normally quiet, reserved, and shy. They
don't obviously push ahead, but slowly and surely they will get where
they want to go, and nothing will stop them from achieving their
ambitions. The shyness and reticence is a cover for an intense drive to
reach the top of the profession or career. They make excellent teach-
ers and counselors, most of them could be successful in the tough
game of politics (although now and then there's a sour apple in the
barrel) — and they excel at anything that requires patience and intelli-
gent deduction.
Those influenced by the 8 vibration may have poor health in
childhood, but they grow more robust when they reach maturity, and
longevity is common with 8 men and women. These people are will-
ing to wait for their plans to bear fruit, and they use the waiting time
wisely. It's rare to find an 8 person procrastinating or "goofing off."
They have an inborn sense of duty and responsibility that won't allow
them to take a careless attitude toward what is expected of them.

-- 307 of 676 --

244 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
Most of those born under the 8 influence are as reliable as a grand-
father clock, and as cozy to be around as a grandma quilt or com-
forter. They have a rich sense of humor, but one has to watch for it;
it's subtle and never obvious. These people behave as if they don't
care.a peanut what people think of them, and they appear to be turned
off by compliments, yet inwardly they care very much what people
think of them, and if the compliments are sincere, they secretly enjoy
them, although they'll hide their pleasure, for fear they might be con-
sidered weak. To be considered weak is the very last thing they want
to happen.
Although the 8 vibration, like all the single number birth vibra-
tions, interacts always with the person's Sun Sign, and the traits aren't
always present — they only surface on occasion — most 8 people
have very deep and intense natures and great inner strength. They
often play an important role in life's drama, and many times are the
instrument of Fate for others. There's a tendency toward fanaticism in
religion, and they'll stick by what they believe relentlessly, in the face
of all opposition. They make loving friends, but bitter enemies.
Although 8 people appear to be cold and undemonstrative with
those they love and trust, they can be shyly affectionate and warmly
devoted. They're often lonely, needing desperately to be loved, and
they're capable of great sacrifices for an ideal, an ambition, or for those
who depend on them. They grow younger in appearance and behav-
ior as they grow older — they look and act younger at fifty than they
did when they were twenty. They're as demanding of themselves as
they are of others, but for all the outward attitudes of wisdom and
maturity, self-control, and discipline, the 8 person's heart is lonely and
longing, and they need to learn that the pursuit of happiness is not a
sin.
The Number 9
The Number 9 vibrates to the planet Mars. It represents ag-
gressive action, penetration, courage, and conflict. 9 is the number of

-- 308 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 245
originality and initiative . . . also the .contradictory traits of vul-
nerability and naivete.
A person or entity is influenced by the Number 9 if born on the
9th, 18th, or 27th day of any month, in any year. People or entities
born on the 9th are stamped with the distinct imprint of the Number
9. So are those born on the 18th and 27th day of the month, but these
will, in addition, be challenged to unlock the karmic mystery of the
Compound number 18 or 27, as the case may be, in their lives. The
same is true of the Single and Compound number of the name of the
person or entity being analyzed.
The Number 9 characteristics and attitudes will be periodically
exhibited by the 9 person or entity, and will interact with that person's
or entity's personality in different ways, depending on the individual
Sun Sign.
When the Sun Sign is:
ARIES: The 9 vibration intensifies the Sun Sign personality traits.
LIBRA: The 9 vibration sometimes opposes the Sun Sign motives, but,
with effort, can be used to balance the Sun Sign nature.
LEO, GEMINI, SAGITTARIUS, AQUARIUS: The 9 vibration
harmonizes well with the Sun Sign character, motives, and personality
patterns.
CAPRICORN, CANCER, TAURUS, VIRGO, SCORPIO, PISCES: The 9
vibration is in sharp contrast with the basic Sun Sign instincts. When
it surfaces on occasion in the personality, the behavior is so unusual,
relative to the person's normal Sun Sign attitudes, it startles others,
and often surprises the Number 9 person as well.
The Meaning of the 9 Vibration
The following definition of Number 9 applies to both people and

-- 309 of 676 --

246 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
entities. 9 people are not stubborn, but they are determined to get
what they want, and there is a difference. Stubbornness reacts and
determination initiates. 9 brings a tendency to be impulsive and make
snap decisions, later regretted. Although the temper will flare rather
frequently, these people are quick to both forgive and forget an in-
jury. They're vulnerable to their enemies because their first instinct is
to trust everyone. Since they're so direct themselves, they expect oth-
ers to be the same — and others often are not. Deviousness and
manipulation always come as a shock to 9 people. As a general rule,
they're incapable of such behavior and motives themselves, and dis-
honesty catches them off guard nearly every time, until they leam to
be more cautious.
One of the most beneficial virtues of the 9 vibration is the ability
to penetrate straight to the heart or the core of a situation instead of
indulging in circumlocution and the slow process of analysis. The
Mars rulership of 9 allows these people to get directly to the point
swiftly, and this makes them extremely impatient of slower thinkers,
which doesn't help them win popularity contests. In fact, impatience
with the mistakes of others and with errors of thinking they see in-
stantly is one of the traits 9 people find the most difficult to control.
The familiar catch phrase "what you see is what you get" perfectly
describes the 9 personality (when it surfaces to interact with the Sun
Sign nature) because of the complete lack of guile. It's against the very
essence of the 9 vibration to plan compjex strategies or to play games
to get what they want from other people. It's so much easier to simply
demand what they want ! Since such straightforwardness is unex-
pected by the other person, 9 people usually get what they want by
catching the opposition by surprise. Many people are touched by the
visible vulnerability and childlike quality of the 9 person, and feel
protective toward him or her; others see these qualities as foolish, one
of the reasons that 9 people are seldom truly respected by friends and
business associates — until that Mars temper and courageous spirit I
comes forth, like a battle cry, and those who underestimated the 9
vibration's pure energy will take a sudden, shocked step backward.

-- 310 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 247
There's a strong tendency toward vanity. At least that's what it
appears to be on the surface. But 9 people are not vain, even though
they are admittedly almost constantly concerned with their appear-
ance. The true root of this attitude is fear of rejection, because, be-
neath all their bravado, 9 people inwardly tremble with a lack of
confidence. As self-assertive as they may seem, they need continual
reassurance that they are liked — respected — admired — and loved.
For all the pushiness and independent airs of 9 people, they're secretly
very unsure of themselves. Generous to a fault and normally extrava-
gant (unless the Sun Sign cancels this trait most of the time . . . al-
though it will still be evident on rare occasions' in anyone born as
Number 9) -— 9 people need no lessons in giving. The first instinct is
to give, to let go, and let, tomorrow take care of itself.

-- 311 of 676 --



-- 312 of 676 --

Definitions
of
Compound
Numbers

-- 313 of 676 --

250 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
10
The Wheel of Fortune
10 is symbolized by Isis and Osiris. A number of rise and farf
according to personal desire. The name will be known for good or
evil, depending on the action chosen. 10 is capable of arousing tl^ <
extreme responses of love or hate — respect or fear. There is nj^
middle ground between honor or dishonor. Every event is seif-deteiS
mined. 10 is the symbol of LOve and Light, which create all that caajj
be imagined, and also contains the code: Image 10 Ordaiiw
Image it, and it shall be. Ordain it, and it will materialize. The power!
for manifesting creative concepts into reality is inherent, but must be
used with wisdom, since the power for absolute creation contains the
polarity power for absolute destruction. Self-discipline and infinite
compassion must accompany the gift of the former to avoid the trag-
edy of the latter. Discipline must precede Dominion: Unfortunately,
some 10 people fail to realize their power potential, and consequently
harbor deep-seated feelings of frustration, causing them to feel unt I
fulfilled, and to occasionally behave in a somewhat proud and ar?-|
rogant. manner to cover such unnecessary feelings of inferiority.
11
A Lion Muzzled — A Clenched Fist
This is a number of hidden trials and treachery from others. It
represents two members of the same or the opposite sex — or two |
opposed situations. In either case, compatibility of interest is lacking,
and interference from a third force must be conquered. The difficul-
ties may also arise from the illusion of separation. It's necessary to
unite divided goals to avoid a sense of frustrated incompletion. The
third, interfering force can be a person or an idea; and it can take the
form of a refusal to see the other side as an obstacle to harmony. The
origin of the separating force must be identified, an attempt made to
seek compromise. Occasionally, conflicting desires within one's own

-- 314 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS iV 25
1
self are seen as in a reflecting mirror. Two forces or two desires stand
apart and must ultimately unite for happiness. Yet, each must remain
individual, even after being joined, for each possesses its own worth.
12
The Sacrifice — The Victim
One will periodically be sacrificed for the plans or intrigues of
others. The number 12 warns of the necessity to be alert to every
situation, to beware of false flattery from those who use it to gain their
own ends. Be suspicious of those who offer a high position, and care-
fully analyze the motive. Although duplicity is not always present,
forewarned is forearmed. There is a degree of mental anxiety, caused
by the need to sacrifice personal goals to the ambition of others. A
secondary meaning of this number should be considered. The figure
1 is the teacher (whether it be a person or Life itself). The figure 2 is
the kneeling, submissive student. Sometimes, the result of severe
emotional stress and mental anguish creates amnesia, forgetfulness of
lessons previously learned. 12 represents the educational process on
all levels, the submission of the will required and the sacrifices neces-
sary to achieve knowledge and wisdom, on both the spiritual and the
intellectual levels. When the intellect is sacrificed to the feelings, the
mind, will be illuminated with the answers it seeks. Look within for
the solution. Attention paid to the requirements of education will end
suffering and bring success.
13
Regeneration — Change
13 is not an unlucky number, as many people believe. The an-
cients claimed that "he who understands how to use the number 13
will be given power and dominion." The symbol of 13 is a skeleton,
or death, with a scythe, reaping down men in a field of. new-grown
grass, where young faces and heads appear to be thrusting through the
ground and emerging on all sides. 13 is a number of upheaval, so. that

-- 315 of 676 --

252 * '
LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
new ground may be broken. It's associated with power, which, if
used for selfish purpose, will bring destruction upon itself. There is a
warning of the unknown and the unexpected. Adapting to change
gracefully will bring out the strength of the 13 vibration, and decrease
any potential for negative. 13 is associated with genius — also with
explorers, breaking the orthodox and new discoveries of all kinds. If
you were born on the 13th day of any month — or should the Com-
pound Key Number of your name be 13 — you'll need to read care-
fully the section of this chapter related to the numbers 4 and 8,
beginning on Page 269.
14
Movement . . . Challenge
Magnetic communication with the public through writing, pub-
lishing, and all media-related matters is associated with the 14. Pe-
riodic changes in business and partnerships of all kinds are usually
beneficial. Dealing with speculative matters brings luck; likewise,
movement and travel associated with combinations of people and na-
tions can be fortunate. However, both gains and losses are sometimes
temporary, due to the strong currents of change, which are ever-pre-
sent. 14 warns of danger from accidents related to natural elements,
i.e.: fire, flood, earthquakes, tornados, hurricanes, tempests, and so
forth. (This is not an absolute, merely a warning to be cautious.)
There is risk involved in depending on the word of those who mis-
represent a situation. It's a mistake to rely on others. Rely on the
intuition, the self, the voice within. The "luck" of 14 includes money
dealings and speculative projects, or "betting," but there's always a
danger of loss due to wrong advice from others, or overconfidence.
15
The Magician
15 is a number of deep esoteric significance, the alchemy vibra-
tion through which all magic is manifested. It's extremely lucky and
carries the essence of enchantment with it. 15 is associated with

-- 316 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 253
"good talkers," eloquence of speech, and the gifts of music, art, and
the drama. It bestows upon the person or entity represented by it a
dramatic temperament and strong personal magnetism; a curiously
compelling charisma. The 15 vibration is especially fortunate for ob-
taining money, gifts, and favors from others, because of its powerful
appeal to the altruistic nature of people. However, there are no roses
without thorns, and the ancients warn that 15 rules the lower levels of
occultism when it is associated with the single numbers 4 or 8. Such
people will use every art of magic — even black magic, hypnosis, and
mental suggestion — to carry out their purpose. Or the contrary is
true. The 4 or 8 person will become the victim of others using the
same methods. Consequently, if the 15th is the birth date, and the
name number is 4, 13, 22, or 31, the spelling of the name should be
changed to equal a Compound number that reduces to the Single
number 1, such as 10 or 19. If the birth date is the 15th, and the name
number is 8, 17, or 26, the spelling should be changed to equal the
number 6 or 24. If the name number is 15, and the person was born
on the 4th, 13th, 22nd, or 31st day of the month, the spelling of the
name should be changed to equal 6 or 24. If the name number is 15,
and the person was born on the 8th, 17th, or 26th, the name number
should be changed to equal 6 or 24.
It's important to read the section beginning on Page 269 about
the numbers 4 and 8 for a fuller understanding of the reason behind
this advice.
Other than this warning, the Compound number 15 is extremely
fortunate. If you were born on the 15th day of any month, and the
Compound number of your name is also a 15, youre blessed with the
ability to bring great happiness to others and to shine much light into
the darkness, assuming you don't use this magical and fortunate vibration
for selfish purposes.

-- 317 of 676 --

254 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
16
The Shattered Citadel
16 is pictured by the ancient Chaldeans as "a Tower struck by
Lightning, from which a man is falling, with a Crown on his head." It
warns of a strange fatality, also danger of accidents and the defeat of
one's plans. If the name equals the Compound number 16, it would
obviously be wise to charfge the spelling of the name to avoid this
vibration. If the birth date is the 16th day of any month, the challenge
of the 16 must be carefully met, so that its effect may be diluted to a
milder vibration. To avoid the fatalistic tendency of the 16 as a birth
number, one must endeavor to make all plans in advance, making
certain that any possibility of failure is anticipated and circumvented
by careful attention to detail. The 16 brings with it the Single number
7s obligation and responsibility to listen to the voice within, which will
always warn of danger through dreams or the intuition in time to avoid
it. The inner voice must not be ignored. As I partially explained
earlier regarding the fact that the name "Abraham Lincoln" is a 16,
Lincoln was warned repeatedly of his potential assassination by his
dreams . . . and also by several "sensitives" or "mediums" who were
brought to the White House by Mary Todd Lincoln. He did not heed
these many clear warnings, and refused to take the necessary precau-
tions, therefore, was unable to avoid his fate. But it could have been
avoided, and this is important for the person whose birth number is
16 to remember. To find happiness in ways other than leadership at
the top (the Tower and the Crown) — to renounce fame and celebrity
— is another way of decreasing the negative aspect of the 16. Lincoln
did not choose to do so, feeling it was more important to attempt to
keep the nation united than to enjoy the fulfillment of a private life,
although he accepted the Presidency with much reluctance and a pro-
found sadness.

-- 318 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 255
17
The Star of the Magi
This is a highly spiritual number, and was expressed in sym-
bolism by the ancient Chaldeans as the 8-pointed Star of Venus. The
Star of the Magi is the image of Love and Peace, and promises that the
person or entity it represents will rise superior in spirit to the trials and
.
difficulties of earlier life, with the ability to conquer former failure in
personal relationships and the career. 17 is "the number of Immor-
tality," and indicates that the person's (or entity's) name will live after
him — (should one decide to die, that is, which is a choice, as you'll
learn in the Physical Immortality chapter). This is an extremely fortu-
nate Compound number, with one warning. It reduces to the Single
number 8, so it's important for anyone with 17 as a Compound Key
Number to carefully read the section about the numbers 4 and 8 at the
end of this chapter.
18 ,
Spiritual-Material Conflict
Of all Compound numbers, 18 has the most difficult symbolism
to translate. (Read again on an earlier page of this chapter the rela-
tionship of 18 to Jesus.) The ancients describe the Compound num-
ber 18 with the following image: "A rayed moon, from which drops of
blood are falling. A wolf and a hungry dog are seen below, catching
the falling drops of blood in their opened mouths, while still lower, a
crab is seen hastening to join them." 18 symbolizes materialism
striving to destroy the spiritual side of the nature. It often associates
the person or entity represented by it with bitter quarrels within the
. family circle — with wars, social upheaval, and revolution. In some
cases it indicates making money or achieving position through divisive
tactics, through war or other conflict. It warns of treachery and de-
ception from both "friends" and enemies; also danger from the ele-
ments, such as fire, flood, earthquakes, tempests and explosions,
electrical shock or lightning. If the Compound number of the name is

-- 319 of 676 --

256 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
an 18, the vibration should be negated immediately by changing the
spelling of the name to equal a more fortunate Compound number. If
the birth number is an 18, extreme caution and care must be taken to
meet the challenges and dangers of this Compound number. The
only way to dilute or diminish its effect on the life is by spiritual
means, by unfailingly and repeatedly meeting deception and hatred
from others with generosity, love, and forgiveness, by "turning the
other cheek," and returning good for evil, kindness for cruelty, hon-
esty for dishonesty, honor for dishonor. In this way, the vibration 18
may be used for great success in illumination and enlightenment.
Those born on the 18th day of any month have chosen themselves (on
the level of the Higher Setf), between incarnations, this channel of
birth (as did Jesus) as the greatest of all testings of the soul for worth-
iness. Another way to dilute the negative aspect of the 18 is to change
the number of the name (whatever number it may be) to any favorable
Compound number which adds or reduces to the single 6, by chang-
ing the spelling of the name. In addition to the attitude just coun-
seled, this will also help to turn the tragedy of the 18 into triumph.
Remember what weVe learned about the 6 (Love) always and without
exception conquering the 9 of conflict ? (1 plus 8 is 9.) Adding the 6
vibration (with its related number 3) was also chosen when the life
pattern of Jesus of Nazareth was planned, as I've already explained.
People born on the 18th day of any month would be wise to plan
everything of importance on the 3rd or 6th day of any month, or on a
day adding to the 3 or 6, especially the 6 — and to add the 6 vibration
to the life in every way possible, i.e.: addresses, telephone numbers,
and any other way they can think of (there are many) to emphasize
and increase the power of the number 6 in the personal life and ca-
reer. In this way may one be victorious, in both the spiritual and
material worlds, over the restrictions of the 18.

-- 320 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 257
19
The Prince of Heaven
19 is one of the most fortunate and favorable of all Compound
numbers. It is symbolized as the Sun, and is called the Prince of
Heaven because it indicates victory over all temporal failure and disap-
pointment. It blesses the person or entity represented by it with all of
the power of the Compound number 10, without the danger of abuse
inherent in the 10. This number promises happiness and fulfillment
— success in all ventures as well as in the personal life. Of course, if
19 is the same number, it must be considered along with the birth
number, which might not be as fortunate. So nothing is perfect, but
regardless of the influences of another, possibly negative number, the
19 will smooth the path and greatly dilute any negative vibrations one
must deal with in the full numerological analysis.
20
The Awakening
In addition to being called "The Awakening," this Compound
number is also pictured by the ancient Chaldeans as "The Judgment."
It has a peculiar interpretation, and is symbolized as "a winged angel,
sounding a trumpet, while from below, a man, woman, and child are
seen arising from a tomb, with* their hands clasped in prayer." At
some time in the experience of the person or entity represented by the
number 20, there is a powerful awakening, bringing a new purpose,
new plans, new ambitions — the call to action for some great cause or
ideal. There may be occasional delays and obstacles to one's plans,
but these may be conquered through developing patience (the chal-
lenge of the number 20) and by continually cultivating faith in one's
own powers to transform. 20 brings the blessing of vivid precognitive
dreams, plus the ability to manifest the happy ones and cancel the
negative ones. It is not a material number, therefore is doubtful re-
garding financial success. If large sums of money are necessary for
practical support of the new cause or ideal, then one may choose a

-- 321 of 676 --

258 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
more positive materialistic number by changing the spelling of the
name, assuming the 20 is the birth number. If the 20 is the name
number, then, hopefully, the birth number will bestow a more fortu-
nate financial vibration. However, those who are comfortable with
their 20 vibration seldom care about matters of finance. Money is not
important to them — and the 20 will, as a general rule, provide
enough for the basic necessities.
21
The Crown of the Magi
21 is pictured as "The Universe," and is also called "The Crown of
the Magi." It promises general success, and guarantees advancement,
honors, awards, and general elevation in the life and career. It indi-
cates victory after a long struggle, for the "Crown of the Magi" is
gained only after long initiation, much soul testing and various other
tests of determination. However, the person or entity blessed with the
number 21 may be certain of final victory over all odds and all opposi-
tion. It's a most fortunate vibration — a number of karmic reward.
22
Submission — and Caution
22 is symbolized by the ancients as "a Good Man, blinded by the
folly of others, with a knapsack on his back, full of errors." In the
image he seems to offer no defense against a ferocious tiger which is
about to attack him. It's a warning number of illusion and delusion.
It indicates a good person (or entity) who lives in a fool's paradise; a
dreamer of dreams who awakens only when surrounded by danger,
when it's often too late. It warns of mistakes in judgment, of placing
faith in those who are not trustworthy. If 22 is the birth number, the
person it represents should exercise caution and watchfulness (since
the birth number cannot be altered) in both career and personal mat-
ters. The karmic obligation here is to be more alert, to curb "spiritual
laziness," and develop more spiritual aggressiveness — to realize your
own power to change things, to prevent failure by simply ordaining

-- 322 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS "* 259
success. When this personal responsibility is recognized, practiced,
and finally mastered, the 22 person can be in control of events, no
longer blinded by the folly of others, and will see ideas achieved and
dreams realized. Anyone born on the 22nd day of any month needs
to carefully read the section about the numbers 4 and 8, beginning on
Page 269.
23
The Royal Star of the Lion
This is a karmic reward number. 23 bestows, not only a promise
of success in personal and career endeavors, it guarantees help from
superiors and protection from those in high places. It's a most fortu-
nate number, and greatly blesses with abundant grace the person or
entity represented by it. As always, the 23 must be considered along
with other Single and Compound Key Numbers making up the full
numerological analysis, which may not be quite so fortunate. But
other numbers don't have much of a chance to bring about serious
trouble when the Royal Star of the Lion is present during difficult
times. No number can challenge the Lion's strength and win.
24
Love — Money — Creativity
This number is also most fortunate, another Compound number
of karmic reward, justly earned in past incarnations, particularly when
it's the birth number. It promises the assistance of those with power,
and it indicates a close association with people of high rank and posi-
tion. It greatly increases financial success, and the ability to achieve
happiness in love. It denotes gain through romance, the law, or the
arts, and a magnetism which is extremely attractive to the opposite
sex. The only warning related to the 24 is self-indulgence and a cer-
tain arrogance in love, financial, and career matters, because every-
thing comes so effortlessly. It's wise to remember that if the 24 is
abused in the present life, it could revert to an L8 or some other
extremely difficult birth number in the next. So one is warned not to

-- 323 of 676 --

260 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
fail to appreciate the benefits of the 23 and the 24 Compound num-
bers, and not allow such good fortune to cause selfishness or a careless
attitude toward spiritual values. The temptation to indulge in promis-
cuity must be avoided; likewise a tendency to overindulgence of all
kinds.
25
Discrimination and Analysis
25 bestows spiritual wisdom gained through careful observation
of people and things, and worldly success .by learning through experi-
ence. Its strength comes from overcoming disappointments in the
early life and possessing the rare quality of learning from past mis-
takes. The judgment is excellent, but it's not a material number;
therefore, financial benefits of a substantial nature must be gained
through other Compound numbers in the full birth and name numer-
ological analysis.
26
Partnerships
This Compound number vibrates, in a strange way, to a unique
kind of power, based on compassion and unselfishness, with the abil-
ity to help others, but not always the Self. 26 is full of contradictions.
It warns of dangers, disappointments, and failure, especially regarding
the ambitions, brought about through bad advice, association with
others, and unhappy partnerships of all kinds. If 26 is the Compound
Key Number of the name, it might be best to change the name to
achieve a more fortunate influence. If 26 is the birth number, and
therefore cannot be altered, the person is counseled to avoid partner-
ships and pursue the career alone, not heeding even the well-inten-
tioned advice of others, but follow only the personal hunches and I
intuition — although these should be carefully examined for flaws
before acting on them. 26 people should begin at once to stabilize the
income, to save money, and not behave in an extravagant manner or
invest in other people's ideas. Invest in your own future, be generous

-- 324 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 261
with others, especially those in need, but also build a solid foundation
for the future for yourself. If your name is a 26, or if you were born on
the 26th day of the month, you should read carefully the section about
the numbers 4 and 8 at the end of this chaper. (2 plus 6 equals 8, so
26 = 8.) It's most important advice for you — or for anyone you
know whose name number is 4 or 8, or who was born on the 8th day
of the month — or any date that reduces to 4 or 8, such as the 13th,
17th, 22nd, 26th, or 31st.
27
The Sceptre
This is an excellent, harmonious, and fortunate number of cour-
age and power, with a touch of enchantment. It blesses the person or
entity it represents with a promise of authority and command. It
guarantees that great rewards will come from the productive labors,
the intellect, and the imagination, that the creative faculties have sown
good seeds which are certain to reap a rich harvest. People (or entities)
represented by the Compound number 27 should always carry out
their own original ideas and plans, and not be intimidated or influ-
enced by the diverse opinions or opposition of others. 27 is a number
of karmic reward, earned in more than one previous incarnation.
28
The Trusting Lamb
28 is a number of puzzling and frustrating contradictions. It
symbolizes a person (or entity) of fine promise, even genius, and great
possibilities, with the capability of achieving impressive success, and
the 28 person frequently does realize such success, only to see every-
thing taken away unless he or she has carefully provided for the fu-
ture. It indicates loss through misplaced trust in. others, powerful
opposition from enemies and competitors in business or career, dan-
ger of serious losses in courts of law — and the possibility of having to
begin the life path over and over again. If 28 is the name number, one
might wish to change the spelling to achieve a more harmonious and

-- 325 of 676 --

262 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
fortunate number. When 28 is the birth number and therefore can't
be altered, the karmic lessons of prudence, caution, and well-laid
plans must be learned and practiced. When this is done, the negative
aspect of the 28 vibration will be substantially diluted. The key is to
look before you leap.
29
Grace Under Pressure
The 29 is a number of perhaps the heaviest Karma of all. It tests
the person or entity it represents for spiritual strength, through trials
and tribulations echoing the Old Testament story of Job. The life is
filled with uncertainties, treachery and deception from others, unreli-
able friends, unexpected dangers — and considerable grief and anx-
iety caused by members of the opposite sex. It's a number of grave
warnings in every area of the personal life and career. When 29 is the
Compound Key Number of the name, it's obvious that the spelling of
the name should be changed to lift this difficult vibration, unless one
is a masochist.
If 29 is the birth number, and thereby unavoidable, conscious
effort must be made to dilute and eventually to negate, neutralize, or
erase this karmic burden. It can, to a great extent, be eased by choos-
ing a new name (or spelling) with a strongly positive Compound Key
Number. Further than this, the person born on the 29th day of any
month should do everything advised in Chaper 4 concerning Karma
and reincarnation.
In the specific instance of the 29 vibration (bringing with it also
the secondary vibration of 1 1, which should also be read regarding the
way to relieve the karmic burden) — remember that the development
of absolute faith in goodness and the power of the Self ... the constant
and energetic cultivation of optimism . . . will act as a miraculous
medicine for the problems of the number 29.
After all, Job's burdens were finally lifted, when he had learned to
accept full responsibility for his troubles, and not to blame others or

-- 326 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS • 263
seek revenge for the hurts he suffered, Not only did his long bad-luck
streak end at last, he was given back everything, he'd lost, several times
over. So, if you were born on the 29th, change the vibration of your
name to a powerful number, such as 19, follow Job's example, and
soon you'll be as happy as — or happier than — anyone else. Inter-
estingly, the name "Job" equals the powerful Compound number 10
— a difficult vibration to defeat.
30
The Loner — Meditation
This is a number of retrospection, thoughtful deduction, and
mental superiority over others. However, it belongs completely to the
mental plane, and those represented by it often put all material things
to the side, not because they have to, but because they wish to do so.
Consequently the Compound number 30 is neither fortunate nor un-
fortunate, because it can be either, depending entirely upon the desire
of the person (or entity) it represents. The vibration of 30 can be all-
powerful, but it is often indifferent, according to the will of the per-
son. Those whose name equals 30, or who were born on the 30th day
of any month, generally count few people as their friends. They tend
to be taciturn loners, preferring to be alone with their own thoughts.
Social functions and public gatherings are not their style. 30 doesn't
deny happiness or success, but fulfillment is more often found in re-
treating from the chaos of the market place, so that one's mental supe-
riority may be used to develop something worthwhile to the world . . .
to write ideas which may change the world ... or to protect and
develop one's personal talents, such as art or other gifts. It indicates a
lonely, yet frequently rewarding life pattern.
31
The Recluse — the Hermit
Those whose birth or name number is 31 should first read the
analysis of the foregoing Compound number 30, because the 31 is

-- 327 of 676 --

264 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
very similar to it, except that the person (or entity) represented by this
number is even more self-contained, self-sufficient, lonely, and iso-
lated from others. Quite often, genius is present, or at least high intel-
ligence. At some unexpected time in the life, the glittering promises
of the world will be suddenly rejected for the peace and quiet of Na-
ture, or, if the response to the 31 is not quite that pronounced, there
will nevertheless eventually be a degree of retreat from society in some
manner. The 31 person is sometimes opinionated, an advocate of
political change, while remaining fixed in personal habits. Even in a
crowd, a 31 person will often feel a sense of loneliness and isolation!
32
Communication
This Compound number has the same magical power to sway
masses of people as the 14, the same help from those in high positions
as the 23. Add all this to the natural ability to charm others with
magnetic speech, and it's clear why 32 is sometimes known, by mod-
ernizing the symbolism of the ancients as "the politician's vibration."
The complexities of advertising, writing, publishing, radio, and televi-
sion are not always, but usually are an open book to the 32 person,
who tends to work well under pressure. But there's a warning note
sounded within this seemingly happy melody. 32 is a very fortunate
number if the person it represents holds inflexibly to his or her own
opinions and judgment in both artistic or intangible matters and mate-
rial matters. If not, the plans are liable to be wrecked by the stubborn-
jiess and stupidity of others.
33
This number has no individual meaning of its own, but carries
the same vibration as the 24 — except that the magic of love, the
extent of originality and creativity, and the promise of eventual finan-
cial success are deepened and increased. Due to the double 3, people
whose name equals 33 are more fortunate in every way when involved
in a harmonious partnership of some kind with the opposite sex,

-- 328 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 265
which applies to the career as well as to romantic and marital relation-
ships. This a number of well-deserved karmic reward. 33 people are
advised not to abuse the astounding luck which will descend on them
at sometime during the life by allowing it to tempt them into laziness,
overconfidence, and a feeling of superiority. When a sense of humor
and genuine humility accompany the 33 vibration, it's a wonderfully
fortunate number.
34 Has the same meaning as the number 25.
35 Has the same meaning as the number 26.
36 Has the same meaning as the number 27.
37
This number has a distinct potency of its own. It's associated
with an extremely sensitive nature — good and fortunate friendships
— a strong magnetism with the public, often in the area of the Arts —
and productive partnerships of all kinds. It places an emphasis on
love and romance, and sometimes too much emphasis on sexuality.
Attitudes toward sex may be unconventional (but this aspect may not
always be present). There is a pronounced need for harmony in rela-
tionships. Happiness and success are more easily attained when in
partnerships with another rather than when operating alone as a single
individual.
38 Has the same meaning as the numbers 11 and 29.
39 Has the same meaning as the number 30.
40 Has the same meaning as the number 31.
41 Has the same meaning as the number 32.
42 Has the same meaning as the number 24.
43
The ancients claim that this is an unfortunate number, and if the
name equals a 43, the spelling should be changed to equal a more

-- 329 of 676 --

266 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
fortunate Compound number. It is symbolized by the tendency
toward revolution, upheaval, strife, conflict, and war. It carries the
vibration of repeated disappointment and failure.
44 Has the same meaning as the number 26.
45 Has the same meaning as the number 27.
46 Has the same meaning as the number 37.
47 Has the same meaning as the number 29.
48 Has the same meaning as the number 30.
49 Has the same meaning as the number 31.
50 Has the same meaning as the number 32.
51
This number possesses a strong potency of its own. It's associ-
ated with the nature of the warrior, and promises sudden advance-
ment in whatever one undertakes. It is especially favorable for those
who need protection in military or naval life, and for the leaders of any
"cause" unrelated to war. Yet, it also brings the threat of dangerous
enemies and the possibility of attempted assassination; therefore, it is
clearly wise, should the name equal 51, to change the spelling to equal
a safer Compound number — and forget the glory.
52 Has the same meaning as the number 43.
******
Notice that the Compound numbers end with the number 52.
This is the reason given by the ancients. It's somewhat obtuse, but I
didn't invent numerology, and since I've tested it, discovered that it
works, and that it's a helpful and reliable guide, I don't try to penetrate
all the veils of mystery around it.
According to the Chaldeans, when you pass the root number 9,

-- 330 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 267
you multiply 9 until the Compound number 45 is reached. Then you
add the mystical 7 to the 45, producing 52, which represents the 52
weeks in our calendar year. When the 52 is then multiplied by the
mystical 7, it produces the number 364, equaling the number of days
in a year in ancient times. The Chaldeans used the 365th day of the
year as the one great festival holiday (holy day), when no work was
allowed to be performed by man, woman, child, or animal.
You may be thinking that you know as little after reading the
foregoing as you did when you started. But there it is, for those who
are simultaneously mathematically and spiritually inclined. Whether
or not you comprehend the reason for the rule, it must be observed.
The Compound numbers stop at 52.
All Compound numbers reached through your calculations that
are higher than 52 must be added to reach a new Single and/or Com-
pound number. Example: 53 and 63 reduce to the Single numbers 8
and 9 respectively. Another example: 74 and 87 reduce to the Com-
pound numbers 11 and 15 respectively. So when you're dealing with
a name that produces a Compound Key Number past 52, you must
use the Single or Compound number it equals when you add the two
numbers of the Compound number past 52.
You may need some more examples. If the Compound Key
Niftnber of your name is higher than the number 52, you must find a
new number as follows:
53 = the Single Key Number 8. No Compound Key Number.
54 = the Single Key Number 9. No Compound Key Number.
55 = the Single Key Number 1. The Compound Key Number 10.
56 = the Single Key Number 2. The Compound Key Number 11.
57 = the Single Key Number 3. The Compound Key Number 12.
58 - the Single Key Number 4. The Compound Key Number 13.

-- 331 of 676 --

268 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
59 = the Single Key Number 5. The Compound Key Number 14.
60 = the Single Key Number 6. No Compound Key Number.
and so on . . .
It's interesting to note that the ancients say: When the Com-
pound Key Number of the name is higher than the number 52 — and
will not be added to equal a new Compound Key Number (such as in
the above examples of 53 — 54 — and 60) it indicates a person who
has paid most of his or her karmic debts, and has less Karma to bal-
ance out than the average person. Naturally, this will not hold true
when you personally decide to change the spelling of your name your-
self; it applies only to a name given to you by destiny, i.e.: the name
your parents bestowed on you, guided by their own Higher Selves.
(Compound Numbers represent one's Karma.)
The Compound Key Number of the day of birth, of course, is not
involved in this rule, since the highest compound birth number is 31.

-- 332 of 676 --

Four and Eight . . .
the Numbers of Fate and Destiny

-- 333 of 676 --

270 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
These are known (especially when combined) as the "Numbers of
Fate" and the "Numbers of Karma" and hard luck seems to pursue
those whose lives are dominated by the 4 and the 8.
When the 4 or the 8 is the Single number of the day of birth, such
as the 4th, 8th, 13th, 17th, 22nd, 26th, or 31st, the number has been
chosen by the person it represents in the wiser state of grace between
incarnations. The Higher Self (soul or spirit), realizing that there are
heavy karmic debts to be balanced, which have been delayed or pro-
crastinated for too many lifetimes, chooses the magnetic birth channel
of the 4 or the 8 to insure that these long overdue karmic obligations
are faced and finally neutralized. On the level of awareness between
incarnations, the full import of the karmic chain is comprehended.
It's somewhat analogous to the decision of a student who has
continually postponed studying for exams or a test, and as the dead-
line draws near recognizes that it's time to get serious and make up for
the procrastination — no more fun weekends, no more stalling or
goofing off. It's "cram time" — time for extra-hard study and atten-
tion to scholastic obligations.
Naturally, one can't avoid the 4 or 8 vibration as a birth number,.
nor should one be able to, since the 4 or the 8 guarantees that the
person influenced by it will be placed involuntarily in specific situa-
tions where particular Karma will be balanced in the present exis-
tence. Therefore, you might think it unwise to try to remove any
further 4 or 8 influence from your life, because its purpose for being
there is so spiritually sound. But this is not necessarily true.
The Single number of the name being a 4 or an 8 is an entirely
different matter, since one doesn't choose one's own name (except in
certain religions). The parents choose the name (guided subcon-
sciously by the powerful influence of the 4 or 8 birth number — or
else blindly choose a name with this vibration for no good reason) —
and the person bears it, for better or for worse. Therefore, to change
the spelling of the name so that it equals a more fortunate Single

-- 334 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 271
number is not unduly interfering with Karma. It's a free will choite —
and a sensible way, if this be the desire, of making an individual's path
in the present existence considerably smoother and less fatalistic.
When 4 or 8 is the birth number, care should be taken to avoid
the numbers 4 and 8 in all other ways, such as address and phone
numbers which add to a Compound number that can be reduced to
the single 4 or 8 — and to avoid taking important action or planning
significant events on dates equaling either of these two numbers, such
as the 4th, 8th, 13th, 17th, 22nd, 26th, or 31st. Most people can
handle the 4 or 8 vibration alone. It's the combination of them — the
doubling up and increasing the power of the 4 and the 8 that becomes
powerfully fatalistic, and causes these unfortunate people to attract far
more than their share of bad luck, losses, heartbreak, and
disappointments.
Let's consider the two numbers separately, since there's a degree
or two of difference between them. We'll begin with, the 8.
People whose birth number is 8 seem to be influenced by a more
pronounced fatalistic vibration. They are more "children of Fate" than
the 4 people. They can be just as strong of character, as noble, de-
voted, hard-working, and self-sacrificing as others (and frequently
even more so) but may feel that they don't receive the rewards they're
entitled to or the recognition they deserve. The road to success is a
hard one, strewn with obstacles. Although they often manage to rise
to a position of high authority, it burdens them with stressful respon-
sibilities, great anxiety, and long hours. 8 people not infrequently
manage to accumulate wealth (in fact, the accumulation of wealth at
some time in the life is a definite part of the 8 influence — depending
on the position of Jupiter in the birth chart) — but the wealth may not
bring any real or lasting happiness. In addition, 8 people are often
required to pay too high a price for love, which almost invariably
brings with it suffering of some kind.
Here's an example: A man born on the 8th, 17th, or 26th day of

-- 335 of 676 --

272 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
the month marries a woman born on the 4th, 13th, 22nd, or 31st day
of the month (or whose name equals the single number 4). By thus
combining the 4 and the 8, the power of these numbers is increased,
and the 8 man will experience many blows of fate, mental tension, and
emotional sadness in the married state.
Under the law of magnetic attraction, 4 and 8 people seem to be
irresistibly drawn together in all kinds of relationships: love, marriage,
friendships, and business associations — relatives and relatives by
marriage. The combination cannot be called fortunate, at least not in
a worldly sense, although it's common for 4 and 8 people to demon-
strate a deep devotion to one another (or one does, to an almost fanati-
cal degree, even when the other doesn't). "For better or for worse, 1
especially during times of illness or other misfortune. Some of the
greatest examples of self-sacrifice in history are found when 8 and 4
people marry. The most pronounced aspect about this combination
in marriage is sacrifice of some kind. Yet, great good can come from
such suffering; the couple can create unusually gifted children — or
produce the legacy of classical music, poetry, memorable writing of
books, plays, and so forth.
The 8 people who observe the numbers 8 and 4 continually in-
fluencing the life regarding dates of important events, telephone num-
bers, addresses, etc., associated with sorrow, disappointment, and bad
luck, should avoid these numbers whenever possible, by changing the
spelling of the name (if it equals the Single number 4 or 8) — ad-
dresses, telephone numbers, and the like, which add to a Compound
number that reduces to a 4 or an 8. They should avoid keeping im-
portant engagements or planning significant events on the 4th, 8th,
13th, 17th, 22nd, 26th, or 31st day of the month — and alter these to
produce the single number 6 (including the name number if neces-
sary). The 8 person should try to carry out all important plans on the
6th or the 24th day of the month, but not the 6 reached through the
Compound number 15. Read the reason for this in the analysis of 15
under the Compound number definitions.

-- 336 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 273
8 people who follow this advice, who alter the 4's and 8's in their
lives to the single number 6, will substantially reduce their "bad luck,"
and be able to control the curious fate that seems to follow them.
They may not, however, be able to avoid all relationships with
other 4 or 8 people, because most of these are karmic obligations
which must be dealt with and balanced. Most of the 8 person's close
friends, business associates, and relatives will usually be a 4 or an 8 by
birth, or have names which equal one of these two numbers.
The 4-8 vibration is increased if the 8 person is a Sun Sign Capri-
corn or Aquarian, since 8 is the number of Saturn (ruler of Capricorn)
and 4 is the number of Uranus (ruler of Aquarius).
A most important thing to remember is this: Some 8 people may
prefer to carry out the full force and meaning of the 8 influence, not
fearing the consequences, because they feel that forewarned, they can
handle the negative aspect of the 8 — and they wish to increase the
power of wealth, stability, responsibility, and so forth that the 8 influ-
ence brings. Should an 8 person make such a decision, then they
should try to do everything important on the 8th,. 17th, and 26th days
of the month, and if the birth number is 8, they should change the
spelling of the name to likewise equal a single 8 (but not in such a way
that it equals the Compound 26). In doing this, they'll greatly in-
crease their chances for material success, but they will lead curiously
fatalistic lives, seeming to be "stamped by fate" on whatever path of life
they choose.
However, those 8 people who choose to increase the power of the
8 in their lives rather than avoid it must take care to avoid the number
4 whenever possible — because it's the combination of these two
numbers that brings strong magnetic negative influences to bear upon
them.
This is why the 4 people should not, under any circumstances,
increase the power of Che number 4, since a double 4 equals an 8.

-- 337 of 676 --

274 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
They should avoid, once again, the combination of these two num-
bers. And because an extra 4 here and there, along with the birth
number of 4 (born on the 4th, 13th, 22nd or 31st) will bring, by
addition, the 8 influence to bear, creating the very combination the
ancients warn to avoid.
According to the Chaldeans, the number 4 as a birth influence is
not quite so heavy an influence as the birth number 8. People with 4
as a birth number will find that the 4th, 13th, 22nd, and 31st days of
the month are of major significance in both their business and per-
sonal affairs — sometimes in a negative sense, yet equally as often in a
positive sense. Their own addresses and phone numbers and the like
— and the dates of birth of people close to them (especially relatives,
since the 4-8 combination greatly influences group family Karma) will
be 4's or 8's far more often than can be attributed to coincidence. If
your birth number is 4, check into it, and you'll be surprised.
Example: 1003 Main Street (a 4); Phone: 689-2402 (adds to 31,
reduces to 4). Either with or without the area code, and sometimes
both ways.
A rare few who have chosen the number 4 as the birth channel
are illuminated souls who have erased all past Karma by balancing it
in previous lives, and have incarnated in the present existence to
"rescue" a Twin Self who has become — or in danger of becoming — a
fallen angel. In such cases, the 4 vibration is chosen to aid in keeping
this person on the path of light; to lessen the temptation to form new,
negative Karma, thereby also becoming a fallen angel in the attempt to
rescue the fallen other half of the Self.
In this instance, the 4 is an extremely protective influence — and
in all other cases (which form the majority of the 4 people) the 4 is not
so much to be dreaded as to be recognized as a helpful means to
discipline one's self in the present incarnation, which is not a negative
situation, but quite positive in a spiritual sense.

-- 338 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 275
* * * **
Numerology and Death Predictions
A famed numerologist who called himself Cheiro, extremely pop-
ular in America and abroad during the first part of the twentieth cen-
tury, was, in my opinion, a brilliant professional in a technical sense,
but was a dangerously negative practitioner. His books contain a gen-
erous sprinkling of his boasting about how he successfully predicted
the exact day of death for numerous clients (mostly royal figures and
world celebrities) — either their own deaths, or the deaths of their
mates and parents, and so forth. Cheiro possessed the serious flaw of
esoteric fatalism, which has caused thousands of people to (justifiably)
fear astrology and numerology. (He was also an astrologer.)
Death can no more be prognosticated by numerology than by
astrology, and if Cheiro was correct on several well-publicized occa-
sions, it was due to the unfortunate result of the deplorable practice by
esoteric professionals of planting a negative seed in the mind of the
individual, which has the magnetic power to actually bring about the
feared event. It's a form of hypnosis, and has the power to cause
things to happen that would never have happened with the proper
guidance. Those who make such predictions to the. people who trust-
ingly look to them for counsel are the direct cause of the unnecessary
deaths they program into the trusting minds they advise. To face the
truth of it, such counselors are guilty of unintentional murder.
Never have faith in a numerologist or an astrologer who claims to
predict the death of anyone. It's simply not possible. But it is possible
for such deaths to occur through the fulminating growth of fear. On
those occasions when the ethical professional sees a dangerous period
coming up for an individual, whether it's an ordinary person, a King,
or a President, his or her responsibility is to warn the person of the
approaching testing period — and instruct the person what to do to avoid

-- 339 of 676 --

276 -fr kINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
any serious or fatal experience. And remember that such "tricky" tran-
sits occur in everyone's life periodically, with a fair amount of fre-
quency; therefore, you obviously sidestep them by rechanneling the
indicated planetary energy, or you wouldn't still be here.
This "death prediction" situation so intensely concerns me that I
feel you may need a specific illustration. I've already told you that I
consider Cheiro to have been a brilliant numerologist, but also a most
fatalistic one. There are some rules of numerology he recommends
that I strongly disagree with, and consequently will not be giving you
in this chapter, but these are in the minority. Most, even if not all, of
his teachings are insightful and reliable. But you have to take the
"whole cake" into consideration before taking a large bite, if you see
the analogy.
For example, Cheiro (and he's not by any means the only esoteric
professional, astrologer or numerologist, guilty of such behavior) had
several sessions with King Edward VII of England. King Edward was
born on November 9th. Therefore, the Single Key Number of his
birth was 9. His marriage took place in the year 1863, which Cheiro
added to get another 9. He was supposed to have been crowned on
the 27th of June (which reduces to 9), and was actually crowned on
August 9th, making another 9.
Now, there's no doubt that King Edward's Single Key Number of
birth was the Number 9, and it follows all the rules of numerological
harmony that important events would occur in his life on "9 days,"
such as the 9th, 18th, and 27th. But Cheiro dove into very muddy
esoteric waters when he took it further, realizing the strange link I've
already told you about concerning the 3, 6, and 9.
He decided, for inexplicable reasons of his own, that since there
is a mysterious connection between 6 and 9 (which I've explained) j
that Edward would die when these two root numbers "came together"
— that the age of 69 would be a fatal year for the King. He went even
further, and decided that since 6 is the number of Taurus, and the

-- 340 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 277
month of Taurus is May, that King Edward's death would come on
May 6th, in his 69th year.
Cheiro repeatedly made this fatal prediction to Edward VII, to the
point that the King began referring to Cheiro as "the man who won't
permit me to live past 69." Over and over, in various meetings with
the King, Cheiro reinforced his death prediction, and even Cheiro
himself stated that "the King never forgot the fatal prediction."
On May 6th, in his 69th year, King Edward suddenly became ill
— and died. Cheiro notes this "successful prediction," among others,
in all of his books.- What happened is painfully obvious. King Ed-
ward was powerfully hypnotized, his subconscious deeply pro-
grammed with the negative seed that his death would occur on May
6th, in his 69th year. And so, he obliged. It happened for absolutely
no reason at all except for the programming initiated and constantly rein-
forced by his numerologist. I'm sure Cheiro never realized that he was
guilty of the King's death, and I'm equally sure that wasn't his inten-
tion; however, the truth is the truth — and ignorance is not, to me, an
acceptable excuse.
Just think how many people were born on the 9th day of the
month, people to whom important events happened on the 9th, 18th,
or 27th. According to Cheiro 's flawed reasoning, they must all die
during a month ruled by 6 — on the 6th day of that month — when
they reached the age of 69. And I don't need to tell you how ridicu-
lous that is. Cheiro based his prediction of death on a misinterpreta-
tion of the link between 6 and 9, which has no basis in fact
whatsoever, in any esoteric sense. The same kind of weak and false
premises are used by astrologers who claim to predict death.
Poor Edward was actually hypnotized into fulfilling this false
death prediction. This true story proves again what you should never
forget — the awesome power of the mind. What you believe will
happen — will happen. What you fear will inevitably come upon you.
You can change your so-called "destiny" by simply changing your

-- 341 of 676 --

2.78 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
thoughts. Your thoughts create your environment and all the events
taking place in it, whether you want to believe that or not. It's not
enough to just change your thoughts, however. A great deal of nega-
tive can be transmuted into positive that way, but you must also try to
balance your Karma in all the ways explained in the Deja Vu chapter.
Remember that death is an event which is positively, one hundred
percent controlled by your own will. You are the only person who
knows when you will die. Not only when — but if.
******

-- 342 of 676 --

The Mysteries
of the
Number Twelve

-- 343 of 676 --

280 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
Before we close this chapter about numerology, we should spend
some time together studying the various codes of the Compound
Number 12. I don't mean the analysis of 12 in the Compound Num-
ber definitions which relates to an individual's Karma, but the number
11 itself.
On the East, three Gates; on the North, three Gates; on
the South, three Gates; on the West, three Gates. And
the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and in them
the names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb.
Revelations 21: 13
There are 12 astrological signs, from Aries through Pisces. The
Earth makes one orbit of the Sun through these 12 signs in the same
amount of time the Moon takes to orbit the Earth 12 times. The
planet Jupiter is larger than all the other planets in our solar system
combined, and Jupiter takes about 12 years to complete one orbit of
the Sun.
All great spiritual leaders have had 12 followers. The 12 tribes of
Israel were founded by the 12 sons of Jacob. The people of Greece
worshipped 12 gods, and there were 12 princes of Ishmael. The great
Osiris of Egypt had 12 followers — and the Aztec Quetzalcoatl had 12
disciples. There are 12 gods in the Brahman Zodiac.
King Arthur had 12 Knights of the Round Table. Buddha had 12
disciples. There were 12 altars of St. James and 12 divisions of Sol-
omon's Temple.
A Board of Directors is composed of 12 executives, and there are
12 men and women on a jury. There are 12 basic mineral salts in
homeopathic medicine. When gold is weighed, there are 12 ounces
to the pound; likewise with the weighing of drug?. There are 12
inches in a foot. Most fascinating of all, the Earth's minerals are also
ruled by the number 12. For example, all diamonds have 12 sides
and must be cut along these 12 axes.
As we know, Jesus chose 12 disciples (the Single 3 again in his

-- 344 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 281
life: See Pages 197-198). As with all spiritual leaders and their fol-
lowers, Jesus was the 13th — or the Master. Each of the 12 apostles
represents one of the 12 Sun Signs, the 13th is the Master, who has
learned to combine the positive qualities of each of the 12 Sun Signs,
and to conquer the negative traits of each. The Master combines the
courage and innocence of Aries with the patience and stability of Tau-
rus, the versatility and mental alertness of Gemini, the sensitivity and
protectiveness of Cancer, the nobility, generosity, and love of Leo, the
exquisite discrimination of Virgo, the fairness and justice of Libra, the
depth of knowledge of Scorpio, the honesty and idealism of Sagit-
tarius, the endurance and wisdom of Capricorn, the prophetic vision
and tolerance of Aquarius, and the compassion and enlightenment of
Pisces.
He has learned to cast away the rash, impulsive behavior of Aries,
the stubbornness of Taurus (which is only Taurus patience turned
inside out), the irresponsibility of Gemini, the fears and possessiveness
of Cancer, the arrogance of Leo, the critical hair-splitting of Virgo, the
indecision of Libra, the revenge and retaliation of Scorpio, the blunt
speech of Sagittarius, the coldness and ambition of Capricorn, the
unpredictable behavior of Aquarius, and the evasiveness, timidity, and
deception of Pisces. Do you see now why the number 13 (the Master)
is not really "unlucky," as most people mistakenly believe ?
Legend claims that each apostle (disciple) was the full embodi-
ment (positive and negative blend) of a particular Sun Sign. Legend
further claims that Peter, as you might guess, was an impulsive, fiery
Aries. (I can't recall which one was a Leo, but since it wasn't Peter,
then he surely had a Leo Ascendent or Moon !) The unfortunate
Judas (using the negative side of the sign) was a Scorpio. John, the
Beloved, was a Pisces — Thomas, the Doubter, a Virgo — and so on.
Paul was a Gemini, and that certainly makes sense. Glib Paul,
with such a gift of verbal persuasion that he pulled off the nearly
impossible mission of the necessity to teach the Jews that circumcision
was "a requirement for salvation" — and the equal necessity to preach

-- 345 of 676 --

282 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
to the Gentiles" that it was not an absolute requirement to be saved.
Read Pauls Letters to the Romans — Chapter 2, Verses 25 through 29
— to see how Mercury-sly he was in handling this contradiction. I
can't read it myself without laughing aloud at his mental adroitness
and typical Gemini "double talk." In a holy cause, of course.
Some extremely intelligent and respected metaphysicians of an-
cient times have claimed that John the Baptist was a Scorpio prophet,
with a fiery Sagittarian Moon or Ascendent, and there's no argument
that he was blunt and outspoken. Considering this eccentric "life-
style," he must have had several planets in Aquarius also.
These same esoteric scholars have alleged that Mary the Mother
and Mary Magdalene were both Aries — and there have been several
books written by astronomers (I'm trying to locate one a Guru of mine
told me about), claiming that Jesus himself (although finally the Mas-
ter of all 12 Sun Signs) was by birth a Leo, due to errors in various
calendars of past and present. The authors point out that in addition
to the calendar errors they calculated, the shepherds would not have
been "tending their flocks" when the Angel appeared to them — in
winter months. They say that late July and August was the most likely
period when they would have been camping out with their sheep in
the hills and highlands of Jerusalem, Nazareth, and Bethlehem, as only
one of several evidences of the credibility of their claim that Jesus was
bom a Lion.
Their concept substantiates Rudolf Steiner's inspired revelation
that Mary the Mother and Mary Magdalene were split pieces of the:
soul, spirit, or "Higher Self of Isis, the Twin Self of Osiris, who was
murdered and dismembered into 14 pieces by his brother, Set —
because it's claimed that each time a "piece" of the spirit or soul of
Osiris is incarnated, it has been decreed that such a birth be under the:
sign of Leo, the Lion, ruled by the Sun — and Jesus of Nazareth is said
to be one of the incarnated 14 pieces of Osiris. (Osiris was called thel
"Sun god.") Likewise with "the two Marys," prophesied to be incar-
nated each time under the sign of Aries the Ram ruled by Mars. Each

-- 346 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 283
incarnation of the "two Marys" is said to be a$ both mother and mate to
each incarnation of each of the 14 pieces of Osiris. Two of my Gurus
have taught me that this prophecy should be considered to mean
either a Leo Sun Sign or a- Leo Ascendent — and either an Aries Sun
Sign or an Aries Ascendent.
There are two Fixed Stars (among others such as Castor, Pollux,
Arcturus, etc.) astronomers have named Isis and Osiris. These two
Fixed Stars, Isis and Osiris, have been astronomically charted in their
movements as having approached near Earth on only two occasions in
the historically recorded past: at the time of the birth of the babe in
Bethlehem — and at the time of the birth of Francesco Bernadone (St.
Francis of Assisi). This is claimed to indicate that both Jesus and
Francis of Assisi were incarnations of one of the 14 pieces of Osiris.
Metaphysicians say that both King Arthur and Lancelot (Camelot was
not myth, but a reality in a never-recorded past) were themselves each
a piece of the soul or spirit of Osiris — and that Guinevere and the
mother of Arthur were themselves each one of the two split soul pieces
of Isis. Isis, her soul split into 2 pieces, is also said to have been
incarnated as both Claire Faverone (Francesco's "Lady Poverty") and
the Lady Pica, mother of Francesco — again lending support to the
continual reincarnation of Isis as "both mother and 'mate,' or love,' of
each incarnated piece of Osiris." This explains clearly the terrible
"pull" on Guinevere in choosing between Arthur and Lancelot, since
her own Higher Self recognized them both as reincarnated pieces of
Osiris.
Evidently, the Fixed Stars called Isis and Osiris also approached
near the Earth in their movements back in uncharted antiquity at the
time of the true Camelot. Now astronomers have charted the move-
ment of these two Fixed Stars to approach near the Earth for the third
time during the Aquarian Age.
The latter supports the legend that at sometime during the
Aquarian Age, the 14 pieces of Osiris will be reincarnated in one man,
who shall then be reunited with Isis, her own two split soul pieces

-- 347 of 676 --

284 • LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
reincarnated in one woman. Then, according to prophecy, t;he two of
them shall spread the Light of Love and Pax et Bonum into Earth's
darkness, at history's twilight hour, initiating the promised "two thou-
sand years of Peace," to begin during the latter part of the Aquarian
Age.
Part of the Isis'Osiris legend is that the concept for many of the
world's greatest musical compositions, operas, and literary works (in-
cluding Shakespeare) were seeded into the minds of these composers
and authors by the Masters of Karma, so that particular compositions,
operas, and literary works would enlighten in the still sleeping Higher
Consciences of Earthlings different facets of the star-crossed love story
of the Twin Selves of Isis and Osiris, which I plan to relate in a future
work.
Among these are said to be (only a partial list) Madame Butterfly
and her Lieutenant Pinkerton . . . Tristan and Isolde (the names *
"Tristan" and "Isolde" even contain the words "Isis" and "Osiris"
within them) . . . Titania and Oberon, of A Midsummer Night's Dream
. . . Romeo and Juliet . . . Hamlet and Ophelia . . . and a number of
others. Notice that the name "Osiris" contains within it the letters of
the name "Isis." He shall always protect her spirit within his own —
and they may never be permanently Earth-separated.
It is further both prophesied and decreed that the joined spirits of
Isis and Osiris, during the early portion of the Aquarian Age, will not
be identified or recognized as their true selves, to prevent an encore of
the dark sins of "divinity" and "worship" — and may not even them-
selves be aware of their true identities, but will nevertheless work
together in harmony to begin to spread the Light and Love of Pax et
Bonum (Peace and Good) into the darkness.
If those legends are true, it certainly is encouraging. Like the old,
familiar carol, "Joy to the World" ! Mother Earth can surely use such
an approaching benevolence to heal her deep and nearly fatal

-- 348 of 676 --

WHILE THE SOUL SLUMBERS * 285
wounds. It can't be repeated too often that the number 6 (Love) will
always be victorious over the number 9 (war .and conflict), in both
numerology and mathematics. The legends and the message of num-
bers fit perfectly together, like the completion of a jigsaw puzzle.
* * * * A *

-- 349 of 676 --



-- 350 of 676 --

6
FORGOTTEN RAINBOWS
the power of Color in your life ; . .
the human aura ...
permanent weight gain and weight loss
through Color . . . and other magics —
including the power
of gems and crystals.
*

-- 351 of 676 --

288 LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
maybe Rembrandt and da Vinci's jeweled colors
were real . . . not just painted
the way life looks through crystals of tenderness
you smiled at me tonight
at the bottom of the stairs
with so much love in your eyes
all you said was . . .
"let's walk in the woods tomorrow, at sunrise
just you and me . . . alone
before the world's awake
I'll show you
how to make a deer come near
by remaining very, very still
projecting kindness"
and all I said was . . .
"I'll set the alarm for five"
but we were stained glass
ruby red and cobalt blue
and the choir was singing
* * * * * *
ll those who deeply love seem to be fine-tuned to
the colors of the spectrum, because they're vibrating
to a higher frequency. Reds are redder, blues are
bluer, and yellows are more brilliant. In fact, all the
senses are thus heightened by love. Fragrances are
more hypnotic, music more inspiring, food tastes better, and the sense
of touch is more intense. Twin Selves vibrate to an even higher fre-
quency than other lovers or mates, and can often see one another's
etheric halos or auras.

-- 352 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN RAINBOWS * 289
One of the forgotten rainbows is the human aura. Extending
approximately two to four inches and outlining the head and body is
what is called the etheric. Depending on conditions in your spiritual
self, the etheric is seen as either smoke grey, blue, white, pale yellow
or gold, and is more easily perceived by the physical eye than the aura
itself. Beyond the etheric is your aura, containing every color of the
rainbow spectrum, some brilliant, some muddy, in all shades of each.
It measures anywhere from three to five feet in circumference. Your
aura is the you-of-you, completely individual, reflecting the condition
of your astral body, which continually impresses itself upon your
physical body.
Plants and animals (even objects) also have auras. Under the
right conditions, you can see it with physical vision, usually peripheral
— or with the Third Eye, or pineal gland, located in the center of your
forehead, between your eyebrows. The Nazarene's statement, "Let
those who have eyes, see; let those who have ears, hear," refers to this
Third Eye and to the Inner Ear, where is heard the clear, small voice of
your Higher Sett. Your aura is a large, ovoid or egg-shaped radiance
surrounding your entire body, front, back and sides, the colors within
it precisely reflecting your mental and emotional state and your phys-
ical health, constantly changing. It's your own personal rainbow . . .
or dark cloud of depression and illness.
Once upon a time, long ago, many people could see one an-
other's auras, and nearly everyone could^perceive at least the etheric.
The latter is the origin of the halo, passed down by story and legend,
therefore shown around the heads of religious figures by the master
painters of the past, who themselves were open channels for Higher
Masters to express truth. Earthlings have long since lost the ability to
see the aura, or even the etheric, although there are a rare few today
who have retained the gift in their present incarnations. The beloved
mystic of Virginia Beach, Edgar Cayce, was one of these. He saw the
complete aura around everyone when he was a child, and was startled
to eventually learn that others couldn't see it. Because he saw each

-- 353 of 676 --

290 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
person walking in a rainbow of changing color and light, he assumed
that others could also.
Even though you have temporarily lost the gift of seeing auras,
your aura is, nevertheless, of vital importance to your health, hap-
piness, and spiritual evolvement. Invisible though it may be to you at
present, it is there, and esoteric wisdom begins with your acknowledg-
ment and understanding of its very real existence. My personal Gurus
and Teachers have counseled me that one should repeat the positive
aloud at every opportunity, and never the negative, to prepare one's
self for eventually reclaiming this great gift. In other words, never say
aloud to anyone, "I can't see auras, not even the etheric halo." Instead,
repeat aloud as often as possible when you discuss such matters with
others (and even alone) ... "I can't see the etheric or the human aura
yet — but I know I will be able to soon" Your subconscious will pick
up the message eventually, and your Higher Self will answer it.
Until "soon" arrives, you can still do a number of things to ac-
knowledge your awareness of your aura — and to protect, "polish,"
and purify your auric egg. Everyone has noticed the odd behavior of
humans when they're on an elevator, especially a crowded elevator.
Without exception, each person feels strangely introverted and un-
comfortable, most of them either staring at their feet or gazingjntently
at the changing floor numbers above their heads, lighting up with
each stop, their features as frozen as if they were watching the count-
down for the final nuclear* blast-off — until they reach their floor
destinations, then they quickly exit, often with a sigh of relief.
The overlapping and mixing of the auric eggs of the passengers
on a crowded elevator is what creates the tension and uneasiness in
everyone (except for a few fast-talking Geminis, accustomed to blend-
ing with the other half of themselves). When someone else's auric egg
overlaps or brushes with your own, you feel it instantly, sometimes
sharply, sometimes faintly — but the contact will always be felt. This
is why, when someone tiptoes up behind you to surprise you, or sim-

-- 354 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN RAINBOWS * 291
ply passes by closely behind you, you sense that person's presence
before you hear or see it. A different auric egg has penetrated the
substance of your very personal sheath. Then there are those people
who insist on leaning very close when they talk with you, causing you
to feel uncomfortable. What causes the uneasiness is that the person
has interpenetrated your auric egg with his or her own. Lovers, of
course, or parents and children, find this overlapping most pleasur-
able, but to others it can cause extreme discomfort. When it happens
to me I always say, as courteously as possible, with a smile, "You're
into my auric egg — do you mind if I move back a bit ?" This re-
sponse to unexpected or unsolicited closeness is the unguessed reason
behind the familiar phrase of the seventies and eighties — U
I need my
space" ... or "Give me my space."
The texture of your personal rainbow, your auric egg, is elec-
tromagnetic. Consequently, as you mix with other people when
you're shopping, working or just walking, your aura will magnetically
pick up tiny bits and pieces of the auric texture of others — along with
becoming saturated with the magnetic pieces of your own negative
emotions throughout the day. ^pur aura then needs cleansing.
When you take a bath or a shower (preferably a shower) all those
magnetic bits you picked from others and from your own negative
thoughts and emotions wash right down the drain. This is the effect
of the element of water on the auric texture. As the washing off pro-
cess occurs, the aura slowly draws back within the body, so that if you
were seen by a mystic, the latter could not see a trace of your aura or
etheric. Did you ever notice that, after you take a bath or shower, and
step out of the tub, for about thirty to sixty seconds you feel noticeably
weak ? It's because your aura has drawn within. Then, after you dry
yourself, the sense of slight weakness is replaced by a surge of energy
and well-being. This is because the aura has gradually projected itself
out again, glowing in its normal state, and cleansed of the clusters of
all those negative bits and pieces of electromagnetic energy, which
were washed away by the water.

-- 355 of 676 --

292 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
This is the source of the spiritual counsel "Cleanliness is next to
Godliness." It's impossible to retain, for some time following a bath or
a shower, negative feelings of any real depth — those which bom-
barded you before you cleansed your aura. When you're feeling ex-
hausted, angry, fearful, grief-stricken, worried — take a bath or a
shower. Wash off your aura — cleanse your aura. You'll find it im-
possible to feel those negative emotions to any substantial degree af-
terward. You'll be calmer, more peaceful, and better able to deal with
the problems that created your tension or stress ... for several hours
at least, until the aura becomes saturated again with negative "bits"
from other people and from your own thought processes and emo-
tions. Although they don't comprehend how or why it works, and
they certainly have no thought of the human aura, doctors in mental
institutions often order severely emotionally disturbed patients to sub-
mit to sitting in a tub of running, warm water for periods of time. The
technique of hosing angry crowds with water is a deplorable thing for
police to do, but the water does have the effect of quieting down the
violence and restoring a temporary stability. It's an ugly practice, but
once again, it was initiated because the effect of water on the human
aura had been observed, even by thjse who never heard of the term
"aura," let alone ever observed one.
The shades of the spectrum rainbow and the Music of the
Spheres — color and sound — exert a still unrealized but great power
over every area of your life, from physical, mental, and emotional
health to your personal relationships. The Forgotten Rainbows and
the Forgotten Melodies. (The power of sound will be discussed in a
later chapter.)
Consider the color red — ruby red or crimson red. It has an
amazing influence over the sleeping awareness, and creates specific
vibrations in the mind, certain natural responses. Unfortunately,
those in charge of matters like traffic control lacked any knowledge of
metaphysics when they decided to use the color red to mean Stop —
and the color green to mean Go. To the subconscious, red means

-- 356 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN RAINBOWS * 293
GO ! GO ! CHARGE ! The color green, conversely, speaks to the
subconscious with flash messages like: Be cool. STOP. Wait. Rest.
The unenlightened ones who set up the Stop and Go traffic sig-
nals chose the color red for Stop because they believed it would be
interpreted by the drivers as "Danger !" And so it is — to the conscious
mind. But to the subconscious, remember, the message is also, as I just
pointed out: GO ! GO ! CHARGE !
I've conducted a fair amount of research on the subject, and I've
learned that, for many years after the first Red and Green traffic lights
were installed, the offenses of "running a Red Light" were extremely
high, and began to lower only very slowly, as drivers gradually re-
programmed their basic, built-in subliminal responses to the colors
red and green. Relative to all the "running a Red Light" offenses, most
of those who do it usually seem confused, and are unable to explain
< why they did it.
During busy traffic hours in large cities, there are frequent traffic
tie-ups associated with the false message of the gteen, so-called GO
Light. The cars blast their homs in repeated, deafening complaint to
the car in the front of the line, while the driver frequently just sits
there, in a trancelike state, staring at the Green Light that may be
saying "GO" to his conscious mind, but contradicts the message with
the response from the subconscious of "Cool it. Stop and rest awhile."
A friendly word of advice: Don't run Red Lights — ever. How-
ever, if you're ever motioned to pull over by an officer of the law who
accuses you of running a Red Light, confess immediately and con-
tritely that you did run the light (if you did) — or tell him courteously
and add earnestly that you don't believe you're guilty (if you didn't run
the light). It wouldn't be wise to explain to him that you can't be held
fully responsible for following your subconscious urgings just because
the people who created traffic lights were metaphysically color blind,
unless you want a swift ticket and perhaps also a sanity hearing or

-- 357 of 676 --

294 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
sobriety test (unless the officer is a Pisces). You may be personally
enlightened, but that doesn't mean the whole world is equally as il-
luminated, in particular the Police Department. Cripple Creek's for-
mer Police Chief Dale Simpson (see Chapter 1) is one of the few men
in blue who would accept such an explanation, and it's not likely
you'll be running any Red Lights there. Cripple Creek doesn't even
have any Red Lights. Everything there is Green . . . and laid back.
Let's return for a moment to the Forgotten Rainbow of your aura
— auric sheath or auric egg — with proof that humans at one time,
long ago, were fully capable of seeing the aura, as did Edgar Cayce and
some others later, and were also capable of decoding its color keys.
For example, a certain shade of lime green in the aura indicates jeal-
ous, possessive feelings — dark rust red signifies anger — a particular
shade of mustard yellow represents fear — dark or indigo blue means
depression — purple indicates sexual arousal — black reveals deep
melancholy andfotterness, a desire for revenge — and so on.
Our Anglo-Saxon language has inherited this wisdom (more
about the English language in a later chapter on Lexigrams) and
passed it down to people today who haven't the slightest notion of
why they employ descriptive phrases such as: "He's pea green with
envy" — "She has a red hot temper" — "He's a yellow coward" — "She
has the blues" — "He's in a black mood" — "He felt a purple pas-
sion." People never ask themselves why they make such observa-
tions. Does a person's face actually turn the color green when he or
she is envious or jealous . . . actually turn brick red when angry —
turn yellow when afraid — blue when depressed — or black when
melancholy and revengeful ? Of course not. When people use such
phrases to describe someone's mood or temporary state of mind they
are either seeing those colors in the person's aura with unguessed,
Third Eye vision — or they're responding to the ancient knowledge
and wisdom still inherent in what is called "the mass, collective sub-
conscious," containing the matching of certain colors to certain emo-
tions, as revealed in the forgotten rainbow of the auric sheath or egg.

-- 358 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN RAINBOWS * 295
Color can be used with startling results in every facet of your
life. Its power is only recently beginning to be recognized by the
medical world, psychiatric institutions, the fashion world, marketing
people, and large corporations.
A MAGICAL SECRET
One of the major current concerns in America, indeed, all over
the world, is weight loss and weight gain. For reasons I'll soon ex-
plain, all diets are impotent in achieving permanent weight loss or
weight gain, and some are harmful to the general health, as well as
frustrating and difficult to follow. Lasting and successful weight gain
or weight loss can only be achieved through color, not calories.
It seems as if the world is made up of only two kinds of people:
the plumpies who want to lose weight and the skinnies who want to
gain weight — plus "10" Bo Derek and Christopher Reeve (Superman)
— and even they once belonged to either the former or the latter
group.
The most popular topic for books, magazine and newspaper arti-
cles, and television these days is diet. Diet, diet, diet — exercise,
exercise, exercise. Diet and exercise books and video tapes are sweep-
ing the world marketplace, with the disappointing result that we still
have generally the same number of plumpies and skinnies as ever.
Those who temporarily lose weight gain it back swiftly — and those
who temporarily gain weight lose it again just as quickly.
We've been offered high-protein diets, low-protein diets, and no-
protein diets — high-carbohydrate diets, low-carbohydrate diets, and
no-carbohydrate diets. There are the bizarre diets, such as the avo-
cado diet, the rice diet, the banana diet, the raw meat diet — and the
complicated menu diets one can only observe properly by hiring a
full-time chef or dietician to meticulously plan the intricate slices and

-- 359 of 676 --

296 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
spoonfuls of this or that for each meal each day of the week. We have
diet candies, liquid diets — diets approved by prominent physicians,
health food faddists, and traveling Yogis. None of them work Some
are successful for brief periods, then everything goes back to Square
One, and it all has to start over again. Both the plumpies and the
skinnies are also promised weight loss and weight gain (muscles for
the machos) through jogging, aerobics, dancing, or strenuous work-
outs on torturous machines.
Some people swear by the newest diet craze, and some people
swear at it. Regarding the quantity of food intake, some people eat like
the proverbial horse, and remain as skinny as a rail. Others eat like
elephants and look like them. Some people count their calories as if
they were counting the money in their bank balances, and others ig-
nore them, stuffing themselves with all kinds of goodies. The vege-
tarian is positive that meat causes you to gain weight or lose weight (as
the case may be) — and the carnivorous beef and steak eaters sneer at
the "rabbit food" and alfalfa sprouts munched by the former.
Millions of people starve themselves with periodic fasting to lose
weight, then, in a matter of weeks, all the fat returns. Fasting is mar-
velous as a cleansing of body, mind and spirit once a month for three
days, but it has absolutely nothing to do with permanent weight loss.
Other millions trying to gain weight devour foods rich in calories, and
don't give a tinker's dam about cholesterol, but find they're still wear-
ing size 13 collars in shirts sold only in the boy's department (if men)
or Size 1 dresses in pre-teens (if women) — and are still flat-chested
(both sexes).
Then enter the physicians. (Genuflect, please.) One doctor tells
you that the problem is your thyroid, your liver, or your pituitary
gland. Another doctor tells you that you need Vitamins. A different
doctor says Vitamins are dangerous, and taking too many may be the
real cause of your weight problem. The health food fanatics preach
that you need wheat, bran, mega-doses of Vitamins, and no dairy
foods, whether -you're trying to lose or gain — either one. A few

-- 360 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN RAINBOWS * ,
297
l
"psychic mediums" are always hiding around the corner, to tell you it's
your astral body which is afflicted, and you need to repeat your man-
tras more often.
The entire diet scene is a snake pit of coiling contradictions, a
three-ring circus of confusion and misplaced activity — and utterly
exhausting to the mind and the spirit, let alone to the poor, battered,
punched, massaged, jogged, stretched, aching, starved, or stuffed
body. It's all so unnecessarily complicated.
Are you one of the plumpies, overweight, longing to be slim and
trim ? Are you one of the skinnies, frail, emaciated, longing to be
muscular and sturdy (if you're a man) or rounded and curvaceous (if
you're a woman) ? Or are you completely contented with your perfect
body ? If your answer is "yes" to the last question, skip this section,
but read the rest of the color chapter. If your answer is "yes" to either
of the first two questions, keep reading. You're about to receive a
magic wand from the days of ancient alchemy, one of the codes of
universal wisdom among the many star signs you never dreamed
existed.
A page or so back, I stated that successful and lasting weight gain
or weight loss can only be attained through color, not calories. A
calorie is simply a unit to measure heat, and is not what causes weight
gain or loss. One fine day the New Age thinkers in the medical pro-
fession will recognize and confess this. , However, and this is most im-
portant, you can add weight or lose weight temporarily by adding or
cutting down on calorie intake because your brain has been constantly
programmed with the erroneous information that calories are the key to
gaining or losing pounds. The programmed brain is an immensely
powerful Master of Illusion. Nevertheless, false is false, true is true,
and the truth is that calories haw nothing to do with weight.
My Hatha Yoga-Zen Buddhist (see the Preface to this book)
told me during our New Year's Day esoteric talk that he had once
walked far into the desert to die. (I'm not sure if this was a true story,

-- 361 of 676 --

298 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
•
or just his Guru method of seeding metaphysical concepts into my
mind.)
He said that he remained there in the desert for "about four weeks,"
taking with him three large canteens of water to sip now and then —
to "keep him lucid till the end." Most of the fantasies and thoughts
and images passing through his mind were of deep green woods and
forests and clear, blue-green streams of water. (Note the natural visu-
alization of the colors blue and green.) During his attempted desert
"suicide" via starvation, he made friends with a small, curious desert
rat, who sat there, he said, and communicated with him silently. At
first, he lost weight rapidly, and into the third week he was so thin
that his bones seemed about to penetrate through his skin. Then,*
quite unexpectedly, and nearly as rapidly as he had lost weight, he
began to gain weight. At the end of the following week, still without a
bite of food, only sipping water, his normal weight had nearly
returned.
At the close of his story (whether true — or make-believe for the
purpose oj teaching), the turbaned one remarked casually, "In this man-
ner, many years ago, did I first begin to comprehend that calories have
nothing to do with weight loss and weight gain in the final analysis,
depending, of course, upon one's control of one's own falsely pro-
grammed brain." He did not add the color secret to his esoteric in-,
struction, evidently knowing that I was to be illuminated to that
portion of it soon enough, during the mountain retreat he had pre-
dicted, from a teacher who would appear without my seeking him.
Well discuss the calorie illusion later, but first let's consider the
relationship of color to weight. Both overweight and underweight
people suffer from the same disease (dis-ease): an imbalance of color
in the human aura. They have succumbed to LOCH (pronounced
"lock"): Lack of Color Harmony. How does color effect the gaining
or losing of weight ?
Food (and never mind the calorie count) is nothing more than
Light and Color. The growing plant (fruit or vegetable) absorbs light

-- 362 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN RAINBOWS * 299
from the Sun through the process of photosynthesis, then transmutes
the light into particular colors. When you take the food into your
body and digest it the material breaks down and changes back into
light and color. Light and color form the connecting link between
idea and form, consciousness and the Supraconscious (your Higher
Self), just as there is a direct relationship in the growing plant between
light and the emergence of color.
The LOCH condition of underweight in the skinnies, who try
and try, yet can't seem to retain their ideal weight, no matter how many
cabries they consume, is the result of an auric color imbalance, due to a
lack of the blue-green ray. To restore the color balance of their auras,
these people must take into their bodies, for a patterned period of time
— in specific ways — the blue-green color ray. Yin.
Likewise with the LOCH condition of being overweight in the
plumpies, who try and try, yet can't seem to keep the weight off, no
matter how few calories they consume. It's the result of an auric color
imbalance, due to a lack of the red-gold color ray in their auras. To
restore the color balance of their auras, these people must take into
their bodies, for a patterned period of time — in specific ways — the
red-gold color ray. Yang.
There is a three-step formula for taking into the body afflicted
with LOCH the needed blue-green ray (to gain weight) or the red-gold
ray (to lose weight). Following the procedures faithfully will allow
you to tune in, vibrate to, and absorb the color lacking in your aura in
sufficient amounts.
First, the color formula for the plumpies, who want to lose
weight. Then the color formula for the skinnies, who want to gain
weight.
If you strictly observe the following instructions, not only will
you lose weight safely and surprisingly swiftly, you'll remain at the
ideal weight for your individual bone structure and height for a very
long time, often permanently — until and unless your aura becomes

-- 363 of 676 --

300 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
imbalanced again by absorbing too much Yin, and not enough Yang
— or unless and until you abuse the eating process, and thus allow
your programmed brain to cause you to once again falsely believe that
calories can put on pounds. Then, of course, you must cure your
LOCH the same way. However, this rarely happens once you have
balanced your personal auric rainbow. I can promise that you'll be
astounded at how swiftly and efficiently this "color diet" (a phrase
containing the letters of another phrase: "let color do it") will melt
away your excess weight. It's so amazingly successful, you'll become
nearly fanatic about it, and wonder why you ever tortured yourself
with fasting and all those ineffective, sometimes dangerous "diet fads"
(a phrase containing the letters of the words "fat" and "die fast").
THE MAGICAL, FORGOTTEN RAINBOW
FOR OVERWEIGHT PLUMPIES
You'll need some equipment, but it's well worth the little time
and trouble it takes to obtain it. You will need: (a) a metal lamp, the
kind used by typists, preferably either brass or metal painted white or
red — with a rubber goose neck that can be twisted up or down or
sideways — and a firm base, a least two and a half inches in circum-
ference (so it won't topple over on the bed) and (b) a red bulb, not
clear, but opaque, like the bulbs used for EXITS in theatres-. It should
be 100 watts, but in any case not less than 75 watts. Most light stores
carry these bulbs, or can order them for you.

-- 364 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN RAINBOWS * 301
You'll also need: (a) a small cassette player, such as a Walkman,
with earphones, unless you have stereo speakers in your bedroom,
which will serve as well and (b) one or two or three tape cassettes of
music with pronounced drum beats — red Mars, music (more about
this later). The best and most effective is a tape of John Philip Sousa
marches — or tapes of loud rock music with heavy rhythm and drum
beats, etc. A tape of marching bands in a parade you recorded your-
self will serve as well.
The final equipment you'll need is: four 8- to 10-ounce glasses,
ruby red (not orange-red) glass. Because ruby red glass is not sold
everywhere, they may have to be ordered from a major department
store or glassware store. Red plastic glasses are just as effective if
they're the right size and the color is ruby red or crimson red, and not
orange-red. You'll also need an egg timer that can be set to ring.
The three steps to your Forgotten Rainbow miracle.
These three steps must be followed without any interruption in
the daily routine, so that a patterned response to the color treatment is
established. In the case of the red-gold-yellow treatment to lose
weight, the exposure to the needed color rays must be followed for at
least forty-five days, fifty-four days if necessary — but need not be
followed for longer than sixty-three days. Remember that to cure
your LOCH and restore color balance to your aura, you should take
your color-music baths at the same time each day, which will allow
your body to establish the necessary conditioned response. The times
of greatest power for thus recharging the colors of the aura with the
energizing rays that are lacking are sunrise, high noon, and sunset —
or as close to these times as possible. Choose which time is easier to
fit into your daily schedule, and stay with it each day.
STEP 1.
Go into your bedroom and darken it by pulling the shades and
drawing the drapes. Remove all your clothing and lie down on the

-- 365 of 676 --

302 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
bed, with your small tape cassette player. (Unless you have stei
speakers in the room, which will serve as well.) Make sure there is
clock with a large face on the night table beside the bed, so the time ma$
be easily seen, with your egg timer next to it. Insert the tape into the
cassette player and position the earphones.
Place your small metal desk lamp containing the red bulb bAj
tween your knees and, holding it firmly between your knees (or
thighs), so it won't topple over, use the gooseneck to aim the shade
with the red bulb directly toward your solar plexus (between the
breastbone and the navel), about two feet from your skin.
Set the timer for fifteen minutes, then turn on the cassette player;,
and the lamp. Relax your nude body, and erase all negative thoughts
from your mind. Allow the red-Mars music to enter your "inner earM
through the earphones as loudly as you find to be comfortable, while
your solar plexus is being bathed in red light. Keeping your eyes
closed is helpful, but not absolutely necessary.
When the fifteen-minute period ends, signaled by the timer, .and j
seen on the clock face, lay the small metal lamp on its side at the
bottom of the bed, so that the red light from the bulb is aimed one to
one and a half feet away from the soles of your feet (while still lying on j
°
your back). Set your timer for an additional fifteen minutes, and liejP
relaxed, erasing all negative thoughts from the screen of your mind, f
and continuing to listen to the red-Mars music through the earphones, f
as the red color bath penetrates the soles of your feet (leading to aDH
°
other parts of your body).
When the second fifteen-minute period of your color bath has J
d
ended, as signaled by the timer and seen on the clock face (double] fc
insurance for the correct timing), turn off the red lamp and turn ofll Q
the tape.
That's the end of Step 1, and it has taken only thirty minutes in J
^
all, only a half hour out of your busy day. Remember, once a day —jk
at whichever "power time" you've chosen, sunrise, high noon or sun- »

-- 366 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN RAINBOWS * 303
set (or as near these times as possible, just so it's the same time every-
day), you must take your color bath — for no less than forty-five days,
fifty-four days if necessary, and no more than sixty-three days.
A quick summary of Step 1: fifteen minutes of the red ray ener-
gizing your solar plexus — fifteen minutes of the red color bath to the
soles of your feet — listening via earphones (or room stereo) to the
challenging, exciting red-Mars music during the entire half hour
period.
A word of caution: After a few days of the red color bath treat-
ment, if you should feel feverish or exhausted, switch to an orange
bulb for two or three days, then return to the red bulb. You can
expect elimination from both bowels and kidneys to increase as the
weight lowers rapidly over a period of days, but if your body responds
to this energizing with diarrhea for more than one day, again, switch
to an orange bulb, continue the treatment of Step 1 for two or three
days, then switch back to the red bulb.
The plumpies who have hypertension or tachycardia (rapid heart
beat) should take the entire Step 1 treatment at all times with an
[
orange bulb, instead of a red bulb. The effect will be slightly slower
, than the red color bath, but perfectly safe. Red will raise the blood
pressure temporarily, which is not in the least harmful to. the average
person, but is not recommended for those with hypertension or high
blood pressure. In the latter cases, Step 1 is perfectly safe with an
orange bulb (although slightly slower) — because the color orange will
stimulate the body, allow the aura to absorb the red-gold ray and raise
the pulse rate without raising the blood pressure. If you do not suffer
from high blood pressure, hypertension or tachycardia, the red bulb
color bath is absolutely safe for the entire period.
These interstellar light charges irradiate- the body's batteries and
the aura, and since the body must gradually adapt to these new color
patterns in the. aura, the regularity and consistency of these daily
"cosmic charges" are vital to the success of your color diet. It's not

-- 367 of 676 --

304 • LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
something -you can start, then stop, then start again — or the entire
effect will be lost, and there will be no magic. Don't begin it unti
you're fully committed to complete the forty-five-, fifty-four-, or sixty-
three-day cycle, at the' same time each day . . . plus the additional
steps.
STEP 2.
Still the weight lass color diet. Fill two of your four 8- to 10-
ounce red glasses with bottled water. Then place them outside, where
the Sun's rays fall on them for at least three hours, preferably all day!
This will solarize the water with the red-gold ray. It's already been 1
1
proven scientifically that when sunlight reaches water through a col-
ored glass container the chemical content of the water is measurably
altered, each time in a different way, depending on the color through
which the light of the Sun reached the water. It's called solarizing.
You can protect the water from insects and other particles by sealing
the top with Saran Wrap, which won't affect the solarization process.
When your two ruby red glasses of water have been solarized J
place them somewhere to reach room temperature (the Yang tem-J;
perature) and set the other two outside to be solarized. In this way, -I
j
you can drink two delicious glasses of red solarized water a day —
J
morning and evening. While two are reaching the Yang room tem-h
perature, the other two are being solarized. You'll notice a refreshing 5
difference in the taste of your red solarized water. Many people say it J $
tastes like fresh spring water or well water. (Do not refrigerate it.)
STEP 3. |l
You've now taken the red-gold ray into your body, and eventually J
into your aura through the red lamp color bath — the red-Mars heavy J
f
drum beat, pounding, parade march music — and the red solarized j
(
water. During this same forty-five-, fifty-four-, or sixty- three-day J
f
treatment of the color missing from your auric rainbow, which has! *
caused your condition of LOCH, you must increase your absorption of
the red-gold ray through the food you eat. It's quite simple. You eat

-- 368 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN RAINBOWS * 305
only those foods which are colored red, gold, yellow, orange — or
white. Why add white ? Because white "throws off," and does not
"hold in or retain." There are plenty of foods in this color spectrum to
choose from. You certainly won't suffer any hunger pangs.
You can eat as little or as much of these foods as you please,
without gaining weight, paying no attention whatsoever to either the
quantity of the food you eat — or the calorie content. When you've
completed the minimum forty-five-, maximum sixty-three-day color
cycle, you may then eat any of the foods on the red-gold list — plus
any of the foods on the blue-green list (given following this red-gold
list). In fact, you may eat whatever you want at the end of the cycle.
Here is a partial list of the foods in the red-gold spectrum you can
eat sparingly or stuff yourself with, depending on your mood or your
perference. You may add any other foods you wish to the list, as long
as they are colored red, gold, yellow, orange, or white. Eat no foods
colored green, blue, blue-green, yellow-green, or brown.
The food list for plumpies
Beets Red wine — red Grapefruit
Red cabbage grapes Lemons —
Strawberries Red grape juice lemonade
Tomatoes Cranberries Oranges
Red onions Milk — especially Yellow peppers —
Mustard and cream red peppers
ketchup Pomegranates Mangoes
Nectarines Red raspberries Rutabagas — yams
Cherries Popcorn Rhubarb
Radishes Papayas Pumpkin
Spaghetti Apricots Mayonnaise
Chili Bananas Cornmeal muffins
Butter — (yes, Corn All cheeses,
butter) Carrots including cottage
cheese

-- 369 of 676 --

306 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
The food list for plumpies continued
Eggs in any form
Honey
Red caviar
Any kind of rice
(except brown -
rice)
Watermelon
Yellow melons —
pineapple
Chicken — yellow
noodles and
chicken gravy
Red or white ice
cream if made
with honey
Honey-vanilla ice
cream
All cereals derived
from golden
wheat or oats
Peaches
All potatoes —
except french fries}
(but don't eat thej]
skins of brown-
skinned potatoes)
:„™
d
:
Let me explain about the skins of foods in relation to what m
inside. Watermelon, of course has a green skin, but is red insidql
Since no one ever eats the skin of a watermelon, the plumpies may
safely eat the red inside of a watermelon. They may also eat the real
skins of red-skinned potatoes, plus the inside of such potatoes -
the inside of brown-skinned potatoes, but not the brown skins; brov
being a part of the blue-green spectrum, corresponding with Natuii|j
and all growing green plants, which are blended with brown (such \
trees and the like). Plumpies may safely eat any red- or yellow -skinn
fruits and veggies, unless the insides of them are part of the blue-gree\
spectrum. Avocados art out for the plumpies, being brown on the outj
side, and a combination of green and yellow-green inside. They 1
long, as you'll see, on the list for skinnies. Plumpies may eat golden
chicken gravy — but no brown gravy. They may eat chicken, but no. I
fish. You'll have to wait until your LOCH is cured before returning tJ»
your favorite Sushi bar or Japanese restaurant. (Yes, even fish like
shrimp belong on the skinnies' list, never mind the orange stripes on
the outside.)

-- 370 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN RAINBOWS * 307
Study the list, use your imagination to add other foods, and you'll
see that the plumpie color diet won't make you "feel starved." Forget
those "reducing salads" and other green things you've always thought
would cause you to lose weight. They'll have just the opposite effect,
causing you to add weight to your already overweight LOCH. And
here are some other color therapy rules.
Products made with white sugar or white flour are no-nos for
both the plumpies and the skinnies while they're taking the color treat-
ment. White sugar and white flour destroy the color balance of your
body and your aura, even though white sugar does not add weight, as
you've been falsely led to believe — or as your brain has been falsely
programmed. Any sweets made with yellow gold honey are in the
proper color spectrum for losing weight — and brown sugar or raw
sugar products are in the proper color spectrum for gaining weight.
All sugar substitutes are no-nos for both plumpies and skinnies — and
even when you've become perfectly balanced, and your LOCH is
cured, white sugar, white flour products, and sugar substitutes are
best not eaten, purely for health reasons.
You may think that red meat should belong on the plumpie food
list in the color treatment, simply because of the red color (from the
poor animal's blood, of course). However, all red meats are taboo for
the color treatments of both plumpies and skinnies — not because the
color as right or wrong, but because the chemical response of your
shocked body to this (rotted) cured flesh of mammals (our animal
brothers and sisters) upsets the entire healing process of any kind of
illness or disease, including LOCH — in addition to its being detri-
mental to your general health. Even if you have no desire to become a
vegetarian, don't expect the color treatment to work if you eat red
meat during the color cycle time period.
The booster suggestions for the magical color weight loss program
are:

-- 371 of 676 --

308 • LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
1. The wearing of red, yellow, gold, orange, or white clothing as
often as possible — and the wearing of green, blue, blue-green,
greenish-yellow, turquoise, brown, or black clothing as seldom as
possible.
2. The mental visualization of the red color bath twice a day. Make
sure these two periods are at the same time each day. While
standing, breathe deeply and correctly for one minute. Then vi-
sualize sparkling ruby red or crimson red light streaming up from
the ground below (although you should do this indoors) and
mounting in intensity, as the red waves of color envelop your
body externally until they reach the top of your head — for one
full minute. End the visualization booster by imaging — for one
full minute — the same vibrant, red energy beaming downward
from the top of your head, and penetrating every cell and organ
within your body, as you breathe deeply and correctly for one full
minute. The color image visualization takes only two minutes,
twice a day, four minutes in all.
3. When outdoors, summer or winter, wear as often as possible red-,
rose-, orange-, yellow-, or gold-tinted sunglasses. The color
spectrum entering your body through the retina of the eye is a
powerful booster.
After a week or so of booster suggestion Number 2, twice a day at
a convenient time, at home or the office, you'll be surprised how
quickly you will master visualization, until it will seem that you truly
see the red rays with physical vision, in the same way that you will
someday be able to see auras.
The three steps outlined here plus the boosters which comprise
the ancient alchemy color treatment for the LOCH of the plumpies so
they may safely, surely, and permanently lose weight are simple and
painless. They contain nothing harmful to your health. Let's brief the
formula:
1. The daily half hour color baths — and Yang music treatments.

-- 372 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN RAINBOWS iV 309
2. Two glasses of red solarized water per day.
3. Eating only the foods in the red-gold-yellow-orange-white spec-
trum. The three boosters of clothing, color visualization, and
sunglasses.
You'll be amazed at how swiftly this color secret causes you to
shed pounds, exactly where you need them to melt away, not in the
wrong places. It's mysterious and exciting to see it work. The first
time you lie down on your bed with your red lamp and marching
music, you'll feel somewhat foolish. But here's a hint.
Before you start, try on a pair of jeans you have to pin together at
the waist with a safety pin, because they're so small and tight on your
overweight body (whether you're overweight by ten pounds or sixty
pounds or more). Shower immediately following your color-music
bath. (This is assuming you've had your two glasses of red solarized
water the day before.) After you shower, dry yourself, then try on the
jeans again.
After the first, second, or third treatment (often after the very first
one) you'll be surprised to discover that, although the jeans may still
be too snug for comfort, you can at least fasten them without the safety
pin. A week or so later (or sooner) you can fasten them comfortably
— and wear them. A couple of weeks later you'll treat your red bulb
and red glasses as if they were chips from the Hope Diamond, with a
grateful reverence, as the pounds melt away while you're neither starv-
ing yourself nor fasting, and eating as much of the red-gold foods as
you desire when you're hungry. Yes . . . definitely magic !
Why the music ? Because color and sound are equally important
to human well-being -r and every sound or type of music vibrates to a
particular color: Therefore, taking into your body, which will eventu-
ally and gradually manifest in the personal rainbow of your aura, the
needed and temporarily missing spectrum hues, through both color
itself and the music or sound vibration of that color, speeds up the
process. Sound and color are inseparable.

-- 373 of 676 --

310 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
THE MAGICAL, FORGOTTEN RAINBOW TREATMENT
FOR UNDERWEIGHT SKINNIES
This formula will be easy — easy for the author at least ! The
color treatment for healing the underweight LOCH is precisely, step-
by-step, the same as the treatment for the LOCH of the overweight
plumpies, with the following exceptions. Read the three Steps I've
just described for the overweight LOCH condition, and change only
these aspects of the formula:
STEP 1.
Use a blue bulb, instead of a red bulb. Make sure that the blue
bulb is 75 or 100 watts, and is opaque, rather than clear. The lamp
you use for your color baths should be metal, painted brown, tan, or
any shade of blue or green.
Instead of the cassette tapes of the red-Mars marching bands —
loud, rock and roll or other drum beat music, substitute tape cassettes
of soothing ocean sounds or birdsong you can find on a series of tapes
called "Environments," carried in most record stores — or other soft,
blue-green Venus music, with strings, violins, and the like, sometimes
called "Music To Make Love By" ... or orchestral arrangements of
pieces like "Clair de Lune" or "Moonlight Sonata," etc.
STEP 2.
Instead of the ruby red glasses, you'll need four 8- to 10-ounce
cobalt blue or electric blue glasses (a bright and vibrant, but not dark
blue). Other than the color of the glass, the solarized water formula is
to be followed exactly as given for the plumpies — with this one
exception: In your case, you shouldn't drink the water at room tem-
perature, but should drink it ice cold. Refrigerate your blue solarized
water while the other two are solarizing.

-- 374 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN RAINBOWS * 311
STEP 3.
Regarding the three booster suggestions given in the overweight
color treatment, the skinnies must change the instructions to this:
Wear, as frequently as you can, clothing in any shade of blue, green,
turquoise, blue-green, greenish-yellow, brown, or black. Avoid as
much as possible wearing clothing in any shade of red, yellow, gold,
orange, or white. It's a strange contradiction that plump people like
to wear black, because they believe it makes them look thin. It does.
It make them look thin — but conversely, black "holds in" and retains,
causing weight gain in color therapy. The opposite is true of white —
the skinnies should never wear it while on the color therapy "diet" —
and the plumpies should wear it (never mind that they believe it makes
them look heavy), because it will help them lose weight.
The booster suggestion of the sunglasses changes for the skinnies,
too, naturally. They should wear sunglasses in any shade of blue,
green, smoke, or brown (with no rose or yellow tint).
As for the visualization booster, including the breathing and
color imaging, follow the same directions given for the plumpies,
changing the color visualized from red to forest green, cobalt blue,
electric blue, or sky blue. Also, while plumpies should perform the
visualization booster standing on the floor, those who desire to gain
weight should perform it standing barefoot on green grass, whenever
possible. The green color ray from the grass entering the soles of the
feet, along with the blue-green mental image of blue or green, gready
increases the intake of the blue-green spectrum.
As already stated, the plumpie color treatment must be followed
for either forty- five, fifty-four, or sixty- three days — no number of
days in between, because these numbers match the red-gold ray.
However, the color treatment for underweight skinnies, who wish to
gain, must be followed for a minimum of forty-two days, fifty-one days
if necessary — but no longer than sixty days. And no number of days
in. between, because these numbers vibrate to the blue-green ray.

-- 375 of 676 --

312 * LINDA GOODMANS STAR SIGNS
In both cases of LOCH, if you miss a day or two, you must begin
all over again, because you will have disrupted the necessary con-
tinuity of the conditioned response aspect of the color therapy. This
is why you shouldn't begin your color treatment until you're prepared
to fully commit to the schedule and strictly observe the three Steps of
the formula.
The last change for the skinnies that differs from the color re-
quirements for the plumpies is the food list. If you're in the group of
skinnies., and wish to gain weight, you must eat only those foods which
are colored blue, green, blue-green, greenish-yellow, or brown, and
eat them as frequently and in as much quantity as possible. Avoid all
foods colored red, orange, gold, yellow, or white. Here is a partial list
of foods which will allow the skinnies suffering from LOCH to balance
their auras by taking in the missing and needed blue-green-brown
color spectrum. You may add any other foods you especially like,
since this isn't a complete list, as long as they are colored blue, green,
or brown. Including chocolate (made with raw or brown sugar). No
honey. Remember that white sugar and white flour products will not
make you gain weight, as you've been erroneously taught, but they
will cause the color harmony you're seeking to go out of kilter.
The food list for shinnies
Blueberries
Blue or green grapes
Plums
Blackberries
Brown gravy —
brown rice
Green cabbage
Sashimi {not white
rice Sushi)
Coffee
Asparagus
Spinach
Broccoli
Kale
Green spinach
noodles or green
pasta
Powdered carob
chocolate for cold
(Yin) drinks —
mixed with water,
not milk.
Celery
parsley
Avocados
Parsnips -
Peas
Green beans
Lima beans
Limes
Kiwi fruit
Green honeydew
melons
Artichokes
Green-skinned
apples

-- 376 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN RAINBOWS * 313
The food list for shinnies continued
Cucumbers
Mustard greens
Lettuce
Pickles — olives
Fish of any kind —
except fried
All Japanese food,
except white
rice
Artichokes
Skins of brown-
skinned
potatoes, not
the insides
Green peppers
Green onions
Blue grape juice
Brussel sprouts
All blue-, green-, or
brown-skinned
fruits and
veggies
Margarine
Black caviar
Peanut butter
Brown rice
Pistachio nuts
All other nuts you
like
Any sweets made
with raw sugar,
brown sugar,
or syrups
So . . . there you'll sit in a restaurant, ordering avocado or spinach
salad on a bed of lettuce, while everyone wonders why in the world
you're "dieting," when you're so "thin," not realizing that your sparse
lunch is causing you to gain weight. Magic !
Why is butter nonfattening for the plumpies — and why are you
skinnies told you must eat margarine to gain weight ? Because butter
fluoresces yellow, and margarine fluoresces blue-green under fluores-
cent light. It should really create a lot of talk — the plumpies stuffing
themselves with baked potatoes, smothered in butter and sour cream
(but no chives) — while the skinnies are eating only the brown pota-
toes skins, and munching on all that "diet food," such as lettuce and
greens and pickles and olives.
Remember that the color diet won't work if you practice just one
phase of it, the solarized water — or the foods — or the color bath.
All three Steps must be part of the entire treatment. As for teas, now
that you've become a color expert, I'm sure you can assign all the
available teas to the red-gold ray or the blue-green ray, depending on
the color of the tea. But remember that the plumpies should drink
their teas (and other liquids) hot, because they lack the red-gold Yang

-- 377 of 676 --

r
314 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
ray — and the skinnies should drink their teas (and other liquids)
cold, because they lack the blue-green Yin ray.
Remember that the red-gold ray is Yang, and the blue-green ray is
Yin. Green is the spectrum color that balances the liver and the spleen
by activating the pituitary gland, stimulating its growth potential, and
sluggish action of the pituitary is the problem with many severely
underweight people. The red-gold ray stimulates the pituitary in the
opposite way.
Back to the illusion of calories, which are units to measure heat
and nothing more, regardless of the false programming of medical
science to date. Do you still believe it's the consumption of an excess
of calories that causes you to gain weight, the gobbling down of sweets
and so forth — and that cutting down drastically on calories, pasta,
milkshakes, and the like is a sure way to lose weight ?
Consider the huge animals on Earth, such as the elephant, the
rhino, and the hippo — also the enormous prehistoric dinosaurs.
These creatures need tons of weight to frame their huge body skel-
etons. But did you ever see an elephant eating apple pies and straw-
berry sundaes — or a hippo munching buttered toast ?
What do elephants and other large creatures (who need to weigh
tons in order to survive) eat ? They eat exclusively the blue-green-
brown color ray. So do cows and bulls. Ponder the pure and simple
logic of it. And don't leave out the great whales, who also weigh many
tons, and whose diets consist entirely of the blue-green color ray and
small fish (which are among the foods to eat for those who want to
gain weight). You can't argue with wise Mother Nature. You see, the
large animals were never programmed with the falsehood that the
intake of calories causes weight gain, so they go merrily along, munch-
ing blue-green and brown vegetation, nearly zero calories, and grow
heavier with each mouthful.
I'm reminded of our small friend, the bumblebee (who probably
remains small because he snacks all day on yellow pollen from lots of

-- 378 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN RAINBOWS * 315
red, gold, yellow, and orange flowers !). I'm reminded of him in the
context of programming. According to all the inflexible rules of aero-
dynamics and the laws of physics, regarding body weight in relation to
wing span, the bumblebee cannot fly. But no one ever told the
bumblebee this, so the little fellow flies around anyway, blissfully ig-
norant of the "fact" that he can't fly.
I wonder if the old truism "ignorance is bliss" could be used to
apply to the programming of the human brain with error. Does
breaking a mirror really bring seven years of bad luck ? When a black
cat crosses your path will you surely soon hear of a death ? If you
believe so, yes. Just as calories will make you fat, if you believe they
will. The true definition of superstition is: programming of the mind.
Is it not ? Think about it. A familiar computer term is GIGO (garbage
in — garbage out), meaning that the "facts" popping up on the com-
puter screen are only as reliable as the information that was pro-
grammed into it. Likewise with the human brain, of which the
electronic computer is but a pale imitation.
So shall we dump the GIGO calorie illusion into the trash bag of
medical falsehoods ? Yes, let's do ! When you've completed your
color treatment for whichever LOCH you may have you'll finally real-
ize the truth of the calorie myth, and hopefully won't succumb in the
future to the false programming you've been subjected to all of your
life, so that, after your aura is restored to perfect color harmony, you'll
eat anything you please, without subconsciously — and consciously
— expecting to gain weight . . . therefore, you won't !
One last tip for the plumpies. When your color treatment of the
red-gold ray has balanced your auric rainbow and your weight has
become ideal for your individual body structure, you may — weeks or
months later — suddenly go on a big binge of foods you formerly
falsely believed were fattening. If so, and assuming your falsely pro-
grammed brain hasn't quite yet realized the lie of calorie intake, you
may feel like a toad, about to explode, and your tummy will swell up
like a balloon. Programming. Nothing but programming. Yet the

-- 379 of 676 --

316 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
swelling looks and feels very real. Don't panic. Relax. You can
quickly erase the false programming and your body's visible and im-
mediate response to it. And you needn't return to your forty-five-,
fifty-four-, or sixty-three-day treatment, with its three Steps plus the
boosters to accomplish it.
All you need to do to balance the situation is to lie on your bed,
calmly watching television or reading, while taking in the red ray
through the soles of your feet (as detailed in Step 1) for a half hour or
so. The next morning you'll awaken, go into the bathroom, shower i
— then come out and view yourself sideways in the mirror. Abra-
cadabra ! Your slightly ballooning tummy of the night before will be
nice and flat again. Definitely magic ! And so quickly. A humongous
binge may take two or three nights of this booster, but never more
than that — and usually one will suffice. However, don't let this
partial red color bath cause you to continue your erroneous calone
G1GO. Your objective*, remember, is to be/ree of your brain's GIGO P
permanently. Also, don't consider this partial color bath a substitute
for the three Steps and boosters of the color treatment cure for LOCH,
since it's only effective after you've completely followed the forty-five-,
fifty-four-, or sixty-three-day schedule.
Note: It occurs to me, relative to the solarized water portion of
the color treatment, that you may wonder if you can solarize water in
your ruby red — or cobalt blue — glasses on a cloudy day. The
answer is yes, you can. The light from the Sun with the power to
solarize the water will be just as effective on a cloudy as on a sunny
day — and in a somewhat diminished sense, even in the rain. In the
instance of the latter, regarding the diminished solarization power,
drink three or four glasses of the red or blue solarized water the next
day, instead of two glasses.
By the way, in case you've been frightened by scary stories for
and against — not only calories — but also the dangers of cholesterol
and the necessity 'of protein — don't fret. Relax. Green yourself or
blue yourself. Metaphysicians and medical astrologers know that the

-- 380 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN RAINBOWS * 317
dangers of cholesterol are exaggerated, and the need for protein is the
same kind of false programming as the power of calories. (Elephants
don't eat "minimal daily requirements of protein," and they do quite
nicely, thank you. They also live a loooooooong time.) But even if
you still mistakenly believe these illusions, you can comfort yourself
with the knowledge that the eggs and cheeses are on the plumpie list
of foods and the apparent lack of much protein on the list can't hurt
you for only forty-five, fifty-four, or sixty-three days.
Another proof of the power of the red ray to lose weight, and of
the blue ray to gain weight: the Doppler effect, science has called it.
In the late 1800s, Dr. Johann Christian Doppler discovered an impor-
tant effect concerning light waves, which contain the entire rainbow
spectrum, plus infrared and ultraviolet. He observed that, as light
approaches a person or an object, the closer it gets, the more blue it
becomes — and the further away it extends, the more red it becomes.
Red is the color that casts out, and blue is the color that is absorbed and
retained.
When two people are investigating their psychic ties and tele-
pathic abilities, through, experiments with one another at a distance,
using esp or mental telepathy — sending and receiving messages —
the sender should send on the red ray — and the receiver should receive
on the blue ray.
One last reminder regarding the color treatment. Those of you
who do suffer from LOCH should read everything counseled for both
the plumpies and the skinnies, whichever group you belong to, be-
cause (a) you'll leam what not to do — and (b) you might miss a
pertinent fact relating to the entire condition of both kinds of LOCH.
Now that we've realized how everyone can successfully become a
"10" like Bo Derek and Superman Christopher Reeve, we can continue
with some other aspects of the relationship between your health, hap-
piness, and well- being — and color. Let's return to the discussion of
the medical profession today in the preceding chapter, "An Apple a
Day," but this time associated with color.

-- 381 of 676 --

318 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
****** '
First of all, its necessary to comprehend that you are a holy trin-
ity, composed of body, mind, and soul. Your Spirit (the Angel of your
Higher Self) watches over the three, but is not an integral part of the
Earthling You.
This Holy Trinity of You is forever inseparable, and if only al-
lopathic medicine would realize and comprehend that vital truth, we
would be nearly all the way home — to permanent good health.
However, allopathic medicine (unlike homeopathic and holistic medi-
cine and medical astrology) treats the three parts of the trinity of you
as if they were each individual, self-supporting facets of a human,
[ailing to understand that they cannot be separated.
Physicians treat the Body — psychiatrists treat the Mind — and
Religion treats the Soul — separately. Such erroneous thought and
practice makes the task of the Spirit (your Higher Self or Su-
praconscious) extremely difficult. The Holy Trinity of You should be
treated in a homeopathic sense. As I remarked in Chapter 3, al-
lopathic medicine treats the disease the patient has, while homeo-
pathic medicine treats the whole person who has the dis-ease in his or
her aura, reflecting the problems in the other two parts of the Holy
Trinity.
When only one of the three parts of the Trinity of Body, Mind,
and Soul falls ill or stops functioning properly the other two will
quickly follow. Remember, they are inseparable. Conversely, when
one of the three is correctly and properly healed, the other two will
likewise follow. The key words are "correctly and properly" —
through thought, color, and music.
You may already be aware that research some time ago developed
an instrument called the Aurotone, that makes sound and music visible
— and makes color audible. It reproduces sounds and musical notes
in color, transferring each 'color to a sound equivalent; each sound or

-- 382 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN RAINBOWS * 319
musical note to a color equivalent. But you may not be aware that
thought itself produces color . . . and responds to color. Thought is
color. Thoughts possess color.
Consequently, either color or music or thought may* be used to
successfully restore the balance of harmony in your body and your
aura. And when two are used, or all three, the healing power and
adjustment of the individual's auric harmony is intensified. You'd best
read this paragraph several times until you fully comprehend it.
A brief example of the Aurotone revelations: C major vibrates as
red — the note of E vibrates as yellow — the musical note G vibrates
as blue — and so on. Each musical note on the Scale also vibrates to a
particular planet and astrological sign.
Consequently, it's conceivable and entirely possible for a musi-
cian to compose and play your personal Nativity, or birth chart,
through its various natal planet positions and aspects, including both
the harmonious and discordant chords indicated by your Horoscope
(which is actually a symbolic picture of your past incarnations).
When you heard this music it would deeply stir your Spirit with both
recognition and inspiration. Although setting a Nativity to music is an
enormous musical challenge, it can be done, and it would be a won-
derful thing to possess your own personal and individual S-elf as mu-
sic, don't you think ? Composer Robert Ellis, of Seattle, Washington,
is currently working on this exciting project, and I'm sure you'll be
hearing about it soon.
Color and music (more about music in the following chapter,
"Forgotten Melodies") play a vital role in man's and woman's physical
evolution and spiritual evolvement, whether or not they're aware of
it. The seven notes of the musical scale and the seven visible colors of
the rainbow spectrum have a direct effect on what Hindu philosophy
calls the seven subtle bodies surrounding and interpenetrating the
flesh body — and the electromagnetic frequencies and radiations of
these seven subtle bodies are responsible for the color substance of

-- 383 of 676 --

320 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
your aura — auric egg — or auric sheath. The great metaphysician,
Goethe, taught that all the color frequencies of white light are raised or
lowered to meet the needs of the evolution of our planet Earth, as well
as all Earths in countless solar systems.
Currently, a kind of role switching is taking place. It seems that
many psychologists are attempting to become psychiatrists — and
many psychiatrists are trying to become psychologists. They're both
at least investigating the inner and outer human. They sincerely want
to release the stress and tension from their patients, but they're still
unaware of how to teach them to do it themselves. Nonetheless, we
owe the dedicated ones (not the sexual perverts who have been raping
their patients of late) a debt of gratitude for broadcasting the impor-
tant message that the emotions of men and women are more contrib-
utory to illness than the germs in their body — even though they
haven't yet realized that the former constitute the cause, and the latter
the effect. The mind materializes the germs, causing them to man-
ifest. The mind also causes germs in the body to be virulent or impo-
tent and harmless. It's all in the state of mind, another term for your
"physical" resistance to illness. Many doctors are exposed to the
germs of highly contagious diseases constantly, yet don't "catch" the
illness. When you're trying to help other people, your own body
resistance grows stronger.
Food intake is nothing but the breakdown of color vibrations.
Disease treated with initially impressive but temporary success with
drugs, chemotherapy, chemicals, and antibiotics in response to germ
attacks — must be treated, for permanent healing, by changing the
color-sound frequencies of the patients, which balances the color har-
mony of their auras. This is part of the New Age medicine, and when
it becomes understood, the nineteenth and twentieth centuries will be
looked back upon as "the dark ages of medicine."
In both benign and malignant tumors there is a color disharmony
present, creating severe stress and strain which causes cancer cells to
multiply. The correct application of color and sound (music) can re-

-- 384 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN RAINBOWS * 321
verse the progress of the dis-ease and return the cancer cells to nor-
mal. It's the nature of, the natural inclination of every cell in your
body to return to its normal structure and frequency rate when the
color imbalance has been corrected, and there are a number of ways to
accomplish this. Unfortunately, there's not enough space here to go
into the subject thoroughly. Color therapy, or Chromotherapy as it's
called, is an immense, detailed, and specific field of knowledge, re-
quiring a book of it's own — and a very thick one at that.
I don't presently have any plans to write such a book myself in
the future, but if I ever do, I can tell you this. Before attempting to
counsel the general public concerning such a delicate and complex
matter as color therapy or Chromotherapy for treating diseased organs,
which can be as dangerous to your health as it can be healing and
helpful, I would study the subject carefully for-several years; then
consult with those who have studied for several decades. Only after
such preparation would I counsel men and women about how to use
color to heal a serious disease in any part of the body by using colored
prisms, screens or bulbs, filters — or imaging color directed toward
various parts of the body and particular organs of the body.
To attempt to write or lecture about such an intricate and in-
nately medical matter can be a dangerous practice for a layman when
what is being taught is specific, but the medical profession isn't con-
cerned about it because they believe the entire subject is harmless and
amusing. It is not.
What do you think would happen if someone advised you to take
a particular chemical prescription for a certain ailment, and that medi-
cation was for a totally different disease ? If you followed such mis-
guided advice, as any good physician will affirm, you could become
seriously ill — even die.
What doctors — and the general public — fail to realize is that
color therapy has a much greater power (for good or ill) to heal or
harm the body than a physician's chemical prescriptions. Much

-- 385 of 676 --

322 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
greater. Therefore, you can imagine what the wrong color cou
regarding healing the physical organs of the body (or the mind, for
that matter) can do when taught by someone who has only brushed
the surface of the vast study of Chromotherapy, and believes that he or
she is ready to teach it to others. There are, alarmingly, several of
these men and women who, during the past couple of years — and
presently — are treating individuals — lecturing — or holding semi-
nars — without any but a fragmented and cursory or general knowk
edge of what they believe themselves capable of teaching. There are
dozens of books written on the subject, and many of them are in;
complete disagreement regarding which color can heal or harm which
organ of the body. There's no way of knowing which of these books
have been read by the amateurs, dazzled by their new discovery of
esoteric matters, who feel themselves qualified to instruct you about j
color healing and imaging.
Most of these unprepared and uneducated instructors mean well,
they don't intend to harm their audiences or students, but because of
well-intentioned ignorance, that's exactly what can happen.
I don't believe myself to be so qualified (and I may never be) at j
present, even though I've been partially instructed by Chro-
motherapists from Europe, who possess medical degrees, and who an
also practicing physicians. So think what someone who attends the \
wrong lecture or has chosen the wrong book to read can do to damage
those who listen to misguided color counsel in a group seminar. As
for the color diet in this chapter, I'm sure no doctor could complain of
the foods given for the plumpies and skinnies for the periods of time I
suggested. Both lists contain healthy foods. As for the precious "pro-
teins" and such the medical profession swears by, when you're back to j
your normal weight, you're free to believe or disbelieve in medical
faith for or against protein, carbohydrates, cholesterol, and the like.
Relative to everyone's growing sense of the importance of color,
hospitals have finally recognized the power of green to soothe and
calm, which is why surgeons now wear green masks, caps and gowns,

-- 386 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN RAINBOWS * 323
and most hospital walls are painted green. Mental institutions long
ago discovered that, with manic depressives, if they placed them in a
room where everything was green or blue during their manic or hyper
stage, they would almost immediately calm down — and when, in the
depressive stage of silent inactivity and despondency, the patients
were placed in a room where everything was colored and painted
bright red and yellow, they would almost immediately come out of
their near catatonic trances and become cheerful and active.
If you're going to an important business meeting or an important
social event, think about what image you want or need to project, and
what image you don't want to project. If you want to present an ag-
gressive image, wear red — and visualize red. If you choose to pre-
sent an intellectual image, wear blue (but not dark blue) — and
visualize blue. If you want to present optimism, wear yellow or
orange — and visualize these colors. If you need to present an image
.
of calm, the one who pours soothing oil on troubled waters, wear
green (but not lime green) — and visualize green. If you need to be
stable, serious, and disciplined, wear black and white. If you want to
be loved, and to project love, wear rose pink or light pink — and
visualize these shades of the rainbow.
I have a friend in New York, an artist-photographer, who once
had the idea of having his entire, large, one-room apartment done all
in grey. The walls and ceiling were painted grey, the drapes, carpet-
ing, furniture, pillows, and lamp shades were all grey — varying tones
of grey. He intended the solid grey room to form a background, he
said, for his visitors, guests, business associates, and friends. The peo-
ple, he said, would add the color — by the clothing they wore — like
brilliant, colored jewels in a soft grey setting. It was undeniably a
lovely, artistic concept, but when he was alone in his grey room he
became so depressed he couldn't create or work, and after a few
^months he called in a decorator to change the color scheme.
Speaking of jewels or gems, the Egyptians used these as a booster
for the color treatment of illness and disease. Even today, this practice

-- 387 of 676 --

324 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
continues in both Egypt and China, and has recently spread to Europe
and America, where the "average person" is becoming aware of and
fascinated by the various magics possible with the proper use of
gems. Gems are concentrated, pure and single colors, not mixed col-
ors, and are therefore, because of being unadulterated, quite potent
and powerful in their effect on your body. See the chapter titled "An
Apple a Day" and Chapter 5 for the jewels you should wear next to
your skin — not to cure illness (because this requires specific colors
for specific diseases)' — but to harmonize with your individual per-
sonality, and bring out the positive qualities you possess, bestowed by
the day of your birth and your Sun Sign together..
When a particular gem is rotated the color rays within are re-
leased. Egyptians and other Eastern people are aware that the planets
strongly influence human behavior, in a physical, emotional, and spir-
itual sense — and gems possess the same color ray as the planet to
which they vibrate. (Again, refer to Chapters 2 and 5.) Conse-
quently, gems worn against the skin exert the same influence as the
planets, except that it's milder, much less forceful. Nevertheless, the
effects can be noticed and felt.
Crystals and pure, unalloyed metals possess the highest propor-
tions of etheric substance of anything in inanimate Nature. Alloys do
not possess a cohesive wholeness, because they emanate two types of
vibrations. This is why the ancient alchemists, Egyptian healers, and
seers used only highly refractive crystals and pure, unalloyed metals in
their work. Their faith in these cannot be called mere superstition
because today's modern electrician has also found that batteries and
circuits require pure, unalloyed metals — and the crystal is used as a
detector in wireless telegraphy because it is sensitive to the vibrations
of the ether.
This is why crystal and pure gems have always been considered
the most magical of physical substances — because they are the most
measurably etheric. Now do you see why "seers" have, since ancient

-- 388 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN RAINBOWS * 325
times, used a ball of pure crystal as a focal point for meditation ? It's
clearly not quite so "wacky" as it's made to seem by esoteric sceptics.
Metaphysicians have long known of the communicative quality
of quartz crystal, yet only recently have others (who ridicule meta-
physics) discovered how to make use of the communicative qualities
of quartz crystal in watches and time keeping. They fail to realize that
they've only touched the surface of the magic of quartz. During the
time of Atlantis, more than 500 hours of spoken data could be re-
corded on a piece of quartz crystal not much larger than your thumb-
nail. Those who find this hard to believe should ask themselves (time
being relative) if King Henry VIII of England might not have re-
sponded the same way to the information that so many hours of spo-
ken data —- or music — could be recorded (and played back) on a
thin slice of tape that resembled a brown ribbon. The material of the
tape itself would have been quite a shock to Henry, let alone hearing
the "magic tricks" it could do: Yesterday's "fantasy" becomes tomor-
row's science.
There are some tests you can try to prove certain truths about
color, and these are only two of them. Color possesses temperature.
Red, orange, yellow, and infrared are the "hot" colors, producing heat
that creates strong chemical reactions in the flesh body. Red com-
bined with yellow (creating orange) has the highest temperature.
Blue, violet, ultraviolet, and to a lesser degree, green, are the "cool"
colors. You can measure the temperature of color by placing a ther-
mometer in a glass of red solarized water — or in a glass of cobalt blue
solarized water. The thermometer placed in the red solorized water
will rise to a higher degree than the one placed in the blue glass of
solarized water.
Before placing a thermometer in a glass of red or blue solarized
water, be sure the water is at room temperature, not just brought in
from the hot sunlight exposure or taken from the refrigerator.
Color and white light also possess force and weight. You can

-- 389 of 676 --

326 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
prove this and measure the degree of force or weight of white light (or
colored light, using a colored lens) by using a flashlight and a sen-
sitively balanced scale. The scale will tip in the direction of the light,
either more or less, depending on the color of the light — or whether
it's white light. If you experiment, use a perfectly balanced, sensitive
pharmaceutical scale.
Taking a brief trip down the Nile back to Egypt again, in certain
temples in Egypt, archaeologists have found convincing evidence that
particular rooms were constructed in a design which allowed the rays
of the Sun to enter broken up into the seven colors of the spectrum.
Since these were healing temples, the healers of the day would diag-
nose which color or colors the individual person lacked in the aura,
then send that person into a room to absorb the color ray or rays he or
she needed for the restoration of health — and direct them to take a
color bath. This was also one of the many facets of the building of the
Great Pyramid of Giza, a mystery too profound to delve into in this
book at this time. (And long ago, the Nile was blue . . .'so blue !)
Although I believe in only a part of the Darwin theory of evolu-
tion (the reason will be given in a forthcoming book), anthropologists
and Darwinists have correctly claimed that what they call prehistoric
man — and what I call Earthlings after the Fall, and after a certain
major disaster on the planet — could not see colors. They could
discern only black and white. The ability to see color, anthropologists
claim, "developed slowly." Not true. The ability to see color was
present "in the beginning," then was lost after the Fall . . . and is
returning slowly. Today, we have two extremes: people who are "color
blind," a kind of throwback to the past — and those rare ones, like
Edgar Cayce, who can see the human aura because they're gifted with
extrasensory perception of color, a kind of glimpse into the future.
During the Aquarian Age, men and women are going to need to in-
crease their sense of color and their physical perception of it, if we're
all to adjust and respond to the swiftly growing challenges of science
— some positive, some negative — spawned by the inherent curiosity
of this Uranus-ruled period of history. Color .and music . . our

-- 390 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN RAINBOWS * 327
recognition of the power of both, and our proper use of both ... is
what will save us from the. Gotterdammerung.
Relative to this need, amazing miracles await those who begin
now to study and comprehend color. Life itself is color — and be-
I
cause of this, color can prolong life by curing the improper balance of
I
color in the human aura — or destroy life by creating a color im-
balance. Several noted metaphysicians, among them Goethe, Steiner,
and F. M. Alexander, Tiave stated that, if one's Primary Color Control
: in one's individual aura is not disturbed, is kept in balance, then one
I need not ever either become ill or age. Remember not to confuse the
word age with maturing. Here the meaning is not meant to be aging
past a healthy maturity.
The seven colors of the spectrum and the invisible color rays
must vibrate in each person rhythmically and harmoniously through
the aura. When this rhythm and harmony is disturbed an imbalance
occurs, causing illness — and when that imbalance becomes too great,
death occurs. However, in the musical rhythmic harmony of bal-
anced colors in the aura, death is banished and eternal life may be
achieved. Men and women can live in the same physical body eter-
nally. There need be no aging when there is no awareness of time.
When your aura is color balanced, your thoughts the right color, and
you use color wisdom to keep your Holy Trinity of body, mind, and
soul, in harmony, you can live forever, providing the nuclear madmen
don't blast us involuntarily into another dimension. But . . . good
news ! They won't, for the reason given in the analysis of the 6 and 9
in Chapter 5, about numerology.
Physical immortality is explained in the final chapter of this
book; how to achieve it, the secrets of those who already have
achieved it, why it's possible and attainable when everyone has
reached the enlightened state of eternal life in the same physical, im-
proved, and perfected body. But don't rush ahead to that subject
now, skipping the chapters in between. You'll need the understand-
ing of the next several chapters if you want to successfully penetrate

-- 391 of 676 --

328 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
the mysteries of physical immortality. Right now all you need to real-
ize — and know — is that no one need be ill — age — or die.
On that note, well program the information about forgotten rain-
bows into our brain computer, and move on to forgotten melodies and
the harmonics or synchronization of the Universe. Mozart, Beetho-
ven, and other musical "masters" will join us astrally as we discover
how the Great Pyramid of Giza was constructed, with those very
heavy, perfectly joined stones . . . how Joshua caused the walls of
Jericho to come tumbling down . . . and many more star signs of
magic, mystery, and ancient wisdom.
******

-- 392 of 676 --

7
FORGOTTEN MELODIES
harmonic communication among humans . . .
the power of Silence, Souod, and Music . . .
the synchronicity and Oneness of the Universe . .
how to use these to manifest magic and miracles
*

-- 393 of 676 --



-- 394 of 676 --

Natural Harmonics
and
Off-Key Notes

-- 395 of 676 --

332 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
his eyes were gentle
but his voice flashed fire, as he said . . .
"everything in Nature and in human nature
is composed of Color and Sound . . . these are
the forgotten rainbows and forgotten melodies
of universal harmony
"the life force emanates
from high frequency sound . . . and music
each 'note' corresponding to each 'tone' of color
and you must always remember
that, to create any prismed spectrum
there must be a Light
there are no colors cast at night
without the Light"
then I thought of the stained-glass windows
in the chapel at St. Raphael's
how . . . dark ... the chapel seemed to me at night
when no Light was shining through them
and how silent and less holy a place it was
without the chanting of the nuns
******
olor and Sound. The Rainbow Spectrum and the
Music of the Spheres. We've learned the importance
of color to life itself in the previous chapter, "Forgot-
ten Rainbows." As for the equal importance of
sound, it's been emphasized so simply and so di-
rectly, Earthlings have missed its great significance.
In the Beginning was the Word . . .
Our Universe was created by sound. As were all other Uni-
verses. Our Creators did not act. They spoke. They said, "Let there

-- 396 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN MELODIES * 333
be Light," and there was Light. The formation of all solar systems out
of chaos and the void of darkness was brought about by the spoken
Word of our Creators — both of them — as the Christian Scriptures
still tell us. You would think, wouldn't you, that by now, with all the
sacrilegious surgery committed upon the holy works, the plural pro-
nouns would have been removed by the patriarchs? Evidently, certain
words of truth are divinely protected, and aren't easy to remove.
These have stuck like glue to the pages, down through the Ages. (I
rhymed that on purpose, because rhyme is part of the great secret of
the English language.) For example,. as we've already noted in an
earlier chapter, there are contradictory pronouns in the Bible, right
from "the beginning."
And God said, Let us make man in our image,
after our likeness . . . (was he perhaps talking to himself ?)
Genesis: Ch. 1, Verse 26
In the image of God created he him, male and
female created he them ...
Genesis: Ch. 1, Verse 27
I've always wanted to debate this point with a Jesuit Priest, a
Rabbi or a Mormon Bishop, but it would only lead back into the
circles of convoluted reasoning programmed into these misguided
theologians. They casually dismiss the "us" and "our" pronouns in
Genesis, just as they gloss over the eighteen lost years of Jesus in the
New Testament. Best to "let sleeping dogs (gods backward) lie."
Nevertheless, "us" and "our" remain there, twinkling truth, with a
stubborn determination, almost as though the words themselves were
alive, as they truly are, which you'll discover in the next chapter,
"Lexigrams."
Just as there are tones of colors in the Rainbow Spectrum which
can't be seen with physical vision, such as ultraviolet and infrared,
there are cobrs of tones in the Music of the Spheres which can't be
heard with physical hearing. "In the Beginning," certain sounds pro-

-- 397 of 676 --

334 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
duced differing sets of vibrational frequencies in the ethers. Some of
these were of such low frequency that they formed particles of what
we call "matter," or physical substance. There could be no light, as we
know it, without minute specks of matter in the ethers to reflect it.
There's an intimate connection between color and sound and all
other expressions of life. Sound is on a lower level of the scale,' and
comes just above the form and substance of matter. Consequently,
sound is the intermediary between the higher level of abstract ideas in
the Mind — and concrete form. Sound is capable of molding the
ethers into shapes, and through these shapes, the corresponding
power of the Mind is able to make an impression on physical matter.
Humans have no idea of the power of the sounds they create and
send out into the ethers through their spoken words. If they did, they
would swiftly realize that anything at all may be caused to materialize
through the process of imaging it vividly and intensely in the Mind,
then speaking aloud the sounds or words describing it — and, finally,
observing its materialization into an actual object or event on the
physical level of matter. The "magic wand" is the energy of the Mind
and the energy of Sound. As Einstein proved, and modern science
now accepts, energy and matter are interchangeable.
The foundation beneath this process, however, must be strong
and supportive, or it will all "fall through" with no effect, just as a
house will fall down when the foundation crumbles. That foundation
is the absolute confidence of knowing that "if you have faith as tiny as a
mustard seed, nothing shall be impossible unto you." Once the foun-
dation has been built, and remains sturdy, the three steps of: Image in
the Mind — Ordain through the spoken word — and Manifest into
the physical world — allow any man or woman to create his or her
own miracles.
However, like everything else, the magic is subject to the First
Law of both Physics and Metaphysics — the Law of Polarity — mean-
ing that, when these three steps are used, and what is imaged in the

-- 398 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN MELODIES * 335
mind and ordained through the spoken word (whether you realize
that's what you're doing or not) — is in any way negative, the very
thing you do not wish to happen will occur with equal certainty. This
immutable law is described (but seldom heeded) in phrases such as
"what you fear will come upon you" . . . and President Franklin Roose-
velt's warning, during World War II, that "we have nothing to fear but
fear itself."
Fear is so powerful an emotion, it actually projects a scent or an
odor, a most unpleasant one. Animals scent fear in a human or in
another animal instantly. Fear, you may not realize, is also a most
powerful faith, capable of literally changing the law of physics. Fear is
faith in the negative, and strong faith manifests its images as swiftly and
surely when projected by negative current as by positive.
So many people I know long desperately for something, such as
marriage to a certain person, and because of fear and doubt, use the
powerful magic wand of Image-Ordain-Manifest to bring about the
opposite, which it will always surely do. Then they wonder why.
They blame the failure of happiness to manifest or materialize on some
Deity or some force they call "fate" or "destiny," when all the time,
they are the ones totally responsible for the outcome. Or they blame it
on astrology, not realizing that all astrology can do is to indicate the
timing of certain strong opportunities, making the Image-Ordain-Man-
ifest process much easier, but the stars incline, they do not compel, and in
the final analysis, Free Will can work against the positive oppor-
tunities presented by the cosmic vibrations of the planets (the music of
the spheres). The good side is that Free Will can also mitigate any
negative astrological indications (the sour notes in the symphony of
sound, whether silent or audible). You are the Producer and the Di*
rector of the drama of your life. You cast all the characters in it, who
mingle and act with you. Astrology wrote the script at your birth, on
assignment from you, or from your actions in a former incarnation.
But in the present life drama, you can either produce it or throw it
away and write a new script (as many microcosm producers in Holly-
wood do on occasion). Because you're also the star of the show, it's

-- 399 of 676 --

336 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
sometimes difficult for you to realize how many "hats you wear" in the
production. If "you did, you would know that you can change any
scene — any time you wish.
The difference between Avatars or Gurus and the average Earth-
ling is that the former have their Third Eyes open. They "listen to the
music" and thus are fully aware that they've cast themselves on the
stage of life in a play or drama they have the power and authority to
alter whenever they desire to do so intensely enough. How ? By
changing the unheard melody through tuning in to the "Puppeteer,"
the Higher Self or Spirit, and ordaining a script change, or even replac-
ing one of the players whenever they wish. Not wishing or hoping or
praying. Ordering, commanding — ordaining.
Remember in the Introduction to this book the Guru's first seed-
ing of Lexigrams by calling my attention to the fact that the word
SIMULTANEOUS' contains the words NO TIME, a hint of the angstrom
unit measurements of light waves ? For instance, the life force ener-
gies demonstrated by Cleve Backster's research (detailed later in this
chapter) causing communication between humans, between plants,
between plants and humans and between all living entities, used by
dolphins also in a telepathic sense, occurs simultaneously, or with the
speed of light . . . taking NO TIME. Imaging and ordaining is likewise
accomplished simultaneously and manifested later "in time," occasion-
ally also simultaneously.
Regarding the various musical themes in the harmonics of life
sounded by astrology, did you know that all British monarchs are
crowned at a moment of time calculated by astrologers ? They always
have been — and still are. When Prince Charles takes the throne, the
crown will be placed on his head at a time British astrologers (behind
the scenes) have calculated as propitious. Astrology is quite respect-
able in England, even among the Royals — also in Europe, India,
China and the Arab world.
Astrology is defined by nearly all television stations as "fun and

-- 400 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN MELODIES * 337
games." Psychics are presented in a serious manner on TV's dramatic
series, especially detective shows, in which the predictions or visions
of a psychic are always proven to be correct — and likewise smiled
upon Shirley MacLaine's Out On a Limb (as they well should have).
However, when it comes to astrology, the television codes undergo a
drastic change. An early FCC ruling still observed by individual TV
stations and networks states that astrology cannot be presented on televi-
sion without a disclaimer printed on the screen warring audiences that
astrology is being presented as pure entertainment only, and is not to be
taken as a serious science.
Ronald Reagan has long believed in astrology, and has relied
upon it to guide his major decisions for several decades. A large pho-
tograph of Reagan hangs on the wall in the office of California astrolo-
ger Carroll Righter, along with photos of his other clients — and
under Carroll Righter's guidance, Ronald Reagan asked to be sworn in
as Governor of California at the extremely odd hour of three minutes
past midnight. Likewise, he asked to be sworn in as President of the
United States in a separate ceremony at precisely 1 1:57 a.m. on the day
before the official swearing-in ceremony, and therefore took the oath
of office twice.
Belief in astrology in high government places is not new. Presi-
dent Franklin Roosevelt consulted astrologers regularly. So did Presi-
dent Abraham Lincoln. George Washington and our founding fathers
were all astrologers themselves. Former Vice-President Walter Mon-
dale has written me to express how helpful he found my books Sun
Signs and Love Signs to be. Former Vice-President Nelson Rockefeller
was an astrological client of mine, who wrote to me for astrological
counsel on two occasions. The popular New York astrologer, Evan-
geline Adams, who counseled the likes of J. P. Morgan, who would not
make a move on the stock market without her advice, was the grand-
daughter of President John Quincy Adams and the great-grand-
daughter of President John Adams.
The power of one's negative mental energies (discordant musical

-- 401 of 676 --

338 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
chords) over astrological vibrations often occurs regarding financial
transits and progressed aspects observed at a certain time in a person's
natal chart. Using such financial vibrations as an example, people
never seem to realize that they can't ordain wealth while simultane-
ously imaging poverty. As producer Mike Todd once said, "I've never
yet seen anyone save for a rainy day that the rainy day didn't come,
right on schedule." Truer words are seldom spoken. It's not easy to
walk the tight rope or thin line between the spiritual insurance of
absolute knowing — and the worldly insurance of caution, but Perfect
Balance takes lots of practice on a "tightrope," as any circus performer
can tell you.
The power of spoken (or written) words will be studied in detail
in the following chapter about Lexigrams, but for now, consider the
following evidences of the power of sound. First, you may be won-
dering about the power of sound compared to the power of color, but
you shouldn't be, because each color corresponds to a certain note or
chord, and each note or chord corresponds to a certain color. There-
fore, whether you use the power of Red through color, or through its
corresponding sound of certain Red words or its individual chord of
music in the key of C-major, it's all the same.
A relatively recent discovery has been an instrument called an I
Eidophone. It consists of a tightly stretched drum surface, covered
evenly with a very moldable, pastelike substance. Sounds and words
are uttered beneath the drum by human voices (happy, positive
words) — and the sounds of such spoken words cause beautiful
shapes to form in the flexible paste, exact replicas of trees, ferns and
flowers, as they are in Nature.
If sand is spread on the drum surface instead of the pastelike !
substance, then the sounds of "happy" words spoken beneattl the
drum cause the sand to produce precise geometrical designs, rather
than plant forms. These are called Chladni figures,. after their original
discoverer, inventor Ernst Chladni, who enlightened the late 1700s I
and early 1800s to several secrets of our environment.

-- 402 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN MELODIES * 339
When ugly, obscene or vulgar words are spoken beneath the
drum, creating discordant or disharmonious sounds, both the paste
and the sand form chaotic patterns, with no shape or form.
It's been repeatedly observed and carefully recorded that plants
will grow faster, healthier and taller when "the music of the masters" is
played near them continually, symphonies and the like. When loud
and discordant rock music is played near them continually, the plants
are sickly, grow very slowly, and their growth is stunted, the full
height two to four inches shorter than the plants who were lullabyed
by the harmonious chords of symphonic music.
More evidence of the power of sound is birdsong. Assuming you
don't live full time in the city, have you noticed the chorus of bird-
song, like a thousand elfin choirs, all day long in the spring ?
Have you also noticed that the birdsong ceases during the sum-
mer months, except at dawn and twilight ? When you're having a
picnic in the woods or your back yard on a summer afternoon you'll
hear only an occasional, faint chirp from the top of the tallest trees.
Have you ever wondered why ?
There's a magical reason for this little-known phenomenon of
Nature. The singing of the birds sets up a particular sound vibration
that promotes the growth of the young leaves of trees, plants and
flowers, so the birdsong is fairly constant all day long in the spring,
while the new growth is occurring.
In summer, the birdsong ceases, except at dawn and twilight —
and sometimes, if not quite all of the leaves are full, also during the
early morning hours of summer. After the leaves are full the chemical
activities of the trees, grass, plants and flowers change every day in the
summer — at dawn and at twilight. At night, all plant life breathes in
carbon dioxide. At dawn and early morning, in the summer, they
breathe out pure oxygen. The times of the changeover are heralded
by the birds; are actually stimulated by the birdsong, but the sterile
rules of biology recognize only the synchronicity of it, typically ignor-

-- 403 of 676 --

340 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
ing the clear evidence of cause and effect, unable to explain any other
reason for Nature's precise timing of the seasonal and daily fluctua-
tions of birdsong. In winter months, of course, St. Francis' beloved
feathered friends fly south, to where other green miracles need the
growth signals of the sound of their singing.
Isn't it lovely to know that the birds tell the grass, plants, trees
and flowers when to grow, by setting up the sounds necessary to their
chemical activity by singing — all day long in the spring, and at dawn
and twilight in the summer ? How can anyone think that birds lead
useless, lazy lives ? There's a reason for their singing ! I'm sure that
Francesco Bernadone knew all about this truth of Nature.
How superbly logical, then, for the word NATURE to contain the
word TUNE, since NATURE herself creates the miracle of the song or
the TUNE of the birds causing the growth of Her green trees, grass,
plants and colorful flowers. 1 couldn't suppress this mini-Lexigram
until the next chapter; it's important that you meditate on it now.
.Nature does, indeed, consist of many chords of music, many sounds,
including the "tunes" sung by the birds. Think about this wonder-ful
(full of wonder) proof of the way sound impresses itself on the ethers
to manifest the physical "mattering" of the "matter" of all growing
things. The birdsong is necessary to Nature outdoors because various
unseasonal and unexpected climatic conditions would otherwise fre-
quently halt growth — and greenhouse plants, artificially grown,
would thrive more luxuriantly if recorded birdsong were played to
them.
Why aren't children taught this natural magic in school ? Be-
cause, unfortunately, much truth is not yet taught in schools. They're
still teaching youngsters that Thomas Edison was the "inventor of elec-
tricity," only a half truth, never telling them that Edison merely used,
in his own invention of light bulbs, DC, or Direct Current, while
Nikola Tesla discovered AC, the Alternating Current used today al-
most exclusively.
Our grossly underpaid educators and teachers deserve a large

-- 404 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN MELODIES * 341
measure of our sympathy for their thankless work, especially today,
with the explosion of youthful pregnancies and child drug addicts
threatening to destroy the entire educational system.
Our schools are graduating seven thousand children a year (as of
1987) who cannot read and are classified as illiterate. Yes, there is a
crisis, creating serious discordant notes in the harmonics of the
Universe.
Do you suppose that children might want to learn to read and
might be concentrating less on sex if they weren't being so bombarded
with it on the media and in the classrooms ? Could it be that they
wouldn't so desperately be seeking the "other worlds" of drugs if they
were being taught about all the other worlds under their very noses,
bursting with mysteries and wonders . . . and promises for tomorrow ?
It's possible that they're bored out of their socks with sterile learn-
ing, causing them to tune into the sexual and drug releases with which
their young minds are being unceasingly programmed, and which has
led to an additional crisis, growing by leaps and bounds — juvenile
stress. Child psychologists are at a loss as to how to deal with it.
Maybe both the children's boredom and stress would end if they were
to be exposed to the magic and miracles of the Universe, teaching
them how to tune into their powerful Higher S-elves (they know all
about elves) and by so doing, transform the adult-programmed, ap-
proaching nuclear Gotterdammerung into a golden Age of "wonders
that never cease."
The suicide rate of teenagers, which has doubled during the past
decade and is the second highest cause of death between the ages of
twelve and nineteen, would fall markedly if the teens were inspired
with the exciting future of long-forgotten rainbows and melodies, in-
stead of looking forward to nuclear destruction.
Meanwhile, a teenager somewhere kills himself or herself, com-
mits suicide, every nine minutes. Every nine minutes. What were you
doing yesterday ? Whatever it was, while you were doing it, seventy-

-- 405 of 676 --

342 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
two teenagers were taking their own lives. Today also. And tomor-
row, another seventy-two of them. And the next day . . .
If you're reading this book, and you're between the ages of twelve
and nineteen, have you been tossing the idea of suicide around in your
mind ? While you're tossing it around, figuring that killing yourself
might be like kicking the ball to make your point for the final winning
score — or at least to even the score (with this screwed-up world and
everyone in it) — I have a very personal and intimate story to share
with you.
One night, some years ago, but not too many (and not for the
first time) I, too, decided to seek oblivion. It seemed to me to be a
country mile more intriguing, not to mention more peaceful, than
continuing to swim around, trying to stay afloat and avoid the sharks
in the chaotic waters of confusion threatening to drown me, in both a
personal and general sense, you know ? I kept thinking about what a
bitter acquaintance of mine had said: "There are only two kinds of
people in the world — bastards and victims." It wasn't hard to figure
which group I belonged in.
Since I don't have what it takes to be in the first group, and I was
weary of being in the second group, it made sense to go somewhere
else where there was another club to join — where neither of the other
two existed. I wasn't sure of the directions to wherever it was I would
be going after I was dead, but I wasn't sure of the directions here
either, where, just when you think you've leanued the rules, it's half-
time . . . change sides.
Actually the reasons aren't important. God knows there are
whole bushel baskets of them to choose from, right ? I was living in
New York at the time. (That's one good reason right there !)
I had read an ad in the paper about a telephone number for a
suicide prevention group called "Why Kill Yourself ?" (WKY.) So I
dialed the number, having decided I was checking out for sure, but

-- 406 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN MELODIES * 343
curious to see if anyone had a logical argument against my decision. It
was a Sunday morning. Gloomy Sunday.
The phone rang several times, then a tape-recorded message was
activated, and a pleasant male voice with a southern accent spoke
these words: "Good morning ! This is one of your friends you've
never met. We're really interested in talking with you about why you
want to die. Please call us back Monday through Friday, between ten
a.m. and four p.m. Next Thursday is Thanksgiving, so we'll be closed
all day. Bye !"
I burst out laughing. I couldn't control myself, it was hilarious.
Then I walked over to the mirror, and gazed at my face looking back at
me, without realizing it, also staring into my Third Eye, which I later
figured is why 1 seem to get all of my best ideas when I'm staring into
the mirror, washing my face, brushing my hair or teeth or applying
makeup. Has that happened to you ? (If you're a boy or a man . . .
like, when you're shaving or blow-drying your beard ?)
Well, anyway, I spoke aloud to my mirror image. "Look, knuck-
lehead, now that you know you can't take off on a permanent astral
trip (assuming you want to debate the travel plans with someone first)
before ten in the morning or after four in the afternoon — and never
on weekends or holidays, why don't you hang out a little longer and
see if this (expletive deleted) pineapple-upside-down-cake-freaked-
out world has any more laughs to offer ? Don't cancel your trip to the
cemetery, just postpone it, and who knows ? Maybe the Universe will
abracadabra your own Guru in MacArthur Park to tell you why some-
one left the cake out in the rain, and help you remember the recipe so
you can bake a new one." I did — and it did.
The cake wasn't really ruined, just a little damp. And I found
more laughs too. In fact, I discovered there's more to laugh about
than to cry about in this lunatic asylum where the wise ones are
locked up (people protesting nuclear madness) and the really flaky

-- 407 of 676 --

344 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
ones are running around free. Then I was absorbed in the challenge
of how to reverse or rt-verse the situation, and pretty soon it became
as exciting as working on a blueprint for breaking out of Alcatraz, like
that old Clint Eastwood movie.
There are lots of laughs ahead for you too. Not only laughs, but
also a few certified miracles in assorted sizes, colors and sounds that
are going to really blow you away — not into a casket — into a work-
able Time Machine capable of taking you on trips that will make an
acid trip seem as mild as drinking the sassafras tea Peter Rabbit's Mum
used to brew. I absolutely promise you that, druid honor — and I
have this thing about not breaking promises. Trust me, okay ? No.
Toss out that question mark and give it a period. Trust me.
Anyhow, people forget funerals so quickly today, probably be-
cause they have trouble separating the real deaths from the ones in the
movies and on TV. They all just kind of blend together, consequently
they don't have the same shock effect they used to have. So those
callous creeps you want to really know how really miserable you really
art won't even get the message. They'll just expect you to pop back
up, like Bobby Ewing on Dallas, your dramatic farewell gesture and
(admit it) bid for some genuine sympathy just a part of somebody
else's dream. It's a weird world today, that's for sure. But weirdness
can be fascinating if you keep your sense of humor. Besides, look
what you're doing to the whales and dolphins. Who else is going to
leam how to talk to them if you don't ?
Wander around this Wonderland the way Alice did in the slithy
toves, rap with caterpillars puffing on their hookahs, zonk the Red
Queen and help the Mad Hatter resolve his Time hang-up by setting
his pocket watch for the Eternal Now. Alice had a ball, she did, as
everything grew curiouser and curiouser. So can you.
Now, go stare at your Third Eye in the mirror (it's between your
eyebrows) and flash some fragments of the future. Read this whole
chapter (and the others too), ride your bike, talk to a tree or a plant,

-- 408 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN MELODIES * 345
paint your room yellow, lexigram your problem (next chapter), check
your karmic numbers, get yourself a purple plate (end of this chapter)
and use it to mellow out the person who's so hot, but acting so cool;
I teach your dog some new tricks. Remember, if there's anything in this
,
not-quite-yet-God-forsaken world you don't want to be, it's a statis-
tic. You can think of fifteen million other things that are more satisfy-
i ing than being a statistic. Statistics never have fun, and lord knows
they don't have any laughs. I'll talk to you later. Now I have to go
back to talking turkey to the adults who are playing trivial pursuit
!
with your tomorrow, and see if I can beat them at their own game.
They're the ones who need help, not you. That is, not you when
you're being the real you-of-you, if you know what I mean —- and you
do.
******
The discordant crescendos and clashing chords of sexual and
drug abuse are disrupting the harmony of the Universe, because hu-
mans are an inseparable part of the symphony.
The war on drugs would be more quickly and efficiently won if
our government halted the incoming supply of drugs flooding the
country, which it has the ability to do if it chooses — or if it at least
removed the astronomical profit from selling and pushing, as was
done in England, by setting up clinics where addicts can legally pur-
chase drugs until they can withdraw from them gradually. If people
can't make tons of money pushing drugs, then people stop turning on
'
other people, constantly creating new addicts. It's that simple.- It
takes an awful lot of crime to support a habit you desperately want to
lose, but in the meantime forces you to somehow obtain a thousand
dollars aday — ox more. It will soon cost two thousand dollars a day,
then three thousand dollars a day. The drug pushers are like the
bathtub gin pushers during prohibition; they never get enough. They
always want more. This is so logical one feels silly even pointing it
out.

-- 409 of 676 --

346 * LiNDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
The enormous, completely-out-of-control drug Frankenstein af-
flicting our children today, along with their parents, is the direct re-
sponsibility of our government. It owes Americans a huge karmic
debt. The dominant characters, in the first act of the tragic drama of
drugs are intelligence officers, military personnel and an array of sci- .
entists, working either directly or indirectly for the United States Gov-
ernment, beginning in the early 1950s. Now that the whole thing has
gotten so out of hand that it threatens to destroy America herself, I do
believe it's our government's duty to make a giant and genuine effort
to accept the blame and repair the damage — and they can never
successfully do the latter until they've had the grace to admit the
former.
There are some facts so simple and so obvious that even the Mad
Hatter at a tea party in the White House rose garden could see the
logic. But then, there are those who appear to be a lot madder than
Alice's Hatter who have been in charge of things in Washington for the
past couple of decades.
Its time the White House made a serious effort, not just one
based on political public relations, to help America's helpless, drug-
addicted men, women and children, a responsibility that deserves a
wide margin of priority over the stockpiling of nuclear eggs, of which
we have enough now to blow up ten Universes.
As for the sour notes in the symphony of universal harmony
sounded by sexual abuse, again, the word "abuse" applies to adults,
not children. The proposed sex education programs are clearly neces-
sary if young girls are going to continue to become pregnant in such
droves. But the sex education proponents are missing some points in
all the wild frenzy about the subject.
One thing being overlooked is the old familiar adage that "an
ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure" — no matter what is
being prevented or cured. No one ever talks about or seems to notice
the fact that teenage pregnancies in the 1940s and 1950s, when there

-- 410 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN MELODIES * 347
was no sex education in schools, were nowhere near the alarming
epidemic proportions of the 1980s. Those who are shouting both for
and against sex -education are ignoring the real cause of all this in-
creased sexual activity among children. Sex education is needed, be-
cause the fire is out of control, but the lack of sex education in schools
is not what started the fire — and not what caused it to burn out of
control.
Nothing will change, with or without sex education in schools,
until the real reason children are now concentrating on sex to such an
obsessive degree is recognized.
They're being saturated by a tidal wave of sexually stimulating
material. With these sex images floating around their heads, what are
they supposed to be thinking about — daisies and bunny rabbits ?
Bemoaning the fact that children are becoming sexually active at ten
and twelve is like dumping a white woolly lamb in a pile of manure,
then shaming it for being so dirty. Blaming the out-of-control sexual
fires burning throughout the schools on a lack of sex education is only
a front for the real cause.
Teaching sex in school is one thing. Teaching moral values is
another. Even the first grade may be too late for the latter. One of the
very real wisdoms of the Catholic Church, scattered among the flaws it
shares with other orthodox religions, and to the best of my knowl-
edge, exclusive with the Roman Church, is the truism of "Give me a
child till it's seven" Meaning that Holy Mother Church (give the patri-
archs credit for that correct term) has discovered, through the experi-
ence of centuries, that the moral values and religious teachings seeded
into a child's mind from birth to the age of seven years will nearly
always remain throughout the ensuing years, despite conflicting social
and environmental influences.
The Church is astrologically correct. (There's a deep meta-
physical mystery behind that age of seven years, revealed in Gooberz.)
If revelations of cosmic intelligence were to be taught in schools,

-- 411 of 676 --

348 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
using the amazingly effective Socratic method of asking, rather than
telling, the children of the Aquarian Age might remain children as they
mature, retaining the power to turn this new Age into what our
Creators meant it to be.
What a lightning flash of Love and Light would illuminate our
schools if there were classes in esoteric astrology (not the twisted and
distorted form of it currently practiced by charlatans) — in numer-
ology, Lexigrams, natural magic, the wonders of the Oneness of the
Universe, the forgotten rainbows and forgotten melodies of color and
sound — and holistic health. The children then would be so intensely
Eascinated, inspired and challenged they wouldn't have any time or
interest to give to premature sexual activity or drug experimentation.
These would swiftly be ignored in the excitement of making miracles.
Children understand miracles. That is, they do until their Third
Eyes are sealed shut by their parents, relatives and teachers. Everyone
would make straight As on their report cards if, instead of cutting up
helpless frogs in biology class, they studied why frogs and crickets
sing at night, why birds sing at dawn. You think I'm imaging a Utopia
or Shangri-La ? Well, yes. But why must Utopia and Shangri-La (Thy
Kingdom come on Earth, as it is in Heaven) be given permission to
exist only in a dim and undefined Future ? Why not in the Present,
since Past, Present and Future are all One — another shining truth not
taught to children in our society. What a shame. Children would not
only grasp the concept quickly, they would even be able to teach the
teachers a thing or two about Einstein's Relativity and the Eternal
Now.
There's not a child, not a single boy or girl who wouldn't be
fathoms more interested and excited in how Joshua caused the walls of
Jericho to crumble' (about which more later in this chapter) — or
about the fascinating research into the intelligence of plants by India's
Sir Bose, Dr. Harold Burr, Cleve Backster and others — than in long
and explicit explanations of sexual intercourse between humans. The

-- 412 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN MELODIES * 349
former two areas we'll be covering shortly — the latter is something
children will learn for themselves when they mature and fall in love.
Mother Nature is a peerless, unsurpassed teacher in the classroom of
love. And love can't really be taught. It happens naturally, as does
sex, when children aren't bombarded with it prematurely. First love,
then sex. Everything spins upside down when the natural order of
these two profound experiences is reversed — and it's not easy to turn
it rightside up again.
The singing of the birds is only one of many phenonoma all
around us emphasizing the importance of sound, which would be
easily comprehended by children, but is apparently too simple and
direct for most botanists to grasp its deep significance.
Sound caused the building of the Great Pyramid of Giza. The
original Pyramid, subsequently structurally altered by later Pharaohs,
was built by Osiris, not Cheops (Khufu), many millions of years earlier
than our geologists have wrongly calculated and presently believe.
Osiris knew how to use the mighty power of sound, chanted harmo-
nies and intonations. Those huge stones, so perfectly aligned —
through a power modern science ignores; therefore, an engineering
feat modern science couldn't possibly achieve — were levitated into
precise position by certain sounds or mantras, sung or chanted by
Osiris and his Twin Self, Isis (her name contained within his), at intri-
cately calculated astrological times, measured by particular alignments
of the Sun, Moon and planets.
Some of the most wondrous sounds of the harmony of the Uni-
verse are the sounds oj silence, and one of these is . . . dolphin talk.
These beautiful creatures of the sea have been around for perhaps
sixty million years (or longer) — enough Earth time to have accumu-
lated a lot of wisdom. Dolphins make certain sounds, but it's their
mental telepathy communication ... the sound of their silence . . .
that marine biologists of vision are trying so hard to decode. Dolphins
can talk, but you have to converse with them in their own telepathic

-- 413 of 676 --

350 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
language. Some humans already have received their messages ....
also some who were nearly human, shortly before they fully became
so.
Ill explain what I mean. If you saw the motion picture Star Trek
IV, youll remember the scene where Spock swims underwater, in a
tank holding a captive dolphin, and "talks to it." The dolphin talks
back to Spock, who returns to Captain Kirk and translates for him
what he's been told by the dolphin — which of course turns out to be
quite true.
That was fiction, or science fiction, which always becomes reality
in the future. But here's something that's definitely not fiction.
A friend of mine in California, who is also a friend of the man
who makes the purple plates well learn about at the end of this chap-
ter, and who has asked that his name not be used here because he's
not quite ready to make his- findings public, told me an amazing true
story of dolphin experiments in Russia — some here in America, but
very top secret.
You understand, I trust, that there are "white hats" and "black
hats" in every government agency, whether it's our FBI and CIA or
Russia's KGB.' Whether in government or organized religion, there are
the "good guys" and trie "bad guys" and the "medium guys" or the
"gray hats."
My friend, because of a friendship with a relative of a "white hat"
Russian KGB agent, was able to obtain permission to enter that coun-
try and observe some of their dolphin experiments and their results.
These are research projects in metaphysics and related subjects con-
ducted in the Soviet Union far beyond those described in Sheila Os-
trander and Lynn Schroeder's book, Psychic Discoveries Behind the Iron
Curtain.
Only a small part of the dolphin sound experiment is this: Preg-

-- 414 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN MELODIES * 351
nant women are placed in the. water each day of their pregnancy, with
a dolphin. A marine biologist is present at all times for safety rea-
sons. The woman remains in the water for fifteen to twenty minutes a
day. During these visits, the dolphin communicates with the fetus.
To be more exact — (because the fetus, as you will learn in Chapter 8,
is not yet human, because the breath of life, its first breath, when the
essentially water-breathing creature becomes an air-breathing crea-
ture, is when actual life begins) — to be more exact, the dolphin in
some way, through that same life force energy connecting all living
things Cleve Backster has observed, in -some way programs a portion
of the more than forty billion electric cells in the physical brain of the
fetus during these prenatal visitations.
The infant is then delivered underwater (in a sterile tank without
a dolphin, of course). All kinds of marvelous things occur when any
infant is thus delivered, but this isn't the place to go into all of them.
For one thing, it prevents improper breathing in this tiny human, and
avoids the terribly damaging trauma of being born in the accepted
way. These babies don't cry, and can sleep with their faces in water
for minutes at a time for several weeks, gradually adjusting to breath-
ing air. There is no fear and no fright in this kind of gentle birth, and
it's recommended — only when an expert is in charge — for every
birth.
These Russian infants, with whom a dolphin has communicated
prenatally, or rather communicated with the brain cells of the fetus,
become "super children." In every imaginable way. My friend attests
to seeing with his own eyes one of these dolphin-programmed, born-
underwater babies, who, at the age of twelve weeks, was walking and
talking with the ease of an average three-year-old child.
Do you find this difficult to believe? A small Earthling is capable
of these powers, even without dolphin communication — and how
much more so with help from these wise ocean creatures. The CBS
network program Sixty Minutes has already interviewed a young Amer-

-- 415 of 676 --

352 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
ican boy of ten who is an amazing genius. When this child was only
seven weeks old, he was talking, saying "hello" clearly to his father, and
repeating other words distinctly a few weeks later. When he was only
three and a half years old, instead of scribbling with crayons, he was
reading biographies of Albert Einstein and Nikola Tesla.
The world is, indeed, full of wonders, in this dawning of the Age
of Aquarius. My friend says that the Russian metaphysicians claim it's
theoretically possible for a dolphin-trained child, by the time he is
twelve years old, to be able to use his Third Eye as a laser beam and
dematerialize or neutralize nuclear missiles in flight. Makes our War
Department's Star Wars project seem impotent. It would be much
cheaper and much safer to experiment with dolphin babies — in the
cause of peace, would it not ? There is no evidence that the Russians
are experimenting for any cause other than peace. Indeed, the reason
their psychic research has been so successful thus far is that the re-
searchers well understand the universal laws governing such matters,
and they couldn't have progressed this far with anything but a positive
goal. Perhaps this is why it's been predicted that Russia will someday
become "the most spiritual country in the world," eventually aligning
itself with America in the struggle against negative forces threatening
Earth's survival.
******
Dolphins communicate with, as dolphin friend Jim Cummings
has written, a rich and varied set of sounds — and "it seems they have
also developed (or perhaps never abandoned) the ability to share in-
formation telepathically '
. humans are now noticing that, when
they quiet the endless verbal chatter echoing through their language-
filled brains, there is a quieter, more universal mode of communica-
tion and knowing waiting to be tapped."
Some marvelous things are being accomplished regarding dol-
phins by Joan Ocean and Jean-Luc Bozzoli through their Dolphin Con-
nection, in Laguna Beach, California.

-- 416 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN MELODIES * 353
Joan receives communications from the dolphins, some of which
have been technical in nature, and which are passed on to scientists
for interpretation and application. She is not alone. People in Colo-
rado, California, Florida and Australia have reported messages from
dolphins concerning social interactions, human history and music.
Joan has been taken for rides by dolphins, and expressed amaze-
ment at their incredible power combined with their sensitive and syn-
chronized movements. Jean-Luc felt that the variety of sonar and
audible vibrations filling the water was like "being in the middle of a
concert."
As those involved with the Dolphin Connection have learned, sim-
ple people living in magic can make a difference. If you would like to
contact these people, join "their gentle efforts and be part of their
dream for harmony on Earth, you may write to them in care of The
Dolphin Connection — P.O. Box 4077, Laguna Beach, California
92652 — USA.
******
I thought this a most unusual wish
to be part of a classroom in a school of fish
and decided you must be joking with me
but you said, quite seriously
I'm not joking at all
fish are wiser than most people surmise
is that what your secret assignment is ?
are you going to try to teach dolphins to talk ?
you looked straight into my eyes
when you replied
if I ever became friends with a dolphin
I would never presume to try to teach such a creature

-- 417 of 676 --

.354 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
more evolved than most humans could ever be
on the contrary, I would try to learn
all the levels of insight and depths of wisdom
a dolphin might he kind enough
to share with me
train dolphins for secret missions ?
Td prefer to train them how to remain free
that is ... if I were ever to meet one
and the two of us
should happen to share a cup of tea
then you smiled
and changed the subject . . .
from Gooberz
******
Felix Mendelssohn, the great-grandson of the composer, began
experimenting with the power of sound because of his interest in the
recognized phenomenon of the power of musical notes, when sung in
certain keys. He knew, and was fascinated by the fact that, when a
singer hits a particular note in a certain musical key, the sound thus
sent into the ethers will instantly shatter a glass — each glass possess-
ing its own individual vibratory frequency, which will respond only to
the exact corresponding musical sound.
Every material object and each human being vibrates at an indi-
vidual frequency of angstrom units per second, a measurement of light
waves, as we learned in Chapter 3, "Gurus, Ghosts, and Avatars" —
and will respond to that particular individual frequency produced by a
sound, which is why you sometimes feel a tingle in the back of your
neck when you're in a concert hall, listening to a symphony. Some-
where, within the chords and sounds filling the hall, you're hearing

-- 418 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN MELODIES * 355
your personal frequency, just as a glass shatters in response to its very
individual frequency sound.
Before there was Maria Callas, there was Rosa Ponselle. Even
Maria herself called her "the greatest singer of all of us." Ponselle
(1897-1981) possessed an incomparable voice. In 1954, RCA tried
to record her at home in Baltimore, but her voice shattered more than
a glass. It shattered all of RCA s equipment !
******
Mendelssohn's research, conducted with his Third Eye wide
open, led him to realize that the biblical account of Joshua and the
crumbling of the walls of Jericho was literal, not symbolic. As he
knew, and as everyone who's ever been in the Army knows, when a
group of soldiers are marching u
in time," rhythmically — left, right,
left, right — toward a hastily constructed bridge, the Sergeant will call
out a command to "Break step !" before the men actually reach the
bridge, especially if it's a fragile one. Why ? Because the rhythm of all
those feet, pounding the ground "in time" together, sets up a vibration
that has the power to damage or destroy the bridge structure.
Mendelssohn then concluded that the armies led by Joshua ap-
proached the walls of Jericho "in step" together — thousands of feet
pounding the ground in unified tempo — which produced a mighty
and particular vibration in the Earth, so that when Joshua (who was
metaphysically knowledgeable) then blew a particular note on the
Ram's horn, the combination of marching feet in rhythm and the
individual frequency note or tone of the wall structure sounded clearly
on the Ram's horn caused the walls of Jericho to respond, and come
"tumbling down," perfectly fulfilling a natural law of harmonics. How
pleasingly appropriate that a descendant of a musical composer, a
musical "Master," should have uncovered this truth of sound, as re-
lated to Joshua.
The same principle applies to the certain rhythmic sound fre-

-- 419 of 676 --

356 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
quency sacredly chanted by Osiris possessing the powerful energy to
move even huge stones and rocks, levitating them into precise align-
ment in forming the Great Pyramid of Giza.
If science today refuses to heed the logic of Mendelssohn's dis-
covery of why the walls of Jericho came tumbling down — or the logic
of how the Pyramid was built by levitation caused by musical sounds
and incantations — one might deduce that it's because these events
happened so long ago, so far back in antiquity. But that doesn't ex-
plain why the natural magic of birdsong and the modern Eidophone
are likewise ignored by the boys with microscopes, yardsticks, cal-
culators and computers, who still can't grasp or comprehend the defi-
nite forms and radiations produced in the ethers by sound — even by
(and perhaps especially by) our spoken words. One can only ordain
that someone soon rips off the blindfolds and dark glasses of dogma
they're wearing, or, at the rate present-day technology is going, we'll
be blasted back into the Stone Age on the glorious wings of science
before we've had a chance to experience the wonderland of the new,
golden Age of Aquarius. There 'are positive signs that the needed mir-
acle may occur in time Reading more or less between the lines of
medical journals and scientific periodicals of the early 1980s, the hints
are there that a few sleepy Third Eyes are being gradually awakened.
As I mentioned in an earlier chapter, we still possess the saving
grace of the music of the "masters," directed into the minds of the
great composers of the past, who were pure channels, born with a
natural musical genius.
The reason for those stirring symphonies, operas, works like
"The Messiah," the eternally uplifting music of Christmas carols and
certain old church hymns being channeled was to guide material-
minded humans along the path of gradual illumination, in a subtle,
subliminal sense, through these very high frequency vibrations of
sound. Thus far they've been successful in at least somewhat soothing
savage humans, who need soothing more than the so-called "savage
beasts." This form of enlightenment began during the Dark Ages,

-- 420 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN MELODIES * 357
thanks to the sacred music of the Catholic Church, and increased
during the lifetimes of men like Mozart, Albinoni, Bach, Brahms, Men-
delssohn, Tchaikovsky, Puccini, Sibelius and a long list of others. The
evolvement of Earthlings through the "music of the masters" was aided
by the "art of the masters," as the Higher Powers used the artistic
genius of painters like Rubens, Michelangelo, Rembrandt and
Leonardo da Vinci to channel the harmonies of color and form into
the human mind, along with the harmonies of sound, through music.
Chording into the symphony of enlightenment came the poets, begin-
ning with Shakespeare, and even earlier with Greek and Roman
drama, who have been similarly channeled to shine the Light of the
harmony of the rhythm and rhyming of words into the darkness on
Earth.
Without these harmonic impressions on the ethers manifesting
into the forms and patterns of music, art and poetry, the scientific and
technological "advances" made by man would have long ago destroyed
all life on this planet, as they currently threaten to do. But a threat is
only a threat. The evidence that it won't result in annihilation is given
in Chapter 5, "Numerology." Already, in 1987, a new Russian leader,
Gotbachev, has emerged, giving every indication of a sincere attempt
to reach across old misunderstandings — if only a genuine commu-
nion, based on a full recognition of the past mistakes of both sides can
be realized before certain madmen's pet project of Star Wars is
launched. Then maybe this latest nuclear insanity can be tossed back
into a Star Trek* script, where it belongs — an opinion shared by
astrology's enemy, the nevertheless brilliant Scorpio astronomer, Carl
Sagan, who may yet be illuminated to the message of true astrology,
the mother (as he well knows) of astronomy.
Eagle Scorpio Sagan is aware that all the great so-called astrono-
mers of the past, such as Johannes Kepler, Galileo, Copernicus, New-
ton and Tycho Brahe, builder of the first observatory in the western
world — were astrologers, who had never even heard of the term
*Be patient, Trekkies. Count to ten. Wait.

-- 421 of 676 --

358 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
"astronomy" in their lifetimes. True, Carl ? Maybe we can share a
cup of peppermint tea and discuss it someday. I've ordained your
conversion, so you haven't a chance ! Astrology needs minds like
yours, and I congratulate you for going to jail for speaking out against
nuclear testing.
Meanwhile, don't forget that it was Johannes Kepler, an indisput-
able genius, as you've recognized yourself, who wrote in his research
notes that: "In me, Saturn and the Sun work together in their sextile
aspect ... to toil up mountains, to stumble over fields and rocky
slopes . . . these things delight me. .My destiny is similar; where others
despair, money and fame come to me, though in modest measure . . .
and I meet opposition . . . true astrology is a holy testimony to God's
glorious works, and I, for one, do not wish to dishonor it." I suppose
you've noticed that he qualified his assertion with the words "true
astrology," Carl. That's the kind I just mentioned to you.
Regarding my suggestion of tossing the Star Wars concept back
into a Star Trek script where it belongs, I hasten to assure my Trekkie
readers that I adore Star Trek as much as you do, except for the violent
wars that sometimes explode in space. I'm sure Captain Kirk agrees
with me, not to mention Spock, who certainly has his odd-shaped
head screwed on straight, and who needs those enormous ears so he
can hear the sounds of silence in the cosmos, which vibrate to the
pulsing colors and chords of Pax et Bonum on the higher frequency
light waves to which Spock is so finely tuned. Eventually, he'll even
pick up the even higher frequency of the emotion of love. Actually, he
already has; he's just pretending not to hear. He's waiting for his Twin
Self. Like I said, Spock's odd-shaped head is screwed on straight/and
his heart, as large as his ears, is likewise properly aligned with the rest
of him. He communicates with dolphins. He even writes poetry, and
everyone knows one can't become a poet without vibrating to the
harmonics of love.
It's just that Spock isn't turned on by all those mini-skirted space
women batting their long, sweeping lashes on the Enterprise. I hap-

-- 422 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN MELODIES * 359
pen to know whereof I speak, since one of my personal Gurus (also'
the long-time Guru of Star Trek producer and writer, Gene Rodden-
berry), Dr. Charles Arthur Muses, was the behind-the-scenes editor of
some of those early Star Treks — and the seeder of important concepts
dramatized in the series, such as the benign aliens in "Assignment
Earth," a top favorite with true Trekkies.
Here's another fascinating example of the synchronicity and the
harmonics of the Universe, covering all of the senses, including the
sixth sense, color and sound, as well as just about every other known
vibratory frequency. As far as I know, it's an experiment which has
not yet been attempted or researched, but certainly one deserving of
serious attention and study by New Age scientists.
Everything on Earth of a material nature has its origin in the
planets. (This wasn't always so; it only commenced at a certain Time,
but again, that's a subject for later books following this one. Each
planet and each Luminary (Sun and Moon) vibrates to a particular
corresponding number ... the number to a color ... the color to a
mineral and a metal ... to a flower ... to a musical note or tone (same
word in Lexigrams !) . . . and so forth. Each planet and each Lumi-
nary possesses its own individual frequency pattern, even as you and
I, the New York Public Library and every television or radio channel
— even as your morning grapefruit —the refrigerator where it's kept
cold for your breakfast — and all the glasses in your china closet. The
dishes too.
The single frequency, increased tenfold, involved in the experi-
ment initiates with one of the Luminaries (Sun-Moon) or planets, and
since Mars is the one with which I'm most familiar, it being my own
Sun Sign ruler, I'll use it to illustrate my example of this intriguing
multiple vibration of a single frequency.
It works in a similar, but individual pattern involving color, mu-
sical tone or note, gem, metal, herb, flower and so on, with the Sun,
the Moon and other planets or stars. The word planet is an old Greek

-- 423 of 676 --

360 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
word meaning "wandering star" (planets wander, Fixed Stars do not)
— so either term is correct, although modern popular usage is planet.
I like star. Especially "wandering star."
Before I describe the experiment, I must regretfully (and some-
what uncomfortably) apologize to you for an error in my last two
books, Sun Signs and Love Signs, in which I named the diamond as the
gem vibrating to Mars-Aries — and the ruby (along with the onyx) as
vibrating to Saturn-Capricorn. To admit an error is painful to Rams,
but at least we're honest enough to do so directly, with no sneaking
around. I relied on an ancient astrological work, which has proven to
be reliable over the years in every way, except regarding this particular
gem assignment, and my attention was called to the error not long ago
by one of my Avatar-Adepts of impeccable authority, Dr. Charles
Muses — so I have no choice but to blush, say I'm sincerely sorry, and
correct the mistake here and now.
The truth is — the metaphysical fact is — that the diamond
vibrates to Saturn-Capricorn, and the ruby vibrates to Mars-Aries.
Any Aries Ram can see why I accepted the mistake in that ancient
tome, stating that the gem vibrating to the Mars frequency is the dia-
mond. Because, you see, the diamond is "the hardest substance
known to man," and we Rams do enjoy believing we're tough.
However, even a Ram has to admit that ice-cold, stoney-faced
Old Man Saturn, ruler of Capricorn, is . . . well . . . tougher. But only
in a material sense of substance ! A rock is a rock, after all. So, I
submit, like a meek little white wooly lamb, to the superior esoteric
wisdom of my Adept-Guru, and hereby surrender "my" diamond to
stuffy grandpa Saturn.
The true gem of Mars is the ruby. The color is certainly logical.
Oh, well, rubies are prettier than diamonds. Diamonds are too icy
cold, with all that arctic glitter, right ? Rubies are warmer . . . even
hotter !
But guess what, fellow Aries creatures ! Our Mars ruby is used in

-- 424 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN MELODIES * 361
the laser, which is the only power capable of penetrating the "hardest
substance known to man" — Old Man Saturn's diamond. Warrior
Mars can break Saturn's icy resistance, shatter that Saturnine strictness
and discipline with typical Martian aggressive penetration. So there !
Saturn didn't really win, after all. It's a draw.
Unfortunately, though, Saturn-Capricorn, with those blasted
Goat's horns, still wins the final victory. It annoys me to confess that,
speaking numerologically, Saturn vibrates to the number 8, while
Mars vibrates to the life force number 9. And . . . when you add
Saturn's double serpent circle 8 to the 9 of Mars, you get 17. Having
already read the numerology chapter, you know what that means. We
end up by adding the 1 and the 7 to get Saturn's 8 again. Curses !
Oh, well, he who is last shall be first, you know. Mars will win yet,
you'll see.
At any rate, you can still use the onyx for Saturn, because it is
definitely Saturn's secondary gem, after the . . . diamond. Finally,
then, here is the Mars single frequency multiple vibration — (now that
my former goof is, 1 trust, fully atoned for with my readers) — and 111
change the reference in my first two books at the earliest opportunity,
I promise.
Mars vibrates to the number 9 — which vibrates to the frequency
of the color crimson red — which vibrates to iron — which vibrates to
the powerful (!) ruby — which vibrates to garlic and onion — which
vibrates to the daisy — which vibrates to the day of the week, Tuesday
— which vibrates to the month of April — which vibrates to the
musical note or tone of C Major.
Now, supposedly and theoretically, if one gathered together nine
Aries people, who were each born on a Tuesday, April 9 — and placed
them in a room on a Tuesday, April 9 — all wearing solid crimson red
clothing — with the walls and ceilings painted crimson red — red
color filters on the lights in the room (red bulbs) — lots of daisies —
plenty of garlic and onions (yuk !) — with a large bowl of . . . uh,

-- 425 of 676 --

362 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
rubies — (and security guards, 1 guess, outside the door of the room !)
— and everyone also wearing . . . uh . . . rubies — with plenty of iron
furniture in the room — and then, should the note of C Major be
played on a musical instrument, such as a violin, and sustained for 27
seconds (adding to 9) — everyone in the room would instantly and
simultaneously levitate. Right up to the ceiling !
The reason for such a theory of levitation is based on the great
increase in intensity of that particular, individual, multiple-layered
vibrational frequency. Harmonics again. It would be an interesting
experiment, undeniably. Naturally, it would take some preliminary
research, and some cooperation from Harry Winston or Tiffany's for
the diamonds. Excuse me, I mean the rubies.
There are infinite demonstrations of the beautiful synchronicity
of the Universe, flowing from the harmonics of color and sound and
the pulsing rhythms thus set into motion, in every imaginable facet of
life. There are discordant patterns, too, but fortunately, the sour notes
in the symphony are minor, and more than balanced by the harmo-
nious chords.
Even written words fall into individual harmonic patterns, sans
the conscious awareness of the writer. Here's a computer statistic you
may find worth a thought or two. (Computers are proving many
harmonies and synchronicities of the world around us. Until humans
realize that their brains are superior computers, the mechanical ones
will continue to enlighten us.) Researchers have learned by computer
count of the strange patterns of written words. One example is that
the splendid and awesome vocabulary of Shakespeare extended to
29,060 words in his entire works. Yet just forty of them comprise
fully forty percent of the text of all his plays. Imagine it ! Forty poor
overworked words performing nearly fifty percent of a task that em-
ploys 29,060 workers. Doesn't that arouse your sympathy for those
forty wretched words ? Or maybe they should be thought of as
blessed, not cursed. "Many are called but few are chosen." With all
this harmonic evidence, you'd almost believe that words are entities

-- 426 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN MELODIES * 363
with minds of their own. After reading the following Lexigram chap-
ter, I trust you'll more than "almost" believe it.
Here's another surprising symmetry discovered by computers,
which are proving the truth of universal harmony until the human
brain learns how to tackle it alone. A brilliant Harvard Professor with
the curious name of George Kingsley Zipf (1902-1950) decided to
turn to the computer to check the census population patterns of the
fifty largest cities in the United States. He began with the year 1930,
when the largest city was New York, as it still is, of course. The second
j
largest city had half the population of New York. The third largest had
^one-third the population of New York . . . and so on, all the way down
to the fiftieth largest city, which was, incredibly, exactly one-fiftieth
the population of New York. A series like that: one half — one third
— one fourth — one fifth — and so on, is called "harmonics"
(appropriately).
From out of this and extensive further such research, was born
what many computer researchers and experimenters call ZipPs Law.
Zipfs Law has given evidence that any allocation of resources —
whether it be human population, words in books, typewriters in
stores, kindergarten teachers, video tapes or tools in a tool box — will
eventually settle down into a harmonic arrangement
That should certainly knock the stuffing out of anyone who still
ridicules the law of harmony or disbelieves in the synchronicity of the
Universe (theorized and written about by Dr. Carl Jung) and give the
doubting Thomases a healthy respect for these invisible rhythms con-
tinually pulsing around us.
Meditating on all these wonders is excellent exercise for the Third
Eye (the pineal gland) and helps to connect it to the pituitary gland, a
union which then produces remarkable insight. Meditate on these
.
magics as you fall asleep at night. Also, you'll find that, if you concen-
trate intensely on something — anything — at that floating moment
between wakefulness and sleep (between the physical, material world

-- 427 of 676 --

364 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
and the astral realms) — when you awaken in the morning, the ari
swer or the perfect solution to what you were wondering about
were concerned about as you fell asleep will flash into your mind, i
clear as can be. Try it. It works.
All your Higher Self needs is an order from you to perform
manner of magic "tricks," in the same way as imaging mentally th
exact time you want to awaken in the morning as you fall asleep (befl
cause you don't have an alarm clock) will code into your Higher SeM
(who can read time as clearly as you can with physical vision) — anJ|
cause Him or Her to waken you at precisely that time. I do that a lota
Haven't you ever tried it ? The effective technique is to image vividly
the face of the clock, with the hands set at the time you want to be!
awakened. Your Higher Self, who sees even more clearly than you doj
with your physical eyes, will see when the clock hands point to thaw
time, and gently, softly and surely awaken you.

-- 428 of 676 --

Primary
Cell Perception

-- 429 of 676 --

366 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
Another term for — another way of expressing the harmonics or
the synchronicity of the Universe — \s The Oneness of the Universe.
The Oneness of the Universe is what is being studied and ob-
served by my friend and "big brother," Cleve Backster, of San Diego,
California, formerly of New York. For a long time, orthodox science
scoffed at Cleve 's inspired experiments, because they involved matters
(and non-matter) scientists couldn't see or hear or touch with their
five senses. It's a rare scientist who has activated the sixth sense of.
sensitive intuition, leading to truth, although in Cleve, who is quite.
Spock-like, that sense has been finely tuned from the day he was born
as a curious Pisces Fish. Finally, even the impeccably respectable,
ultra-conservative American Association for the Advancement of Sci-
ence (AAAS) has been forced to recognize his pioneer work in the field
of cellular research, and has accurately, albeit somewhat reluctantly, ]
called him "The Father of Primary Cell Perception."
When he was invited to address this august group in New York
some years ago Cleve, with his subtle Neptune sense of humor (pan of
the sixth sense) told his audience of scientists, after being duly intro- |
duced as the Father of Primary Cell Perception, that "the way you j
people have been receiving my research, I feel more like its unwed J
mother."
First of all, since it's nothing to be ashamed of, but more likely
something to be grateful for, it should be known at the outset that
Cleve does not possess a degree, a Masters or a Doctorate in any of the I
scientific "disciplines." Although he studied civil engineering, agri- J
culture and psychology at Texas University, Texas A&M and Ver-
mont's Middlebury College, he lacks about one semester's credits for a
Bachelors degree. However, he does possess a very high "degree" of
sensitive perception, logic and common sense (which, of course, is not
all that common).
When one's Third Eye is opened as widely and functioning as
effectively as Backster's, orthodox higher education can be more of a

-- 430 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN MELODIES * 367
'
hindrance than a help, in blocking clear thinking by restricting the
imagination. In the same way that Abraham Lincoln became a lawyer,
Cleve is mainly self-taught. Even without pursuing a Ph.D., one
needs to master bushels of reading and' study, but more true knowl-
edge is gained when one studies what one is intensely interested in
than from being forced to take courses of study for "credits" pre-
scribed by others simply because this was the custom during the past
decades in what was, quite literally, a completely different world. The
Aquarian Age has changed all rules.
The majority of those who have discovered or invented concepts
that speeded up the evolution of Earth didn't possess the sheepskin
many people today consider a necessary insurance policy for career
success. But being deprived of that big degree can turn out to be a big
plus. Let's make that a Big Plus.
If he had not been "deprived" of a master's degree in whatever
scientific "discipline," Cleve Backster, the father of primary cell per-
ception, might never have sired this miracle "child" destined to change
, the basic thought process of cynical modern science — and that he is
| surely doing ! Then the scientists all over the world, not to mention
you and me, would never have known that you can't cut your finger
without it being felt and registered by the celery and brussels sprouts
in your refrigerator, or more poetically . . . that "you can't touch a
flower without trembling a star."
There's always a compensation for every apparent "curse," ready
to turn it into a blessing. Like the old faerie tale. How could the
handsome Prince have known the Princess truly loved him for him-
self, if a wicked spell hadn't transformed him into an ugly, warty toad,
and she kissed him anyway, not even knowing that it was a temporary
affliction ? Another "curse," which was, in reality, a blessing in dis-
guise. Do I sound like Pollyanna ? Nothing wrong with that. Pol-
lyanna had some very neat concepts of happy. I happen to consider
this "degree or not degree" of importance to high-school graduates
today, who, for financial reasons, have been unable to enroll in col-

-- 431 of 676 --

368 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
lege. You "deprived" ones must remember that Alexander the Great
had conquered the world by the time he was eighteen, and had never,
taken a single course in "conquering" !
Cleve Backster, who is now world recognized for challenging the
scepticism of science regarding primary cell perception, began his re-
search campaign in the early morning hours of February 2, 1966,
Groundhogs Day (!), most appropriate for the elfin-eared Vulcanite
who may be Spock in disguise, for all I know. (I accuse him of this
periodically.)
Sitting in the New York lab of his Backster Research Foundation
(now located in San Diego), Cleve was lost in one of his Neptunian
reveries when he happened to glance at the large green plant in the jj
comer of the lab, which was possibly carrying on a friendly conversa-
tion with him on whatever astral level he was mentally jogging around
in at the moment. To be precise, the plant's true botanical name is
Dracaena massangeana. Since it looked a little droopy to our sympa-
thetic Fish, he decided to water it. On the way to do so, he suddenly
wondered how long it would take the water to travel from the roots to '
the leaves, since it looked so desperately thirsty, so after he watered it
he connected a pair of polygraph electrodes to one of the leaves, no |
doubt feeling foolish (an action one trained in scientific "disciplines"
. would never have been caught taking) — and waited to see if possibly |
the moisture might slowly and gradually change the plant's resistance |
level enough to register on the graph paper.
Bingo ! He was shocked (to the degree a Piscean can be shocked; J
it's hard to surprise them) to see an immediate reaction pattern from i
the now perkier plant that closely resembled the response of a human I
under emotional stimulation. Next he wondered, with mounting ex- t
citement and curiosity, if the plant would also produce on the graph
paper a "human" response to a threat to its well-being and safety, and
decided to try burning one of its leaves.
What happened then was most fortunate, because I frankly doubt

-- 432 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN MELODIES * 369
if the tender-hearted Fish would have been able to carry through such
a hurtful attack on his pet Dracaena to its conclusion. He didn't have
„to, because, before he could even locate a match — (he didn't have a
lighter since he's a non-smoker, but a most tolerant one, not one of
those paranoid, hysterical, non-smoking dictators) — before he could
find a match — well, let's allow Cleve to tell it in his own words. "At
the split second I had the image of fire in my mind, the recording pen
went wild, and bounced right off the chart. It really shook me up."
It was clear that the plant had, in some manner, through a pri-
mary cell communication, perceived the threat to its safety. Since that
historic Groundhog's Day, Cleve has carefully conducted hundreds of
observations, as he calls them, in an intense and concerted effort to
find more evidence of primary cell perception in, not only plant life,
but fruits and vegetables, fresh eggs, mold cultures, yogurt, human
blood cells, tissue samples and even spermatozoa.
Backster has demonstrated that house plants register visible ap-
prehension when a dog passes by (perhapsat some time having been
used as a fire hydrant by a careless canine ?? ) — and also receive
signals from the dying cells in the drying blood of an accidentally cut
finger. In fact, of equally vital significance regarding proof of the Syn-
chronicity and Oneness of the Universe, they respond to distress sig-
nals issued in response to life threats against the cells of any member of
the living community. Cleve has further discovered that the plants are
able to receive signals from human thought communication over con-
siderable distances. They have registered "pleasure" over Cleve's in-
tent to return and water them when he was fifteen miles away at the
time the thought image projected in his mind.
Images and feelings experienced individually by the plants and
received by them from others don't consist of spoken words, of
course. Naturally, they haven't taken a Berlitz language course, and
don't comprehend words that say "one of your leaves is about to be
burned" or "hang in there, I know you're thirsty, but water is on the
way . . P.S. I love you" — but when such actions are imaged in the

-- 433 of 676 --

370 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS .
mind by the one speaking the words, the translation into threat, com-
fort or love is swift and direct.
The reason Backster calls the phenomenon "primary" is that this
perception applies to all the cells he has monitored, without regard to
their individual assigned biological functions. He's discovered similar
responses in the amoeba, the paramecium and all the other single-cell
organisms he's tested. He's tried unsuccessfully to block the signals
being exchanged by using a Faraday screen, screen cages and lead-
lined containers. Still, the communication continues to flow without
interruption — just as similar attempts to "block" the invisible com-
munication between, humans in esp experiments fail to have the-
slightest effect on the these "astral wave lengths." The conclusion
reached by Cleve, with Spock-like understatement, is that "staggering
as it may be to contemplate, there seems to be a life force signal con-
necting all of creation."
What is staggering today is "ho-hum" stuff tomorrow. Humans
become inured to miracles so quickly. The once staggering discov-
eries of electricity, radio, telephones and television are about as excit-
ing to humans today as playing a game of tic-tac-toe. You don't see |
anyone falling to his knees in ecstatic wonder when answering the
phone, turning on the radio or switching on the TV and seeing the
image appear "like magic" on the screen. People become bored with
magic almost immediately after it manifests. But maybe that's what
drives the human Spirit onward and upward . . . looking for new
magic, questing for new miracles.
Some of Cleve 's discoveries are amusing, but nonetheless of se-
rious significance, such as the vegetable caper. Electrodes are at-
tached to three different kinds of fresh vegetables. Then "someone" j
(not Cleve, he's too sympathetic to his new friends) — so someone J
else chooses one of the three vegetables to be dropped into boiling
water, as restaurants do with those poor live lobsters. The one se- }
lected "faints" before it's even touched, the instant it's selected in the
mind of the chooser — that is, it registers on the graph paper a sudden

-- 434 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN MELODIES * 371
upward sweep, followed abruptly by a straight line indicating "uncon-
sciousness." The other veggies continue their chart squiggles uninter-
rupted — until the unfortunate veggie is "boiled": then they respond
with sympathetic agitation. Eggs also "faint" when it's been mentally
decided to pick them up and break them — and they also register a
"nervous" response when another egg is actually broken nearby.
This is certainly a comforting discovery to me, since I hate to put
carrots in a juicer, slice a tomato, and so forth. Now I know they'll go
into a son of anesthetic coma as soon as they "realize" what's going to
happen, and won't "feel" anything. Cleve believes one should notify
the food in advance that it's about to become part of the food chain, so
it can put itself into a protective and painless faint or coma, which is
what the ancient Tibetan monks used to do; apologize aloud to the
food before they prepared it or ate it. I hope those poor lobsters have
time to faint before they're boiled alive.
While we're on the subject of "fainting," one afternoon Cleve was
visited in the New York laboratory of his Backster Research Founda-
tion, where he conducts all of his research, by a lady from a Canadian
university, who was involved with "plant work" and botany. She was
curious, and wanted to observe one of the plant demonstrations. Al-
though Cleve dislikes this sort of thing, because he never knows what
negativity and scepticism may be in the mind of the observer, capable
of short-circuiting the demonstration, he courteously obliged, with
some reservations.
At the appointed time the woman knocked on the door, Cleve
invited her in and led her directly to the plants, where she sat down to
watch. He then hooked up several of the plants to electrodes and
waited. And waited. And waited. None of the plants was making
even a "faint" tracing. The needles simply would not move on the
graph paper. Feeling a combination of embarrassment, annoyance
and puzzlement (he had never before seen a complete non-response
like this), Cleve tinkered with the electrodes for a while, then finally
gave up. The plants weren't "talking." They had cut off all communi-

-- 435 of 676 --

372 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
cation, period. And that was that. If they had "fairited," he speculated
to himself, it had to have happened before they were hooked up,
probably at the instant the woman had knocked on the door .... and
errant thoughts were floating through her mind. But . . . what kind of
errant thoughts ? We shall soon see.
After a few minutes of polite shop talk Cleve asked his lady vis-
itor exactly what type of work she did in her field at the university.
"Mostly," she replied cheerfully, "I gather plants, then I take them to
the lab, put them in the oven and bake them to get their dry weight."
Mystery solved. The frightened plants had picked up, through the
strange Morse Code of plant perception, that the "Wicked Witch of
the North" had entered the lab, and might be planning to bake them
into Brownies. So they "passed out" in a trembling combination of
fear and self-defense. Immediately after the woman left the lab a con-
cerned Cleve hurried back to his traumatized plants, and there they
were, once again making their normal "tranquility" pattern on the
graph paper, no longer taking a botanical Fifth Amendment ! Natu-
rally, this is amusing, but it's also of serious importance. Plants can,
indeed, absorb all manner of things in the emotional aura of humans
who approach them.
As mentioned in the Preface, and also earlier in this chapter, the
word -SIMULTANEOUS contains the words NO TIME ... and the en-
ergy force of communication behind cell perception obviously travels
faster than the speed of light, since the plant responses are invariably
"simultaneous" with the thought in the mind of the human or the
trauma suffered by any living thing.
Backster has conducted so many hundreds of tests, demonstra-
tions and observations, each one more exciting than the last, it's not
possible to include a detailed description of all of them in this chap-
ter. But here are a few more, explained briefly.
An unfertilized egg can respond with pulsations that coincide
with the heartbeat oja chick embryo, regardless of the fact that the egg is

-- 436 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN MELODIES * 373
unfertilized and that (as a double check of this) even under micro-
scopic examination, the content of the egg shows no evidence of the
beginnings of a physically evident cell division to account for the
pulsations. More evidence that the male impregnation does not rule
life, but that life itself is ruled by the feminine principle or essence,
which- possesses the subtle seed of future life, even before the male
principle enters the picture. Also more evidence that material objects,
things or people exist as an impression in the ethers before mate-
rialization into physical matter occurs through the use of higher ener-
gies. A rooster mating with a hen is only one of those energies ... but
the future event is already present in the feminine aura.
In his original published experiment, Cleve set up. an automated
device in a separate room near his laboratory that dumps cups of tiny
brine shrimp into boiling water at random intervals. The plants at-
tached to electrodes in his lab react with intense agitation on the graph
paper at the very instant the tiny shrimp hit the boiling water.
Before giving you a final example of Backster's monitored obser-
vations, I'd like you to image his San Diego laboratory. It's full of
creatures, from fish to electric eels, plants everywhere, television mon-
itoring equipment, microscopes and glass aquariums, with a stuffed
ET, the well-known extraterrestrial, overlooking the operations — a
gift from me on a particular Groundhog's Day. One must tread care-
fully when walking around the lab to examine all the plant and other
alchemy taking place there, because if one is not cautious, one might
step on the large tortoise who crawls around lazily wherever and
whenever it suits his fancy . . . sometimes playing peek-a-boo from his
shell with his companion and playmate, Sam, Cleve 's super-intelli-
gent, rather arrogant Siamese cat. Every time I go there, those Lewis
Carroll lines pop into my mind: "Would you walk a little faster ? said
the whiting to the snail. There's a porpoise right behind me, and he's
treading on my tail" . . . changing porpoise to tortoise, since Sam is
continually teasing that poor creature with his tail, in various, in-
ventive ways . . . and one of these days, tortoise is going to, perhaps
not tread on it, but yank it into his shell. Meow /

-- 437 of 676 --

374 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
Here's another Backster experiment, one of which Cleve isn't
fond, and doesn't like to watch, but of great significance to the
Oneness of the Universe.
Police officers and students from several states have observed this
one: Six of the officers draw lots to determine who will be the "killer."
The officer thus randomly selected then uproots one. of two plants
which have been "empathizing" next to one another for several weeks
or months in the lab. The "killer" rips the leaves of the uprooted plant
to shreds, and in other ways violently murders the poor green victim.
A few hours later, five of the officers enter the room, one at a time,
where the "witness plant" sits, attached to an electrode. The plant
continues to trace its. normal, individual pattern on the chart, showing
no response. But when the officer who murdered the plant's- friend
enters the room the witness plant immediately reacts with a strong
"agitation" response.
A police officer observing one of these demonstrations in the
Backster lab scratched his head when it was over, and murmured,
"Holy Moses ! Do you suppose that someday in the near future a man
can be found guilty of murder in a court of law because of the testi-
mony of a petunia ?" I'm afraid so, officer. This is the Aquarian Age.
The witness plant would give the same response to a human being
murdered before its "eyes," but naturally Cleve has no desire to con-
duct a test to prove it. However, homicide detectives, while they're
gathering fingerprints from the scene of a crime, might consider glanc-
ing around to see if there are any plants in the room, then taking it or
them to Backster's lab to be tested in the presence of any suspects, in a
sort of "plant lineup." The results, although presently of no legal sta-
tus, would at the very least be . . . interesting. The same thing would
occur with a loved house plant witnessing child abuse or wife abuse.
The possibilities are endless.
These are only a few examples of the observations of Backster's
research, which range from shrimp and eggs to human blood cells and
spermatozoa cells, all of which "recognize" their donors. If you'd like

-- 438 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN MELODIES * 375
to know more about Cleve's work, it has been partially described in
the fascinating book The Secret Life of Plants by Peter Tompkins and
Christopher Bird, but will be more fully documented in depth, involv-
ing the interesting human sidelights, as well as the technical aspects of
the research, in a book currently projected for publication in the near
future.
Meanwhile, if you have a technician's mind and enjoy assimilat-
ing those long words of scientific terminology, you may obtain a copy
of "Biocommunications Capability: Human Donors and In Vitro Leu-
kocytes," material written by Backster and Stephen White, and pre-
sented by Cleve during several lectures from the Backster Research
Foundation, Inc. — 861 Sixth Avenue — San Diego, California,
92101 — USA.
Action at a distance has been in the past attributed to gravita-
tional forces originating with the Luminaries and the planets, and has
been so ascribed correctly. However, Backster's primary cell percep-
tion research reveals that it is also a feature of a non-material field in
which the gravitational field is localized by plant growth. The signifi-
cance of the Backster Foundation research, which, despite its great
strides, is in its infant stages, with thrilling worlds of. discovery still
ahead, is that it has established as a fact that plants are sentient, that
they possess what can only be called "feelings."
Plants are creatures without nerves, and are therefore dependent
on the auxins they manufacture to achieve growth, phototrqpism and
wilting and such. Yet they have been shown by Cleve's testing to
exhibit definite and sympathetic responses to the beneficent or malev-
olent events occurring to living cells, animals, humans and other
plants in their vicinity — and at a distance.
Because plants lack "sense" organs, their responses to feelings
cannot be defined as "sensory impressions." They must be defined as
evidence of a life force field as yet unsuspected and unrecognized by
orthodox scientists, but known for eons to metaphysicians. What,

-- 439 of 676 --

376 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
exactly, is this life force ? A chord of music, still unheard ... a spec-
trum of color, still invisible . . . awaiting human discovery, but operat-
ing in perfect harmony until such discovery is made by Earthlings of
good will.
Yale plant physiologist Dr. Arthur Galston has for years been an
outspoken critic, not only ofXleve Backster's primary cell perception
discoveries, but of the oneness of the Universe in all of its various
facets, and has been quoted as calling these harmonies of communica-
tion "pernicious nonsense." The colorful, if somewhat vitriolic two
word phrase somehow had the ring of a non sequitur to my inner ear
when I first came across it. So I decided to turn to good old elf-father
Webster again.
pernicious: causing great injury, destruction and ruin; deadly
and fatal.
nonsense: absurd; a triviality possessing no relative importance
or value.
— Webster, Noah
Dr. Galston, sir, with all due respect, how can something trivial,
of no importance or value, kill, cause great injury, destruction and
ruin, not to mention be deadly and fatal ? Poor man, we shouldn't be
too harsh with him just because he hasn't mastered the proper use of
the language. We all make mistakes. His excuse may be that he's just
not well read. He's been. too busy tinkering around with the organs of
plants, and flying to conventions and seminars to squirt his sour
grapes ofi the miraculous research of the Aquarian Age to take the
time to browse through libraries of scientific journals with enough
care.
If the good doctor had read my first book, Sun Signs (which is
highly improbable), he would have learned about a number of fasci-
nating discoveries that would have prepared him for the kind of
revelations of Backster's research — such as the following.
For example, since Dr. Galston frequently ridicules astrology, in

-- 440 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN MELODIES * 377
1953 Dr. Frank A. Brown, Jr., of Northwestern University, made a
startling discovery while he was experimenting with the "physiology"
of some oysters Orthodox science had always assumed (through Dr.
Galston's "careful" methodology) that oysters open and close with the
cycle of the tides of their birthplace. But when Dr. Brown's oysters
were taken from the waters of Long Island Sound and placed in a tank
of water in his Evanston, Illinois, laboratory, a strange pattern
emerged.
Their new home was kept at an even temperature, and the room
was illuminated with a steady, dim light. For two weeks, the dis-
placed oysters opened and closed their shells to the same rhythm as
the tides of Long Island Sound, one thousand miles away. Then they
suddenly snapped shut, and remained that way for several hours.
just as Dr. Brown and his research team were about to consider
the case of the homesick oysters closed, an odd thing happened to
Cleve Backster on that Groundhog's Day of 1966. The shells un-
expectedly opened wide again, to Dr. Brown's shocked amazement
and surprise (just like Backster's). Exactly four hours after the high
tide at Long Island Sound — at the precise moment when there would
have been a high tide at Evanston, Illinois, if it were on the sea coast — a
new cycle began.
The oysters were adapting their rhythm to the new geographical
latitude and longitude. By what force ? By the magnetic force of the
Moon, of course. Dr. Brown finally had to conclude that "the oysters'
energy cycles are ruled by the mysterious lunar signal that controls the
tides."
Further, the late Harold Saxton Burr, emeritus Professor of Anat-
omy at Yale's Medical School, Dr. Galston's own alma mater, stated
that "a complex magnetic field not only establishes the patterns of the
human brain at birth [astrology, Dr. Galston) — but continues to
regulate and control it through life." Dr. Burr stated that "the human
central nervous system is a superb receptor of electromagnetic ener-
gies, the finest in Nature."

-- 441 of 676 --

378 * • LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
We may walk to a fancier step, but we hear the same drummer as
the oysters . . . and the plants. Skipping from astrology to plants (a
very short distance), your Dr. Burr not only recognized that the 42
billion cells in our brains form a myriad of possible circuits through
which electricity can channel, he also, among his many research proj-
ects undertaken with an open mind and a most active Third Eye, made
a ten-year continuous chart recording of the electrical potential ac-
tivity exhibited by a tree, Dr. Galston — with amazing results, which
were neither pernicious nor nonsense.
Then, too, there was the Indian scientist, Sir Jagadis Chandra
Bose, who adhered meticulously to Galston s sacred scientific meth-
odology, and used extremely sophisticated instrumentation in his ex-
periments with plant life. He did everything strictly .by Galstons rule
book, and his results were essentially the same as Backsters, causing
Sir Bose to state with absolute certainty that "plants definitely do expe-
rience an equivalent of emotions" — the pernicious little rascals.
******

-- 442 of 676 --

North - South
Power Points

-- 443 of 676 --

380 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
******
One of the facets of universal synchronicity, a striking evidenc
of the harmony of the Universe, is the North-South mystery. I initial]
learned about it on a spring morning on West Fifty-Seventh Stree
when I met my first Adept in 1963, who was at the time disguised as i
meek and mild employee of the New York Times. (Remember,
Chapter 3 I told you that all Gurus have a "cover" that helps to kee
private their true identity.) I tried the experiments he suggested, ar
was never disappointed.
After several months of pondering the awe of it, I located a bo
published in India at the turn of the century that explained the basis c
the North-South mystery — and a couple of years later, Joe Gc
avage published his marvelous book, Astrology, the Space Age Scienc
and I was pleased to note that he, too, was aware of this magic
harmony of polarity.
Although what I was first taught about the North-South myste
was later supported by the Hatha Yoga book published in India, Goo
avage s occult classic and a number of other metaphysical tomes I>
since come across, I'll always remember best the excitement 1 felt i
that enchanted morning when my beloved "first Guru" revealed hisii
secrets to me.
Most of you, I imagine, already know that water runs down thejil
drain in a clockwise direction in the Northern Hemisphere — and in am
counter-clockwise direction in the Southern Hemisphere. Converselmi
hurricanes and tornados in the Northern Hemisphere swirl in a coun»l
ter-clockwise motion, while in the Southern Hemisphere, they swirl in j j
a clockwise motion — exactly the opposite of the Northern-Southemr
Hemisphere directions water takes when flowing down the drain.
Astrologers chart the course of the planets correctly in a counter-in
clockwise direction on the astrological wheel or circle, while they reolft

-- 444 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN MELODIES * 381
ognize (as do astronomers) that the "Ages" (Age of Pisces, Age of
Aquarius and so forth) move in a clockwise direction. What did
someone write in the Christian Bible about "wheels within wheels" ?
This is all pan of the harmony of a functioning Universe, and
nothing can interrupt it or interfere with it — except one thing, as
well soon learn. How does this inflexible law affect mundane events
on Earth, and in what way does it affect you, as an individual ? Mag-
netically. And more importantly than any other than a few Initiates
suspect.
Universal Law states that, in the Northern Hemisphere, the North
always has been and always shall be dominant over the South. When
an opposition or a conflict occurs between them, the North will al-
ways win — or there will be a draw or a tie, so that no one wins. But in
any event, the South cannot dominate or be victorious qver the North.
In the Southern Hemisphere, the law is polarized — that is, op-
posite in its effect. In the Southern Hemisphere, the South always has
and always shall be dominant over the North. When an opposition or
a conflict occurs between them, the South will always win — or there
will be a draw or a tie, so that no one wins. But in any event, the North
cannot dominate or be victorious over the South — in the Southern
Hemisphere.
In the final analysis, however, the .North is superior, in a univer-
sal sense, because when an opposition or conflict occurs between the
Northern Hemisphere and the Southern Hemisphere, the North will carry
the dominant vibration and be victorious — or the outcome will be "a
draw" and neither Hemisphere will win.
As evidence of the latter portion of this North-South polarity law,
no civilization has ever originated in the Southern Hemisphere; they
have all originated in the Northern Hemisphere. Every modern na-
tion existing today south of the equator was originally founded by
people from the Northern Hemisphere. This dominance of the North
(in the Northern Hemisphere) and the South (in the Southern Hemi-

-- 445 of 676 --

382 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
sphere) — and the final dominance of the North over the Soi
between the two Hemispheres — is manifested in every macroscopic
and microscopic way among cities, states, nations and individual hu-
mans, in relation to opposition or conflict — from wars to personal
arguments and debates.
Lets examine more evidence of this inflexible. Universal Law of
harmony. The Civil War. America's War Between the States. Al-
though there may be a few die-hard rebels who secretly still sing "Save
Your Confederate Money, Boys, the South Will Rise Again" (written by
my friend, "Hank" Fort, a southern woman) — it can't happen. The
South lost, the North won, and the outcome was decided before the
war even broke out.
The religious or occult "Gurus" of the Oriental countries are well
aware of this polarity law. Our present-day American leaders' igno-
rance of the Law is why, when there was no genuine difference be
tween the politics of north and south Korea or Viet Nam, the United
States of America was maneuvered and manipulated into fighting on
the side of South Korea and South Viet Nam — and thus the "mightiest \
nation in the world" was humiliated by being unable to be victorious j
over North Korea or North Viet Nam — our defeat decided, as with \
the fate of the rebels in the Civil War, before the conflict ever arose. If (
our current political leaders would open their Third Eyes and become i
initiated to esoteric truth, as were our founding fathers, and stop ]
ridiculing everything metaphysical as "pernicious nonsense," like our
soon-to-be-converted Dr. Arthur Galston, these defeats need not oc-
cur. Better yet, conflict would cease, replaced by Peace, should they \
become fully illuminated.
As Goodavage has pointed out, spiritual enlightenment moves j
eastward, and civilization moves westward on the terrestrial sphere.
As for dominance, if the borders of two nations occupy the same gen-
eral latitudes, then the polarity law of whichever hemisphere applies
to the capital city of the nations or countries thus geographically ,
located.

-- 446 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN MELODIES * 383
In the Northern Hemisphere, China maintains dominance over
India, and unsuccessfully continues her rivalry with Russia, Peking
being north of New Delhi, India — and south of Moscow; likewise
south of Washington, D.C., as India is south of Peking, Moscow and
Washington. However, since Moscow and Peking are both north of
Washington, D.C., the United States will never achieve dominance
(either political or spiritual) over China and Russia, until our capital is
moved to Alaska, north of the capitals of these two countries.
France and Germany s great armies were strong and favored
when they invaded Russia, and their defeat was attributed to adverse
weather conditions. Rather, they were defeated by the North-South
Universal Law of polarity, Russia being north of both nations. As for
the mighty Russia, with millions of men to fight the few defenders of
tiny Finland, the Soviet Union was unable to claim a victory over this
small country north of her. The "great" Russian army could not defeat
the Finns.
Meditate on these north-south polarities, and form your own
conclusions. Nicaragua is south of Israel in the Northern Hemisphere,'
also south of the United States. However, the Contras are "all over the
place," so the resolution of the conflict within this country is a rare,
Free Will choice, assuming that other countries to the north mind
their own business.
Still in the Northern Hemisphere, it should be important to
world leaders that Tehran, the capital of Iran, is north of Baghdad, the
capital of Iraq, Poor Cuba is south of all major powers in the North-
ern Hemisphere, and must, of necessity, align with either the United
States or Russia. Fidel Castro tried the former alliance, with the result
that our CIA, with their Organized Crime partners, tried to murder
him in various ways, on several occasions. Even his enemies should
be able to see the necessity and the logic in his then turning to the
latter: **
Castro possesses his fair share of faults and flaws (don't we all ?

-- 447 of 676 --

384 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
Including some of our Presidents) — but on his last visit to the US
he insisted on being taken to the Lincoln Memorial in Washington
before being driven to his hotel, remaining there for nearly an hour,
openly weeping. I can't fault the man for admiring and respecting
Lincoln. Was it a publicity stunt ? Perhaps. I have no way of know-
ing. Castro is certainly no "Honest Abe," but neither is he the devil
incarnate, and his office walls are covered with photographs of Abra-
ham Lincoln —not past Cuban leaders.
Speaking of Lincoln and publicity stunts, the annual Lincoln Day
dinner in Lincoln's hometown of Springfield, Illinois, might very well
fit that description. In reality, it's nothing more than a political plat-
form for the media's sniffing out potential Presidential candidates. I
was present at the. 1986 Lincoln Day dinner. There were five hundred
guests listening to the costumed Civil War band playing "Glory Al-
leluja" and applauding the passionate speeches about Lincoln's freeing
of the slaves. Yet, in that huge hall, there were only two black faces
visible* in an ocean of white faces, seated up front near the stage, where
the TV cameras could pan them. Only two.
But what can one expect from such "guardians and protectors" of
the image of Abraham Lincoln as the city fathers and museum curators
of Springfield, who have recently sanctioned the installation of neon
lighting in Lincoln's home on Eighth Street ? When I visited there,,
anticipating the experience of a trembling nostalgia, I wasn't sure
whether I was in Abe and Mary's home or the Red Apple Supermarket.
If world leaders were more metaphysically oriented, they would
find it meaningful and prophetic that the nation of Israel is north of
Saudi Arabia — and that Tel Aviv is likewise north of Cairo, Egypt. Yet
Tel Aviv is south of Beirut, capital of Lebanon — while Beirut is north
of Cairo, Egypt. With these complex and intertwined examples of the
North-South Universal Law of polarity, it's no wonder the fighting in
the Middle East seemsrto be fated to go on forever .... until all of
these nations realize that it's a no-win situation, and build a bridge of

-- 448 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN MELODIES * 385
peace between one another, in a spirit of compromise and respect for
the religious faiths of each.
In the Southern Hemisphere, under the reverse or opposite
North-South polarity law (with the South superior or possessing dom-
inance over the North), consider these geographical possibilities:
while south of all Northern Hemisphere major powers, which it can
therefore never defeat, South Africa is also North of New Zealand, and
parts of Australia and Argentina, which, under the reverse Southern
Hemisphere law of polarity, makes these countries also dominant over
South Africa. Although the European nation of South Africa will
never be conquered by any other African nation, it doesn't have a
chance of winning a conflict with the major powers in the Northern
Hemisphere, surely meaningful relative to current Northern Hemi-
sphere world disapproval of Apartheid.
The United States has traditionally dominated Mexico, while
Mexico in turn dominates its neighbors to the south, except those in
the Southern Hemisphere, where the situation is reversed.
And what about Mexico's War of Independence with Spain, in
which Mexico won its independence ? A Universal Law is never one-
dimensional — there are several levels of intricate interpretation of
"dominance" on rare occasions. Regarding this one — true, Spain is
north of Mexico in the Northern Hemisphere, and should have been
victorious, you might think. You would be mistaken.
First of all, wars of independence, as conflicts go, have a shade of
different meaning. In the instance of this one, even though Spain was
north of Mexico in the Northern Hemisphere, and therefore possessed
(and still possesses) dominance over the country of Mexico, south of
it - why was Mexico able to win independence ? The answer is that,
although Mexico won her independence in this type of conflict, differ-
ent from the conflict of other wars, where two separate nations (or
people) are fighting — Mexico did not escape the influence of Spain.

-- 449 of 676 --

386 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
Before the conflict of independence, Mexico was composed of several j
tribes of Mexican Indians, and an equal number of Mexican Indian
dialects were spoken there. Since winning independence, Mexico has
remained under the influence of Spain, in both a cultural and a politi-
cal sense. And what language is spoken in Mexico today ? The Ian-
guage of Spain — Spanish. Now that Mexico is a separate country,
should the kind of conflict of war between two separate nations ever
break out, Spain would not fail to win — or there would be a draw or
a tie, where neither nation would win. The North-South rule is only
emphasized by this example.
Canada may well be the country of the future in the Northern
Hemisphere. It hasn't yet fully developed its potential. Located north
of the United States in the Northern Hemisphere, Canada has always
come out ahead in various dealings with the United States, even
though the latter is a more powerful and industrially more developed
nation.
No, I haven't forgotten the midnight ride of Paul Revere, King
George of England and that other George who froze his toes crossing
the Delaware. Later.
How does the polarity law affect the average man and woman ?
Strongly. So strongly that 1, in fact, hesitated to expose this secret in
print, for fear my readers would pick up on it, solve its riddle and <
carry through on the knowledge in all sorts of effective but bizarre
ways. Does the law work, for instance, in courts of law ? Yes, 1
does. And so 1 had images of the attorneys for the Prosecution an4 <
Defense fighting over which of their legal teams got to sit in the norfo
of the courtroom (guaranteeing either victory over the other side — or
a tie or draw (a mis-trial ?) — and which of their legal teams had to be
seated in the south of the courtroom, condemning them to losing theif t
cases. Then there are the various nuances of whether the jury is
seated to the north of the accused — or to the south of him, perhaps
causing the defense attorneys to insist on moving the juror bench to
the other side of the room. And where is the Judge himself seated, in

-- 450 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN MELODIES * 387
relation to the person on trial ? Naturally, in this hemisphere, the
prosecution would prefer the Judge to sit north of the accused — but
if wishes were horses, beggars would ride, and the Judge will sit wher-
ever he sits, period. Can you just imagine a Judge's response if he or,
she were to be requested by the Prosecution or Defense to move his
bench to the other side of the courtroom ? Horrors ! A scene straight
out of Gilbert and Sullivan.
The part of the foregoing related to the north-south seating posi-
tion in the courtroom of the Prosecution and Defense is no joke, and
would exercise an absolute influence over the outcome of a trial. But 1
finally stopped worrying about causing such confusion by realizing
that because so few attorneys are even near the state of mind to open
their Third Eyes, most lawyers being light years away from illumina-
tion, there wouldn't be enough of a problem created to be concerned
about.
The same rule applies to corporate Boards of Directors. They
don't realize the importance of their seating position. And Congress.
The House of Representatives. Private and personal meetings between
our American Presidents and the Heads of other World Powers. If
only they comprehended how vital the north-south seating position is
in whichever hemisphere peace conferences take place — it would
make a whole universe of difference to the outcome.
Further, our American Presidents might consider that, of all the
world leaders with whom they meet, those from China and Russia
might well have selected their seating positions beforehand during
past conferences. China, because the Orientals are well aware of the
polarity law, whether they wish to acknowledge it openly or not —
and Russia, because the Soviet Union has long been conducting exten-
sive research into metaphysical and esoteric matters, and is consider-
ably ahead of the United States in such experimentation, because its
leaders realize that technology can be made impotent by a Higher Law
put into practice. In conclusion, our Presidents should be wary of
where they sit down, when it comes to meetings important to world

-- 451 of 676 --

388 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
peace and world survival. The First Lady might want to tuck a com-
pass in the President's overnight bag when he next flies to one of those
conferences. It's far more important than a few clean shirts and socks.
The law works with equal strength in your own living room, an
office or a friend's house — any place at all. Believe me, I've tried it
hundreds of times, with both strangers and those very close to me.
When I've had either a mild or serious difference of opinion with any
of them, I try to sit North of him — or her — and when I've been able
to accomplish this, I've always won the dispute, or else it's left at a
draw, and the other person eventually comes around to my point of
view. However, those times when I've been unable to manipulate my
position, and have been forced to debate from a position south of the
person who is giving me "a hard time" over some matter, I always lose
— or at least, I never win. Once again I'll emphasize that, although
this may sound amusing, it's nevertheless very serious and very real.
I can imagine, when this book is published, all the married cou-
ples fighting for the north chair or couch position — not to mention
which one sleeps on the north or south side of the bed at night, rela-
tive to the position of the spouse or lover. I may seem to be discussing
all this in a humorous way, but it's as serious as anything can be, and
don't forget that. If you take all this as only humor, you'll regret it!
Now let's analyze the Revolutionary War with England, our
"mother country." Both the United States and England are, of course,
in the Northern Hemisphere. London is north of, not only our cap-
ital, Washington, D.C., but also Boston, Philadelphia and Plymouth
Rock. So what happened here ? We won our independence from
England,,and we also won the infamous War of 1812 with Great Brit-
ain. Are we immune to this powerful and inflexible Universal Law of
North-South dominance ? Yes, we are. Does that surprise you ?
To begin with, the real America was owned by our American
Indian brothers and sisters. Following the North-South polarity law,
they unfortunately but naturally lost the country to a handful of En-

-- 452 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN MELODIES * 389
glish people and a few Frenchmen who came over here and literally
stole America from its rightful owners, accomplished through several
brutal and violent wars with the red men — because London is north
of America. The outcome could have been no different. In this case
— of the American Indians losing their proud country to the English
— the law was humming harmoniously, even though it may have
sounded like sour notes and discordant chords to the unfortunate
Indians.
Present-day descendants of those brave Indians may wonder why
the shameful way they were robbed of their country was permitted by
any kind of universal law or harmony, if the word "harmony" is syn-
onymous with the word "peace." It's understandable that they should
question the justice of such a law.
Could it be that the Higher Selves of both the American Indians
and the Higher Selves of those English-born soldiers who fought them
had a larger law in mind — that these Higher Selves of both sides
knew the future of America, and knew that it was in the hands of a few
Adepts and Avatars with the most glorious dream since the original
dream in Eden ?
America s future was certainly in the hands of such as these.
George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Benjamin Franklin, John
Adams and other framers of our Constitution were (are you listening,
Carl Sagan and Arthur Galstori ?) — astrologers. They were Rostcru-
cians and Masons of high degree — all of them, including Lafayette.
They chose the birthday of the United States of America by astrology,
and were guided by profound occult mysteries in the designing of her
Great Seal.
The shimmering dream of these founding fathers of America,
these framers of the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence
.... was not a fragile one. Their dream possessed unlimited and
infinite strength — the great power to shatter for the first time the
inflexible North-South Universal Law, a permission given by our

-- 453 of 676 --

390 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS .
Creators once an eon or so, for the greater goal of Love and Peace on
Earth. Did not Moses "break the law" (of physics) by parting the Red
Sea?
No other nation, no other country since the very Beginning of
Time on this Earth has possessed the power to so completely break the
Universal Law of North-South polarity. Only America, in her separa-
tion from England and her subsequent war with Britain, fought in
1812 — winning — victorious both times, regardless of being geo-
graphically located irl the Northern Hemisphere's "losers position,"
south of the conflict.
America possessed such power because no other nation, no other
country since the Beginning of Time on this Earth has been founded
on such principles as the United States of America.
Abraham Lincoln, America's visionary and ultrasensitive leader,
believed by metaphysicians to have been one of the fourteen soul
pieces of Osiris, knew this esoteric secret. Lincoln's voice trembled"
when he spoke, in Gettysburg, those ringing words: "Fourscore and
seven years ago our fathers brought forth on this continent a new
nation, conceived in liberty and dedicated to the proposition that all
men are created equal. Now we are engaged in a great civil war, testing
whether that nation or any nation so conceived and so dedicated can long
endure."
Yes. Lincoln knew the cosmic importance of not allowing this
nation "of the people, by the people, for the people" to perish from the
Earth.
Our Constitution, with its guarantee of freedom of speech and
freedom of religion, is unlike any Constitution of any other nation
ever founded on the Earth. Even more importantly, it's the only com-
pletely un-ethnic country in the world.
There's no such thing as an American, in the way that there are
Frenchmen, Italians, Germans, Russians, Japanese and so on. Other

-- 454 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN MELODIES * 391
countries, other nations accept immigrants, but immigrants are
America. There are no other kinds of Americans.
Americans are Indians (both kinds, from India and our red
brothers and sisters). Americans are French, Irish, Scottish, Welsh,
Russian, English, Italian, German, Cuban, Mexican, Spanish, Chinese,
Japanese, Swiss, Australian, Finnish, Polish, Yugoslavian, Eskimo . . .
and every other ethnic group on the Earth.
Never before has there been a country founded on the dream of
being home to every man and woman, every single Earthling, regardless
of nationality, race, faith, creed or color. The dream of our founding
fethers was to establish a nation to test the great ideal of bro'therhood
and sisterhood of all races, working together as one. Our Creators
smiled upon this courageous dream of all-embracing good will and
individual freedom, and protected it from subjugation to the universal
Law of North-South polarity.
The United States is still being divinely protected because of this
original dream. Never mind the Teapot Dome scandal, Watergate and
Irangate. So-called saints and saints of nations are continually being
soul-tested. We are still the only country in the entire world where
both clear-thinking men and women and misguided thinkers can
speak their minds and say whatever they wish — either for or against
our government — as can the media spokesmen and spokeswomen.
America will continue to be divinely protected, as long as our First
Amendment, guaranteeing Freedom of Speech remains intact. To keep it
so is worth putting up with all manner of printed and spoken ugliness
to protect that First Amendment. And it's worth remembering Volt-
aire's ringing declaration, U
I may disapprove of what you say but I will
defend to the death your right to say it."

-- 455 of 676 --



-- 456 of 676 --

Playing Musical Eagles

-- 457 of 676 --

394 * LINDA GOODMAN'S' ST/PR SIGNS
* * * • * *
As we've learned from the singular exception to the North-South
law, America is a mystical nation, which was the intention of our
founding fathers, the colonial Freemasons, Rosicrucians and astrolo-
gers, who perceived the harmonies of the Universe around them, and
based their dream for America on esoteric codes, patterned on the
harmony of astrology and numerology.
The birth chart of the United States was carefully chosen to. give
this newborn nation the Cancerian Sun Sign of its chosen birth date of
July 4, 1776, for the purpose of instilling the cultural and historic
traditions inherent in the Moon-ruled sign of Cancer. The birth date
chosen by these "wise men" was one with the ruler of its Cancer Sun
Sign, the Moon, in the astrological sign of Aquarius, blessing America
with Aquarian ideals of tolerance, brotherhood and sisterhood, a
strain of genius and the progressive, intuitive qualities of Aquarius.
The Moon rules the emotions. In this way did our forefathers plan
that the emotions of America's people would mature in time to match
the powerful vibrations of the approaching Aquarian Age they knew,
as astrologers, would be the next Age on Earth — so that America
might lead the world in Truth and Light during the new Golden Age.
They selected a birth chart having that Aquarian Moon harmo-
niously training the nations Ascendent — Gemini. The Gemini As-
cendent (or rising sign) was astrologically selected to give America
versatility, intelligence, adaptability to change and eloquence of
speech. However, because a country possesses the same Free Will as
individuals, we have unfortunately chosen in the past to use our
Gemini Ascendent in its negative vibration of deception, with typical
Gemini, Mercury-ruled glibness, talking "out of two sides of our
mouth at once," by preaching equality, while denying first women and
then our black citizens the right to vote.
The sign of Aquarius on the ninth house of religion graced Amer-
ica with a Uranus-seeded tolerance toward the many different faiths of

-- 458 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN MELODIES * 395
her people. The sign of Pisces ruling America's tenth house has
caused us to be led by "fathers" or Presidents who have been alter-
nately compassionate, spiritual — and deceptive. We've had a couple
of the latter type recently. Yet we've also had our spiritual Presidents.
Since our first, George Washington, was a Piscean, this synchronized
with our country's nativity in the beginning. "Cancer Cares" is a com-
mon and ancient astrological adage, referring to the "Jewish mother"
essence of the sign Cancer. Cancerian America started the "Care Pack-
ages," and we continue to symbolically feed the world chicken soup.
Our money system reflects our Cancerian love for financial security,
but that Gemini Ascendent and Aquarian Moon caused America to go
into debt. Like any Cancerian, America's image to the world is
moody, changing from depression to humor . . . always hinting at the
keeping of secrets . . . then the Gemini Ascendent starts talking . . .
and it all hangs out.
The mystical philosophers who founded America, those illumi-
nated forefathers of our country also designed the Great Seal of the
United States on the same metaphysical principles, and it hides certain
mysteries of America's spiritual heritage. Its designers believed that,
by the time of the" Aquarian Age, all Americans would have become
evolved to the point of comprehending its secrets and, indeed, we are
currently seeing an upsurge of matters mystical. (The Great Seal is
reproduced on the American one-dollar bill.)
There are several books available which tell of various facets of
the mystical meanings of our Great Seal, including the Goodavage
book — but not all of these works agree on every small detail. An-
other source for information is a reprint from the Spring 1952 issue of
a magazine called Egypt, available from the United States Treasury
Department. •
Have you ever wondered why the Great Seal of the United States
features an Egyptian Pyramid, topped by a mysterious Eye ? Before
you can understand this secret code, you should know that there are
three kinds of Karma. In a layered sense, each Earthling lives within

-- 459 of 676 --



-- 460 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN MELODIES * 397
these three karmic influences: (a) Individual, personal Karma, (b) Na-
tional Karma and (c) Ethnic or Racial Karma.
Translating the codes of the Great Seal, the Pyramid and the sym-
bolic Eye represent that America is living the Karma of ancient Atlan-
tis, buried on the floor of the Pacific Ocean, awaiting discovery. It was
Isis who, long after the murder of Osiris, passed on his principles of
ideal government to the founders of Atlantis. America is the reincar-
nated Atlantis, which itself was the reincarnated Egypt of many eons
ago, when it was ruled over by Isis and Osiris.
What has been called by some the "mystical eye" at the top of the
Pyramid on the reverse side of the Seal, represents the Eye of Horus,
usually drawn as Kf* ... but it was decided by our fore-
fathers, who designed it, that this rendition would be too occult for
the general, as yet unilluminated public, and so it was rendered as "an
ordinary eye," which only made it more of an enigma, since an ordi-
nary eye has no historical precedent with any genuine mystical
relevance.
Horus was the son of Isis and Osiris, whose tragic tale I will be
relating with other "twelfth night secrets" in a later work. According
to the "Elder Brothers" of wisdom presently on Earth, the High Priests
and High Priestesses of Atlantis, who failed to warn the people in time
to prevent the natural cataclysms that caused the Great Flood, have
reincarnated in the Aquarian Age, so that they might have a second
chance to warn the people — to teach them the precepts necessary to
avoid an encore of the Atlantis tragedy — the star sign codes of an-
cient wisdom holding the keys to illumination.
The Pyramid and Eye of Horus is on the reverse side of the Seal.
On the front side is the familiar American Eagle, adopted as a symbol
of America by an Act of Congress in June of 1782. The Eagle is an-
other echo or reflection of Horus, who is pictured in a number of
Egyptian hieroglyphics as having the head of a Falcon, belonging to
the Raptor or Eagle family.

-- 461 of 676 --

398 if LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
It is also the symbol of Scorpio, the higher essence of Scorpio — 1
the lower levels being the Grey Lizard and the stinging Scorpion.
(This entire triune of Scorpio is symbolized by the Serpent of Wisdom,
eating its own tail.) The Horus Scorpio Eagle further represents the
Egyptian Phoenix, the mystical bird with the power of rising from its
own ashes, the esoteric code for both reincarnation and immortality,
another reminder that America is living the Karma of Atlantis.
The name HORUS, when you re-verse two letters (writing a new
verse or poem), becomes HOURS, which is why Horus, in the secret
teachings, is the Master of Eternity, the ruler of the Eternal Now or
Higher Dimension of Time, this occult mystery sometimes written for
us in initialed code as '777/0/^^ capped by the Pyramid.
The numerological value of Horus is 23. Study its meaning on
page 259. Osiris is a 17 — and Isis is the single number 8, the double
serpent symbol of the snake eating its own tail, representing Eternity
and Immortality. The 17 of Osiris also reduces to the single number
8. As we learned in Chapter 5, the number 8 is the number of Saturn
— and reincarnation is ruled by Saturn and Pluto, the latter being the
ruling planet of Scorpio. The numbers of Isis and Osiris together
equal 16 ("fall from a high place"), which reduces to 7, the spiritual
number (Chapter 5).
The next planet to be discovered will eventually be called Vulcan,
the lame goddess of thunder, as Vulcan is a feminine planet, the true
ruler of Virgo. Following this, the planet Pan-Horus, true ruler of
Taurus, which will herald the Earths understanding of the Eternal
Now, placing all Earthlings in a Higher Dimension of Time, including
gravitation — and the control of it.
There are two schools of prognostication' regarding these two
planets or "wandering stars." The other school claims and predicts
that the discoveries will be made in reverse order, with Pan-Horus
discovered first, then Vulcan. Since neither sighting has occurred,
and being a strong advocate of Free Will choice- to be mistaken or

-- 462 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN MELODIES * 399
correct, I firmly cast my personal vote for Vulcan first, and then Pan-
Horus. Any Taureans want to wager with me ? I promise to be a
gracious loser — or a generous and humble winner.
The Eagle (representing America in the Great Seal) supports the
shield, this code intended to convey that our forefathers intended
America to be strong in defending herself, yet always ready to defend
and support less fortunate nations and peoples.
The E Pluribus Unum legend written across the ribbon in the Ea-
gle's beak .— Out of Many, One — does not refer only to the single
nation formed of thirteen colonies, as many people believe. The eso-
teric code of this phrase is that the original dream of America was that
those concepts upon which she was founded would eventually spread
to include all nations — and thus unify them into One.
The arrows of defense against attack clutched in the Eagle's left
talon have too often over the past decades been distorted to mean war
when war was not necessary, a prostitution of their original sym-
bolism; and they are also prophetic of the necessity of the Civil War to
hold the center together — a necessity successfully accomplished, but
also profoundly regretted by Lincoln.
It's most important to note that the American Eagle's head is
facing toward the Eagle's right, toward the right talon holding the
olive branch of Peace.
The shining cloud above the Eagle's head, emblazoned with thir-
teen stars representing the original thirteen States, was meant to sym-
bolize several things, but none so meaningful as its coded message of
being what our forefathers saw as "The Crown of Countless Ages," the
reincarnation of an eternal ideal, one possessing the power to break
the Universal Law of North-South polarity ... the same ideal (al-
though with even more layers of truth and love) held in the beginning
by the founders of the Lost Continent of Atlantis, before the Free Will
choice of that once fair land and its people led to its tragic inundation.
If you've carefully studied the sections concerning numerology in

-- 463 of 676 --

400 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
Chapter 5 you may be able to guess the reason for and the importance
of the repetition of the Compound Number 13 on both the front and
reverse sides of the Great Seal. Notice how many repeats there are of]
13.
There are thirteen stars in the circular glow of the life-giving Sun
above the Eagle's head. The total number of stripes on the Eagle's
shield is thirteen, representing, again, the original thirteen colonies.
The olive branch of Peace clutched in the Eagle's right talon contains
thirteen branches and thirteen berries. There are thirteen arrows
clutched in the Eagles left talon — and thirteen letters in the legend E
Pluribus Unum. All of these repetitions of the number 13 are seen on
the front side of the seal.
On the reverse side there are thirteen layers of stone in the un-
finished Pyramid. Can you guess why it was left unfinished in this
image designed by the mystics who founded America ? The legend
Annuit Coeptis contains thirteen letters. The correct interpretation of
these two words is The Divine Hath Smiled Upon Our Undertaking.
The printed words across the ribbon banner beneath the Pyra-
mid, Novus Ordo Seclorum, mean The New Order of the Ages. Leaving
the number 13 for just a moment, the numerological value of Novo
Ordo Seclorum is 17 (you may read its meaning on page 255) — the
same Compound Number possessed by Osiris, whose ideals and
teaching of perfect government comprise, in reality, what our found-
ers meant by The New Order of the Ages.
Back to the number 13. First, read the meaning of this myste-
rious number on page 251. Next, read in that same Chapter 5 the
section concerning the Compound Number 12, which also explains
further the number 13, beginning on page 251.
Another layered meaning of the intent to repeat thirteen so often
in our Great Seal is that our founding fathers traced the American
dream and birthright, as astrologer Nora Forrest knew, back to — not
the well-known twelve tribes of Israel — but to the lesser-known thir-

-- 464 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN MELODIES * 401
teenth tribe of Israel, of which Mannaseh was the leader. Also, Gen-
eral George Washington and twelve of his generals were Freemasons,
and therefore numbered thirteen. "To those who understand the
number thirteen are given great power and dominion."
The final power of 13 was manifested when America's Declara-
tion of Independence was signed at the hour when the Sun was depos-
ited at exactly thirteen degrees of Cancer.
Another secret code in addition to "adaptability to change" is
behind the selection of a Gemini Ascendent for America's birth chart.
Gemini. is a dual or double sign, meant to symbolize the day when
Americans shall have spiraled into the illumination of realizing that
matter and energy are inseparable polarities of the same reality. (Two
are one.) When we approach this great truth scientifically as well as
spiritually, as Cleve Backster's work is gently teaching us, we shall be
well on the way to becoming immortals. (See Chapter 9.)
The dark forces on Earth are not lazy; they're always hard at
work, under the adage that "light attracts the darkness." Twice, in
1792 and 1884, Congress tried to pass a law to omit the reverse,
Pyramid side of the Great Seal, -because it was an enigma to the un-
enlightened. By 1884, America's leaders didn't have a clue as to why
our forefathers had designed an image with such metaphysical and
Egyptian undertones. After all, what relationship could there possibly
be between Egypt and the United States ? To some of them, it was
downright embarrassing. Especially when they couldn't explain it or
decode its message. But Divine protection prevailed, and for reasons
now forgotten, such a law was never fulfilled, and today, America has
the only two-sided official Seal in existence.
The Great Seal of the United States of America, the "new Atlan-
tis," contains all the heraldry, drama and esoteric mystery of the Amer-
ican dream conceived by Masters of astrology and numerology,
bearing a profound occult significance, which has left a deep impres-
sion on our national character, even without either our present leaders
or the American people being consciously aware of it.

-- 465 of 676 --



-- 466 of 676 --

Purple Plates
for
Purple Leprechauns

-- 467 of 676 --

404 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
We've already learned that each material object and each human
being vibrates to an individual frequency of angstrom units (light
waves) per second. This is the life force energy responsible for univer-
sal harmony and synchronicity ... the forgotten rainbows and forgot-
ten melodies creating the Oneness of the Universe established by
Cleve Backster's Primary Cell Perception discoveries. In India this life
force energy is called Prana, but whatever it's called you could not live
without it, and at present you Ye using only a fraction of its power.
Your third dimensional mind can use it to tune into the fourth
dimensional cosmic consciousness (your Higher Self) . . . allowing you
to "see the Light" ... to become in tune with the harmony of the
Universe, for within these colors and chords all magic is conceived, all
miracles are born. There are many ways to tune in. Not just one or
two. Many.
One of them is an Aquarian Age, Tesla- inspired discovery I call
"the purple plates," for want of a better term. These plates have been
channeled to Earth from the. higher realms, through the mind and
brain of a man who knew Nikola Tesla, and has studied his discoveries
in depth, but who prefers to remain anonymous, as do many Can-
cerians of profound insight.
These anodized aluminum plates are created in two sizes, one
measuring approximately three inches by five inches and the other
measuring approximately eleven inches by eleven inches. Just one of
the smaller plates will create mountains of magic, but I find it useful to
have both sizes, for various purposes. The plates have been anodized
with the color Violet, which is the healing ray of the rainbow spec-
trum. Their atomic structure has been altered, so that they are in
resonance with a high-frequency vibration of the life energy force, in a
complex way, connected with the known energy of negative ions. The
"purple energy plates" (my own personal name for them) possess a
field of energy capable of penetrating any living thing — plant, animal
or human. t
The life force energy, or Prana, can be measured in several ways.

-- 468 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN MELODIES * 405
One of them is through radionic equipment. Using this measure-
ment, the energy level of an individual man or woman not yet fully
illuminated might register, say, 20 on the scale. When this person is
handed a purple plate the reading will instantly increase to 90 or 95.
It won't remain at that level, but continual use of the plate will gradu-
ally bring the person's energy to 100 permanently. Enlightenment.
And higher than 100, since the life force energy cannot be completely
measured by any device presently known. And so, the use of this
New Age "magic" will eventually raise your frequency rate of angstrom
units per second, which is of obvious benefit to your spiritual evolve -
ment, as well as your path toward cell regeneration (see Chapter 9).
Precisely how the plates work should not be of as much concern
to you as what they can do for you. There are so many mini-miracles
the plates accomplish (some of which you'll discover for yourself) it's
difficult to detail all of them. Here are just a few.
First and foremost, the plates will slowly but very surely raise the
vibratory frequency of those who use them, and that's of prime impor-
tance. They will reduce the negative vibrations in food, water, other
liquids and tobacco. Many people who own them place their food on
the larger size plates, while it's still in the shopping bag from the
market, for about fifteen minutes. Travelers often find that the water
in a foreign country makes them ill, but it won't if the water is ener-
gized on a purple plate for two or three minutes. Cigarettes become
milder after being placed on the plate for fifteen minutes or so, and
pineapple, for instance, will lose its sour taste and become sweet-
tasting.
The magic I personally find to be the most helpful involves pain.
(Aries Rams have a low pain threshold When a purple plate is
placed on a burn or a cut ... or tied with a ribbon or cord on an ache
or a pain anywhere in the body, healing is noticeably accelerated, and
the pain either greatly lessens or disappears entirely with amazing
swiftness, usually within five to ten minutes, seldom longer than
twenty minutes. This is accomplished by the plate's energy in return-

-- 469 of 676 --

406 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
ing the injured cells or tissue to a normal vibrational rate; thus the
healing and disappearance of pain is due to the afflicted area being
returned to the proper balance.
One of the construction workers employed by the contractor in
the remodeling of my house in Colorado came to work one day with a
"splitting migraine headache," and was about to take the day off, until
I tied a "magic purple plate" (the small size) on his head with a sash
from a bathrobe (making him look like Spock when Spock and Kirk
prepared to visit the twentieth century in the film Star Trek IV). I
asked him to leave it on his head for fifteen minutes. He felt rather
foolish, but agreed, and less than five minutes later, when I asked him
about his headache, he was up on a ladder, pounding nails. He
looked down at me, grinned, and said, "It's gone. Completely gone."
"All right, then give me back my purple plate," I said, smiling
back at him, pleased as always to observe the never failing magic. He
replied quite seriously, "No way are you going to get this back ! I'm
leaving it on all day — and I'm taking it home with me." He was only
half serious, of course, but I graciously gave him the plate as a gift, and
he was as delighted as if 1 had given him a magic wand — which, in a
way, it is. Anyone who treats a friend with a purple energy plate is
going to receive a lot of pressure to allow the friend to keep it, so it's
wise to have several on hand for emergencies. The incident I just
related is but one of more than a hundred headaches I've observed
cured instantly by the purple plate over the years.
Another time (one of literally thousands of examples) a friend
was chopping wood for me, and "threw out his arm." His upper arm
was causing him severe pain, and he was on the verge of deciding to
have someone drive him into Woodland Park to a doctor. I made him
sit down on the couch, fixed him a cup of hot tea and tied a purple
plate on his arm. By the time he had finished the tea (and a slice of
cake) the pain had completely disappeared, and five minutes later he
was out in the back yard chopping wood again. New Age medicine !

-- 470 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN MELODIES. * 407
One of thfc magics I've depended on numerous times is the en-
ergy plate's ability to remove the sensation of nausea almost instantly.
Any time I feel severe nausea, for whatever reason, I rush to get a
purple plate, lie down on the bed on my back and place the plate on
my solar plexus. The large size plate usually works more quickly in
this instance, but a small one also does the job, taking only a few
minutes longer. Using the plate in this way causes all sensations of
nausea to disappear within no longer than five minutes, usually within
one to two minutes . . . and sometimes in thirty seconds. I don't know
what 1 would do without that reliable pain and nausea reliever being
always available when I need it in a. hurry. My women friends with
"morning sickness" from pregnancy treat their purple plates as if they
were precious jewels.
Some of piy friends sleep with the plate tucked into the pillow
case (on the bottom side, not the head side) all night. The energy goes
through anything and everything except metal. They awake in the
morning with more energy, and feel as if they've had a full eight hours'
sleep, whether they have or hot. A few people are unable to raise their
vibratory rate in this manner because they're so sensitive to the energy,
they stay awake all night! In any case, this use of the plates should be
limited to one or two nights a week, and when it's important to wake
up early the next morning with extra energy for the reason of an im-
portant meeting or appointment the next day.
As for raising your vibratory frequency with the plates, some peo-
ple will feel increased physical energy and less fatigue by tucking one
in the pocket of a shirt or blouse for thirty minutes to an hour, twice a
day. Every individual is different, and experimenting with the plates
will quickly tell each person the most effective way to use them rela-
tive to his or her own personal response.
In addition to removing nearly all kinds of pain almost instantly,
and all the other minor miracles manifested, there is one particular use
of the purple energy plates I've found to be truly amazing, nearly

-- 471 of 676 --

408 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
unbelievable, yet observably and infallibly true. There's no way to
completely convince you of the validity of this, I suppose, unless you
try it yourself.
We've already learned that each person vibrates to an individual
frequency of light waves, a metaphysical truth or fact that is the foun-
dation of a vast amount of unguessed and unsuspected "magic."
Natives in civilized jungles often refuse to allow missionaries and
other visitors to take their pictures with a camera, for reasons founded
in such "uncivilized" (uncluttered by civilization's mental smog)
minds, and seeded by the more active sixth sense and Third Eye pos-
sessed by these Earthlings. They claim that the one who photographs
them, in some mysterious way, is "robbing them of a piece of their
souls."
This isn't true. However, the photographer is "stealing" their fre-
quency rate, and it's not mysterious to anyone who understands the .
individual vibratory frequency we've discussed. Somehow, through
the process of photography, the individual frequency of the person
who is photographed is impressed upon both the positive and nega-
tive print. Therefore, this particular purple plate magic only works
when the "negative" of the positive print used has not been destroyed,
and is known to exist somewhere, whether in the home, or even in the
files of the photographer who took the original picture — or when
using a Polaroid print, containing both the positive and negative on
the picture itself, back to back.
Let's say a child, a mate, or loved one or a friend (perhaps an
employer or neighbor or co-worker) is behaving in a most negative
and exasperating manner, as we all do, from time to time, human
nature being what it is. You can literally turn that person around,
changing his or her attitude from negative to positive — not perma-
nently, but until the next time — by using your purple energy plate in
the following way. (But don't tell the person what you're doing.)
Place either a Polaroid photo or a positive print of a photo, the

-- 472 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN MELODIES * 409
negative of which you know to. be in existence and not destroyed —
on a small-size purple plate, face down. Leave it there for no longer
than an hour. Usually within approximately fifteen to twenty minutes
that person's attitude will undergo a startling change, will be com-
pletely transformed from "nasty," stubborn, selfish, angry, annoyed or
unsympathetic *— to apologetic, cheerful, unselfish, sympathetic and
pleasant. You really need to experience it to comprehend the sheer
wonder of it. Within minutes, the person will contact you by phone
or in person, depending on where and how the "disagreement" took
place — (or you may initiate the contact yourself) — and will demon-
strate a complete change of attitude, often apologizing for the former
negative behavior or speech. The first few times it happens you'll be
truly stunned . . . almost awed by this kind of energy power. Or you
may choose to manifest this magic before you communicate with a
certain person to ensure that the phone call or meeting is harmonious.
Remember never to tell the person what you're doing. The person's
mind, is then capable of blocking or negating the positive energy
infusion.
This kind of energizing with the purple plate should never be
attempted for a trivial reason — only when it's genuinely important to
change the vibrations between yourself and the other person. And it
must not be thought of as some sort of "black magic" to force people to
change their own free will decisions, because it will not do that. It's
white magic, capable only of temporarily, for a period of time, chang-
ing a person's vibratory rate from negative to positive. 4n other words,
if someone has refused to do what you want them to do, this magic
may cause a change of heart or mind, only if the individual person wishes
to change his or her heart or mind, and is consciously unaware of such a
desire. Otherwise, this process will not cause a change of heart or
mind, but it will have the happy result of creating a new level ofunder-
standing between you, a sort of truce or peace, causing both of you to
be able to handle your conflicting desires, and work out your misun-
derstandings in a friendly manner, without rancor or ill will.
Here is only one of many examples from my personal expert-

-- 473 of 676 --

410 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
ence. A friend of mine who lives in Colorado Springs visited me one
day in Cripple Creek, in tears. Her husband, whom she loved deeply,
had become an alcoholic. She'd tried everything, but nothing would
convince him to stop drinking, although he was, basically, a "religious
man," with a kind heart, who admitted that he wanted to stop drink-
ing but just couldn't. I asked my friend if she would lend me a picture
of him for a few days.
She looked surprised, but gave me a Polaroid she carried with her
in her pocketbook. Then she asked me, with understandable curi-
osity, what I intended to do with her husband's picture. Knowing that
she wasn't yet at a stage of enlightenment to comprehend the powerful
harmony frequencies of the Universe, and feeling that her disbelief
might short-circuit what I planned, my response was cryptic. I just
smiled, and said, u
Oh, I'm just going to try some 'white witch' magic."
She left, and that evening I placed her husband's picture on one
of my small-size purple plates, leaving it there for the full hour. Never
having used the photograph process in this way before, I wasn't sure
what might — or might not — happen.
The next morning my friend telephoned me from the restaurant
where she worked, in a combined state of happiness and bewilder-
ment. "You can't guess what just happened about an hour ago !" she
exclaimed. "Jim (not his real name) stopped in on his lunch hour, and
told me he's decided to stop drinking, 'cold turkey,' and he's going to
start going to church every Sunday ! I could tell he really meant it.
He's never been that serious about it before. What did you do to
make that happen ?"
I told her I was very happy to hear the news, but not to be con-
cerned about the "why" of it —just wait and see how serious he was.
Two months later, she visited me again in Cripple Creek. "Jim" had
been making her go to church with him every Sunday, and he hadn't
had a drop to drink. A year later, he was still sober. At this point, I
let her believe I had "prayed," using his picture, and gave her back the

-- 474 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN MELODIES * 41
1
photograph. Two years after his period of being sober he began
drinking again. Then I told my friend the purple plate story, and was
rewarded by hearing her express absolute faith in the magic, with no
scepticism.
Although her husband had by then left to go to another state, and
they were legally separated, she asked me for a purple plate, and I gave
her one, warning her that no prediction could be made, as with
"ordinary" use of it, when it came to something like alcoholism, re-
garding the length of time it would take for the magic to manifest.
Instead of the usual 15 to 20 minutes or so, it could take much longer
treatment, once a day or several times a week. She understood. That
was last year. A week ago she called me in California to tell me that
"Jim" had come back home, and was now permanently cured. He had
entered a cure center in another state, and hadn't wanted to return
until he knew he was free of the desire to drink. They're as happy as
two bugs in a rug, as my Irish elf-mother used to say. Naturally, I
can't promise that the purple plate will always cure alcoholism, but it
certainly can't hurt . . ? and who knows ? That's what experimenta-
tion is for.
The reason for not leaving a photo on the plate for longer than
one hour at a time (and preferably no more often than once or twice a
week) is because some people are extremely sensitive to its energy,
and too much "exposure" can cause the person being so "treated" to
exhibit nervousness or hypertension. If anyone uses the photo experi-
ment for such an. evil purpose deliberately, it will not cause such a
reaction, because the law of the Universe regarding the life force en-
ergy will absolutely block such a result, boomeranging the tenseness
back upon the user. This is an unbreakable law of magic when one
tries to use such a sacred life force for evil. The only time to be
concerned about overexposure is when the motive has been to be of
benefit to someone, and then the tension will be felt briefly, because
the overexposure was not intentional. Otherwise, the user will be
mighty sorry for having attempted to cause harm to another. The
sensitivity of some people to these energies has been demonstrated by

-- 475 of 676 --

412 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
what occurs when the plates are brought into the vicinity of mentally
disturbed patients in institutions. They react in various ways, but
always intensely; therefore, its advisable to use the photos of any se-
verely mentally disturbed people you'd like to help for no longer than
a half hour each time.
While you're pondering what I realize you may believe to be the
bizarre nature of the energy of the purple plates, especially as used
with photographs, you might keep in mind that scientists have been
for several years successfully experimenting with eradicating insects
by irradiating a photograph of the diseased fields. Orthodox scientists,
that is. (I knew that would make some of you feel better !) By the
way, it doesn't matter whether the photograph you expose to these life
force energies is one taken recently — yesterday — or when the pho-
tographed subject was a child or an infant. The individual vibratory
frequency doesn't change.
The only pain or discomfort the purple energy force field has not
relieved, in my personal observation for more than ten years, is the
pain caused by a twisted muscle, a slipped disc, or misplaced ver-
tebra. All other pain is swiftly either greatly relieved or completely
banished. 1 almost forgot a special message to plant lovers. Water
your plants with water treated on a plate, and notice the difference in
their growth. Also, place a purple plate under fresh flowers from a
florist, and they'll last nearly twice as long before wilting. Regarding
plants, there's another bit of magic that's been developed by the same
Nikola Tesla- inspired researcher, along with several other energy in-
novations. You can obtain the purple plates and these other life force
energy "magics" by writing to Energy Innovation Products — P.O. Box
5011, Scottsdale, Arizona 85261 — USA.
Under normal circumstances I don't believe it's proper to include
this sort of information in a book of this kind, but since I believe it's
important to plant the seeds, of such Tesla-inspired high frequency
harmonics of the golden Age of Aquarius, I know my readers would be
cross with me for sharing these esoteric secrets and ancient mysteries

-- 476 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN MELODIES * 413
without also sharing the knowledge of how they can obtain them for
personal experimentation.
No medical healing claims are made for the purple plate ener-
gies. They're not intended in any sense to replace the proper treat-
ment of serious health problems by a professional holistic medical
doctor, and I'm sure my readers have the common sense to realize, for
example, that complaints such as chest pains need immediate medical
attention. But as for the other magics I've described here, you 11 dis-
cover for yourself how effective the purple plates can be, and you'll
never be without one after you Ve seen what they will do .... far
more, 1 promise you, than the over-the-counter medications that re-
ceive such high-profile advertising in all media, to which the medical
profession doesn't object.
One final incident of the purple plate life force energies (you'll
discover lots of uses on your own): A teacher friend of mine in Colo-
rado has found the perfect remedy when one of her grade-school stu-
dents is being naughty and disrupting the class. In her schoolroom is
a chair with a pillow on the seat. No one is allowed to touch the
pillow or go near the chair. It's called The Magic Good Pillow. Any
student who is behaving badly is told to " sit on the Good Pillow" for
fifteen minutes. When the child returns to its seat he (or she) has
turned (at least temporarily !) into a perfect little angel. Of course one
of the large plates is beneath the pillow. My teacher friend has discov-
ered her own personal way of creating purple magic.
The plates have been in use by many people for more than fifteen
years — I've had my own for more than ten years — and they still
function as effectively after that length of time. Once the structure of
the atoms of the aluminum have been altered, they will remain in that
condition . . . probably indefinitely. The plates are not "charged";
they are simply altered to vibrate with life force energy of the Universe
— what Nikola Tesla called "free energy."
Translating my personal choice of "purple" plates to describe

-- 477 of 676 --

414 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
these energies (possibly because my favorite faerie tale as a child was
about a "purple elf named Leser") . . . into the true color of the plates,
which is the rainbow spectrum musical "tone" of violet, it represents
the seventh ray and the "violet flame" of the Avatar-Adept, the Comte
de St. Germain. In metaphysics, violet is the healing ray of the
spectrum.
To lead us "harmonically" into the next chapter, on the study of
Lexigrams, here's an introductory Lexigram for you. The word
VIOLET contains the words LOVE and LIVE ... also LET. And so,
VIOLET whispers softly to us the perfect healing prescription for all
illness. Do you want to heal others ... or yourself ? Well, then
First LOVE . then LET LIVE !
******
If you're a male reader of this book, and you should happen to
come home from work some evening to find the woman you love
waiting for you with a purple plate tied around her head — and then
discover she's moved your favorite, cozy armchair to the south side of
the fireplace for no rational reason, don't panic and think the space
people have landed and zapped her into such weird behavior.
Because there's so much controversy flying around among as-
tronomers and astrologers these days about the actual, scientific date
of the Age of Aquarius — and his book seems to be so involved with
the Aquarian Age — I believe I'll end this chapter with some lines
from Gooberz in an attempt to close the gap between the pros and cons
of the actual date marking the beginning of the new, golden Age.
******

-- 478 of 676 --

FORGOTTEN MELODIES * 415
do not listen
to those smug prophets and Cassandras
who argue endlessly and monotonously
that the Aquarian Age is, technically, not yet here
and who babble and quarrel among themselves
about the stern astronomical Precession of the Equinoxes
ignoring the Urania'n Procession of Children
walking through the loneliness with lighted candles
chanting Peace
all we ask ... is give Peace a chance
we are well within an astrological
orb of influence ]
of those unpredictable Aquarian vibrations
as a matter of fact ...
a matter of both astronomical and astrological fact
we are as close to them now as the Earth was
to the trembling vibrations of the Piscean Age
when the symbolic Fish of Christianity
first swam into the muddy streams of ignorance
on this dark and dreary planet
at the time of Mary and Joseph's weary ride into Bethlehem
to the teeming Inn, where there was
no room
. with the same over population problem
no room
for the hungry and the homeless
or for the despairing oppressed
in our selfish, seeking hearts
no room for those who wear the robes of a different
iskin
or who hear the call of a distant drummer

-- 479 of 676 --

416 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
no room for those who follow a different star
whether it be the Star of David
or the Hopi Indian star of harvest faith
so ... is it any wonder . . . that we're having a sexual revolution
that we shake under the Uranian thunder
of individuality of hairstyles, music, clothing, politics
and religious convictions ?
with women clamoring to be Ministers and Priests
and riots on campus, introducing the Seventies, taking
their toll
didn't you see it all coming, Mr. Gallup and Mr. Poll ?
didn't you feel Kent State coming ?
or do you scoff at the stars — and ignore the planets too
as blind astronomers and other scientists are wont to
do ? .
I see them all squatting
in their Kindergarten of Knowledge
the professors and the shrinks
the scientists and the astronomers
the sociologists and poll takers
and an occasional politician
playing with Truth
as children play with colored blocks
lettered ABC
for Apathy — Blindness — and Cop Out
and such
then, when their blocks topple over
from too much emphasis on Equatorial Equinoxes
they rage in childish petulance
and bang each other over the head
with the offending chunks of wooden facts

-- 480 of 676 --

blocks
FORGOTTEN MELODIES * 417
do not bang me over the head with your ABC
colored with half-truths
you disciples of Thomas, the Doubter
you will not break the Ram's tough horns !
The Aquarian Age is here !
and its pulsating, powerful, contradictory orb
mixing with the Sun rays of the roaring Lion
. . . Leo, the sign opposite Aquarius ...
is ominous, if not heeded
locking the New Age in your scientific closets
with boring, tiresome technicalities
. will not cause it to disappear
yes, the vibration of Aquarius is here
and much too close for comfort . . .
it burns my soul
and sears my mind
with unanswered questions
******

-- 481 of 676 --



-- 482 of 676 --

8
LEXIGRAMS
AND THE WORD DRUIDS
the use of words to penetrate the meanings of
ancient codes . . .
the profound mysteries of the English language
and how to lexigram the secrets of words,
names, titles, and phrases
*

-- 483 of 676 --

420 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
words divine, words sublime . . . holy, holy words !
a picture is worth ten thousand words
so the Oriental sages say . . . and therefore is the higher
nay, nay ... for shame !
for it takes words to tell . . . even of that ancient claim
the hidden glory of every story
shines forth in words, words, words !
the miracle of the Easter gladness
overcoming death's morbid sadness
is told in words, words, words !
words have wings, like birds
to fly through the sky of the mind
. . . be ye aS wiSe aS a Serpent
yet aS harmleSS aS a dove . . .
words ... those mysterious scribbles on a page
holding the wisdom of every age
the experience and teaching of every sage
oh! the beautiful rhyming of the proper timing
of words !
powerful words, that ring with truth
words that sing, forsooth !
yes, words that ring and words that sing
words of spring and every good thing . . . like kitties

-- 484 of 676 --

Mm
LEXIGRAMS * 421
hat are Lexigrams ? Lexigrams can be used in sev-
eral ways to solve riddles and penetrate mysteries.
First well need to learn more about what they are . .
.
then the rules of how to calculate them . . . and fi-
nally, the reason behind the mighty power of words.
And so, this chapter will be patterned as follows:
What Are Lexigrams ?
How Do They Work ?
The Rules for Calculating Them
Some Examples
The Mystery of Their Origin
More Examples
Perhaps ... a Final Secret
******
You may lexigram a word, a name, a title or a phrase. Well begin
with words. Each word possesses its own immutable meaning, which
is, even when not immediately apparent, the genotype of the word —
its gene. In fact, GENE is a Lexigram of GENOTYPE, thereby contain-
ing the basis of this word's meaning. Sometimes the origin and forma-
tion of words is consciously deliberate, as with "genotype" and "gene,"
but more often it's not.
It's simple to deduce why, for example, the noun "failure" con-
tains within it the verb "fail" — why the word "consequence" contains
the word "sequence" (first you act, then, in sequence, comes the con-
sequence of your action). It's not simple, and not nearly so obvious to
penetrate why "consequence" should contain the word "queen!"
Could the word have been conceived in antiquity, when royalty was
born in a matriarchal society, and it was the Queen who ordered the

-- 485 of 676 --

422 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
punishment or consequence of an action ? Yes. It not only could
have been, it was. Neither is it quite so simple or obvious to compre-
hend why the word OCEAN should contain the word EON. After
you've become accustomed to the thought process developed in mas-
tering Lexigrams, you'll know why.
As we've just seen, a certain percentage of all words in the En-
glish dictionary were formed consciously and deliberately by human
wordsmiths or from common usage, with logical patterns and obvious
progressions. However, a much larger percentage were conceived and
born from the mass collective subconscious womb of whispering mem-
ory .. . and these are the words holding the greatest riddles, hiding the
deepest mysteries.
As with other such occult secrets, the Lexigram star sign code has
chosen to hide itself, in this instance behind the bland mask of ana-
grams, a word game played for intellectual exercise and amusement.
Lexigrams are not for amusement or intellectual exercise. They probe
behind anagrams to uncover higher knowledge and wisdom, hiding-
in-plain-sight, where many esoteric mysteries hide, unsuspected and
therefore undiscovered. Most satisfying of all to those who master
them, Lexigrams can verify what intuition has only hinted at, concern-
ing history, science and people. -
Naturally, not every single word in your dictionary will lend itself
to valid or revealing lexigramming — please remember that — never-
theless, many an English word is, in itself and of itself, a kind of
concentrated poem or verse, masking symbolic images and concepts.
Taking the time to examine each word having a bearing on your
thoughts at the moment opens up a whole new uni-verse of percep-
tion, so you can harmonize and "sing along" with the one true verse of
the life force energies we studied in the "Forgotten Melodies" chapter.
Sometimes lexigramming will bring the polarities of the material
and spiritual realms into communion in your mind. It's as exhilarat-
ing as an electrical storm when you experience an instant lightning.

-- 486 of 676 --

LEX1GRAMS * 423
flash of realization, accompanied by the thunderous recognition of a
long forgotten truth . . . suddenly recalled.
The mystic from Lebanon, Kahlil Gibran, wrote that "thoughts
are like birds, which, when imprisoned in a cage of words, can indeed
spread their wings, but cannot fly." However, when words are lex-
igrammed, the resulting thoughts are released, and can fly . . . not only
"over the rainbow" ... but measureless miles beyond.
Anyone can surely fly into the sunrise of a richly rewarding astral
trip, for example, simply by concentrating (as mentioned in Chapter
1) on why the word IDEA, belonging to the material realm, should
become an IDEAL by adding the letter L for Love, belonging to the
spiritual realm.
Also mentioned in an earlier chapter (and it bears repeating), the
word UNTIED, meaning "separation," becomes the word UNITED,
simply by reversing 2 letters. Rt-versing them. Write a new verse !
This realization leads you swiftly into the thought that, if two people
(or two nations) become separated, all they need do is re-verse their
viewpoints to become once more united. Or as the American Indians
counseled, if each would walk a mile in the other's moccasins.
Not only by reading- books, but also through the quiet con-
templation of Lexigrams, you can receive insights occasionally even
leading you into a penetration of both the truth and falsehood of myth
and legend. There's much buried treasure in that area — also in mat-
ters omitted from history as chronicled by those ignorant of certain
past events, as well as by those motivated in preventing future genera-
tions from learning them.
As for probing history, the Church of England was formed when
King Henry VIII divorced his wife, Catherine of Aragon, who had
borne him no sons, so he could marry Anne Bolyen. Henry's divorce
so outraged the Pope in Rome, he sent word from the Vatican that
Henry was forthwith to be ex-communicated from the Catholic
Church. Unruffled and arrogant, Henry founded his own church, the

-- 487 of 676 --

424 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
Church of England, and made himself the head of it, dropping his
allegiance to the Pope. When the Church of England formed its
American branch it was called the Episcopal Church. The word
EPISCOPAL contains the letters of the words LOSE A POPE, which they
did, undeniably. It also contains the word ELOPE, which is religiously
what Henry did with Anne. Why it should contain LIES needs to be
studied and pondered more deeply. Here's a hint. I shall someday
soon be writing a book about the long-kept secret that history has
"lied" in saying that Anne suffered a miscarriage in prison, where she
was placed by Henry to await her execution.
Instead, shortly before she was beheaded, she gave birth to a
premature, redheaded male infant, by the locksmith-jail keeper,
Moner Hughes, who smuggled the infant out of prison, and named
him William Moner, to hide the truth from Henry. The child grew up
to father a son he named Moner Hughes, the ancestor of Howard
Hughes. The word LIES, therefore, belongs in the word EPISCOPAL
for more than one reason.
Because every ancient secret is revealed at its allotted time (when
the student Earthlings are thought to be ready) — and never pre-
maturely, before, its time — it follows that the Aquarian Age has rung
the bells of this particular secret, allowing it to be channeled to the
world as the ancient star sign code I've christened Lexigrams.
The word Lexigrams equals the Compound Number 27 in nu-
merology, an appropriate identification number, as discovered
through its sister art and science. Lexigrams, astrology and numer-
ology are sibling codes. I have a still secret reason for giving only the
first one a capital letter.
All three codes are of invaluable help to anyone who wants to
learn how to analyze people, events and entities. You already know
what "entities" are from reading the definition in the earlier chapter
about numerology. The same definition applies to lexigrammed
"entities."

-- 488 of 676 --

LEXIGRAMS * 425
More basic knowledge of life can be comprehended through lex-
igramming than by reading only the surface of words in all books ever
written (including this one), because Lexigrams help you revive your
sleeping sixth sense, which will, in turn, gently coax open your Third
Eye, allowing you to then uncover layer after layer of the mysteries
swirling around you — the enigmas of Heaven and hell and every-
thing in between, including the intricacies and complexities of human
relationships. When you become an expert in calculating Lexigrams
it's possible to learn as much as the wisest Guru could teach you.
Because it possesses such a startling code key to truth, let's take the
word Guru itself, as an example of one of the multiple facets of lex-
igramming that is slightly different from the calculation' of basic
Lexigrams.
Pronounce each of the four letters comprising the word GURU as
G-U-R-U, separately, aloud. Do this three times. When these four let-
ters are pronounced separately aloud they form a speech "sound" in the
ethers, making it seem as if the word Guru is saying: Gee ! You are . . .
you ! Which happens to be precisely the mission of any Guru — to
bring you to the realization that you, too, are an Avatar. You, too, are
a Guru. You, too, are a Messiah.
As with all forms of lexigramming, the apparently innocent and
simple meditation of this one single word spirals our thoughts into
higher truth. You don't believe that you are a Messiah ? You are.
And the "second coming" was not intended to be the appearance of a
man from Galilee, with a beard and white robe, floating down from
the skies. He may — or may not — be on Earth now, in a physical
body, but only a few Initiates will know his identity, to protect the
truth he taught and will teach again — from a new distortion caused
by the defeating doctrine of "Divinity."
Yes, Jesus was "the son of God" But so are you the son — or the
daughter — of God. So far, still the "prodigal son" or "prodigal
daughter" — but, nevertheless the child of your Creators, your Mother
and Father "Who art in Heaven" whether they be called God or

-- 489 of 676 --

426 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
Jehovah or the Almighty. Divinity implies that "the imitation of
Christ" is a hopeless quest, doomed to failure, for how can "lowly
you," only a human, ever attain anything near the goodness, the
"power and the glory" of one who was "the son of God"? Jesus was
born to remind all people of their original birthright of divinity, to
speak to the slumbering "angels" within them — their Higher Selves.
The Nazarene tried so hard to make it clear each time he said "Be
it done to you according to your faith" ... in other words, "I did not
heal you because I am special or above you. Your own faith that I
could is what healed you." But spiritually lazy humans kept respond-
ing with "Master, heal me," because the doctrine of Divinity didn't
require the discipline necessary for self-healing. It was much easier to
just let him do it. Jesus also repeatedly said "All things that 1 have
done, you can do also. Go, thou, and do likewise — and more." Now,
how could any words be more clear than these ? Yet the masses con-
tinued to beg, "Master, heal me."
Jesus was "only" human, only a man, although a very enlightened
one, whose mission on Earth was to teach each soul that he or she
could perform the same magic as he, if they were willing to listen to
the slumbering angel within, and to practice the same disciplines as
he: giving, caring, compassion, forgiveness, selflessness and above all
. . love.
Jesus was human, but Jesus "the Christ" was a different person
(albeit the same flesh body) — one who had achieved the power of
immortality (see Chaper 9) through mastery over the physical body
and harmonious communication with his Spirit or Higher Self — as
you may do and become also.
The "second coming" is not what is now expected, just as the true
mission of the babe born in Bethlehem was not what the Jews ex-
pected it to be two thousand years ago. The "second coming" will be
in the heart of every man and every woman on Earth of good and
pure, unselfish intent: "Behold," said the Angel, "I bring tidings of

-- 490 of 676 --

LEXIGRAMS * 427
great joy ... to men ojgood will." This, too, is the awesome revelation
of Easter, which will be recognized when all people realize that they
are also "messiahs" — gods and goddesses (no one above or below
anyone else), possessing great powers they have too long forgotten.
Let's try to find evidence of this eternal truth of the wondrous
birthright possessed by all "fallen angels" on Earth, through Lex-
igrams. Can each man and each woman become a "messiah" if they
live as he lived ?
The word MESSIAH contains the following ringing words, as a
message to those whose Third Eyes are open to truth:
HE IS HIM . . . HE IS SAME AS HIM . . HE IS SHE . . . SHE IS HIM . . . HE
IS SAME AS ME ... I AM SAME AS HIM . . . SHE IS SAME AS HIM .. .
Hiding also behind MESSIAH is the celebration of the Catholic
MASS. This Lexigram is as logical and clear,as any message could be
to those who use their intelligence and intuition. Those who do have,
perhaps, already tuned in to those 3 vowels and 6 separate letters in
the word Messiah. Remember the 3-6-9 mystery in numeroloy ?
Here it is again. Three vowels: the holy trinity of the you-of-you. Six
separate letters: 6 is Venus — Love. Together, 3 and 6 add to 9. The
Alpha and the Omega — the Beginning and the End. The total
number of letters in Messiah is seven. 'Seven ... the spiritual number,
in its higher dimensional vibration.
This is one example of the way Lexigrams can cause your
thoughts to spiral into a major or minor revelation you may not other-
wise have had cause to ponder. I call this process one-word-spiraling,
although it can also be done, using the same kind of spiral thinking,
with a name, a title or a phrase containing more than one word. By
spiral thinking I mean that the process sends your thoughts spiraling
upward with the power to penetrate the place where all mysteries are
born. Like a mental screwdriver , . . and that's a near perfect analogy.
The rules of working Lexigrams are both different from and sim-

-- 491 of 676 --

428 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
ilar to the game of anagrams. But you must never think that Lex-
igrams are synonomous with anagrams. The latter is merely a game
for light intellectual amusement; the former is a serious spiritual pro-
cess of decoding.
When you're decoding secrets through Lexigrams you first make
a list of all the words contained within the single word — the name —
or the multiple word phrase you want to penetrate. Remember that
you don't need to use all the words in your final Lexigram — only as
many of them as you need to make the meaning you're seeking clear.
After you've made your list of words you tune into your Higher
Self, through intuition, using your sixth sense, as you place the words
together, on a separate sheet of paper, to form short phrases or sen-
tences. Your own instinct will then overshadow you, filling your
mind with inspiration, as you place the words on the page in patterns
that reveal such astonishing insights, you'll sometimes gasp aloud in
the sheer delight of discovery.
It takes a little practice, then all of a sudden you find that you can
do it, and you'll feel as though someone had switched on a bright light
in a dark room. After that it's like eating potato chips or Goobers
Peanuts. You can't stop. You quite nearly are tempted to scribble on
walls and such, which is why it's a good idea, if you're going to be-
come enlightened by lexigramming, to carry a small notebook and pen
or pencil with you at all times. I blush to confess that I once came
close to writing on a friend's lampshade, but caught myself before any
damage was done. And, more times than I like to count, I'm afraid
I've scribbled a hasty Lexigram on my wrist or the flesh of my palm,
when I was stunned by a sudden concept and there wasn't a scrap of
paper to be found in the vicinity at the time. Thus my counsel, born
from experience, to have a proper pad and pencil on your person, at
the ready.
Lexigrams do churn up the adrenaline irresistibly, and it's diffi-
cult to pull in the reins, once the race to solve the riddles of yourself

-- 492 of 676 --

LEXIGRAMS * 429
and the mysteries of the Universe has exploded through the starting
gate of the Mind.
Remember the Zebra Rule in the numerology chapter ? Lex-
igrams also have a Zebra Rule to follow.
Let's say you lexigram a person's name, and it contains the word
liar or the phrase he lies or she lies. Or any other such negative word,
such as thief or steal Any word indicating negative action or an ex-
tremely negative trait.
When a negative word appears in a name Lexigram, and the let-
ters N and or N and O and T (which can be used to cancel the
negative, forming, for example — "he is not a liar" — or "she does not
lie") do not appear in the Lexigram, then that person has a problem,
and needs to change his or her name to cancel the negative word or
phrase, also changing to a more favorable numerological vibration —
and also needs to be aware of the necessity of bringing this personal
character flaw under control.
This is especially true if the foregoing "cancel" letters and words
do not appear in the Lexigram — and in addition, the letters forming
YES appear, which would cause the negative words to read: "is he a
liar ?" Yes. Or: "Does she lie ?" Yes.
However, when a negative word appears, and the letters N and O
— or N and O and T also appear, as the words "no" or "not" to cancel
the negative — while the letters forming YES do not appear — it
means that the person (or word) being lexigrammed will have been
accused of whatever the negative word implies, but is not guilty. The
person (or word) is guilty only when the word YES appears in the
Lexigram without the cancel power of the words NO or NOT. I realize
that this sounds complicated, but if you read it over several times,
you'll understand it, because it's inherently logical. The Zebra Rule is
necessary in lexigramming so that you won't accuse a person (or word
or title) of something he or she or it is not guilty of doing or being.
Here are the remaining rules for calculating Lexigrams. If they

-- 493 of 676 --

430 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
aren't observed, you won't learn anything of consequence or
dependability.
1. Each letter of each word in your Lexigram must be contained
within the original word, name or phrase you are lexigramming.
You can use each letter in the original more than once in forming
each separate word of your Lexigram, but not in the same word.
For example, you can't produce the word "wishes" as a Lexigram
if your original word, name or phrase contains only one letter "s."
But if the original contains two of the same letter, you may. Ex-
ample: the word "moonlight" contains two o's; therefore so may
any single word in your Lexigram.
2. The word, name or phrase you are lexigramming may not contain
more than four of the five vowels (a-e-i-o-u). It's best if the origi-
nal contains only three or fewer vowels. Remember that four
vowels are not ideal, but they are permissible. All five vowels are
not. If the original word, name or phrase contains five vowels, it
does not want to be lexigrammed, and is too complex to allow
you to learn anything from it.
3. The original word, name or phrase may not contain more than
fifteen different and separate letters of the alphabet, although it'^
permissible for the original to contain a particular letter two or
more times, such as "moonlight sonata," and, in such a phrase,
the extra o's don't count, under the rule of "no more than fifteen
separate and different letters of the alphabet." Example: The orig-
inal single word moonlight contains two vowels and only eight
letters. It actually contains nine letters, but that second o doesn't
count. Only the first one.
4. The reason for Rules 2 and 3 is that, if an original word, name or
phrase contains five vowels and more than fifteen separate and
different letters of the alphabet, you could form just about every
word in the dictionary, and your Lexigram won't reveal anything
personal or reliable.

-- 494 of 676 --

LEXIGRAMS * 431
5. Make all the words you can from the original word, name or
phrase. Then study them. Look at them. Use your intuition and
instinct to then form the words into short sentences. Complete
your final Lexigram in ALL CAPITAL LETTERS, as demonstated
in the examples later on in this chapter. If necessary, you may
add in lower case, an a or a the or a but — in parenthesis — to
bring more meaning to a sentence, but this should be done spar-
ingly, and only if necessary to comprehend the full meaning of a
sentence in the Lexigram. As you study both the single word and
multiple word examples in this chapter, it will be clear to you
how to calculate your own Lexigrams.
Here are a few samples of brief Lexigrams, which, even when
they're only amusing or slightly humorous (depending on which side
of any particular fence you're on) also bear more than a grain of truth.
Later, we'll study some "heavier" ones.
Original Lexigram
Diplomacy Mad policy
Moonlight Thin gloom
Weird nightmares Withering dreams
HMS Pinafore A name of a ship
The South Sea Islands A thousand islets shine
Republican Incurable clan (if you're a Democrat)
Democratic Rated comic (if you're a Republican)
South So hot
North Not hot
Armageddon Mad god near
Postage Paste to pages
Violent No love
Murder Red drum
Test your sensitivity, esoteric ability, your sixth sense and your
talent for word-spiraling on the last word on the list. Do you see why,
in a sixth or an esoteric sense, this is valid? Murder: Red drum.

-- 495 of 676 --

432 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
Many words convey a more subtle and meaningful message than
was consciously intended when they first "appeared" in the English
language. The truth is that people do not, in reality, originate words.
Words are conceived and born of their own S-elves, with definite
minds of their own, and you'll soon see why. Words are alive. They
live ! Shortly, we'll examine the evidence of this.
Lexigrams can be silly, trite, serious or sacred. The examples just
given were partially silly or trite, partially serious. Yet even the silly
ones are shaded with subtle implications. Evidence that people don't
consciously create words with surprising Lexigrams is the word Dem-
ocratic. Would Democrats have consciously created a word describ-
ing their political behavior as "comic" ? Would Republicans have
consciously created a name to describe their party that reveals their
conservative policies seem to be "incurable" ? And it must be admit-
ted that "comic" and "incurable" are apt definitions of the behavior of
both political parties on occasion.
The fact that the name of opera singer BEVERLY SILLS contains
SILVERY BELLS is an example of one of the perhaps trite but neverthe-
less fascinating aspects of Lexigrams. By thus naming her, Beverly's
parents unknowingly reflected the singular quality of her voice, which
would be the foundation of her career. Maybe not so trite a Lexigram
after all !
Not sacred but certainly not silly or trite, is the Lexigram of femi-
nine rights leader, MS. GLORIA STEINEM, which tells us that GLORIA
SMITES MEN. Random thought: They need a bit of smiting, Gloria,
until they get it together.
One of the strongest evidences of the undeniable validity of Lex-
igrams is that the Lexigram of one person's name cannot be transferred
or used to describe another person. There's no reason for Gloria
Steinem's name to contain "silvery bells," so it doesn't —just as there's
no reason for the name Beverly Sills to contain "she smites men," so it
doesn't. "Silvery bells" belongs to Beverly Sills, and "she smites men"

-- 496 of 676 --

LEXIGRAMS * 433
belongs to Gloria Steinem. Lexigrdms are not interchangeable because
they are born from the alphabetical letters of the person they de-
scribe. There's no arguing with such an obvious fact, and well see
more irrefutable proof of it in a number of examples of lexigramming
the names of well-known public figures later on in this chapter.
Ill also be demonstrating many more single word Lexigrams
later, but before continuing with additional examples, so that you can
fully appreciate them, you'll need to understand the startling reason
why the words of the English language possess such power . . . and
such uncanny intelligence. We learned the great importance of sound
in the "Forgotten Melodies" chapter concerning the harmony and syn-
chronicity of the Universe, and it should have prepared you to next
comprehend the mighty power of words themselves. But . . . why
should words vibrate with such power ? Why do they hold such
unguessed secrets ? Why are they able to solve so many riddles and
mysteries, at the same time being capable of inflicting so much pain
and creating such confusion ? From whence did they come, these
entities called words, belonging to the "race" of the English language ?
You've heard the phrase "a dead language," and you've heard the
phrase "a living language." The former is a language no longer used,
of real value only to scholars. The latter is believed to mean " a lan-
guage still written and spoken." But the phrase "a living language"
when employed to describe English hides more layers of meaning than
are apparent on the surface of it.
The English language, formed from the Anglo-Saxon alphabet, is
— literally — alive. All other languages, whether based on the Anglo-
Saxon or different alphabets, only exist, and aren't truly alive in the
sense I mean, and this is not to be construed as prejudice from an
English-speaking person. Lexigrams do not work; they are not valid in
any language other than English. This is something for you to seriously
ponder, because the reason behind it is perhaps the most profound of
all mysteries. We'll discuss it after we first learn to comprehend that
words are not just marks on a page but living entities, capable of many

-- 497 of 676 --

434 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
unsuspected magics. As you will shortly see, there was a time when
they became so, and a reason for their becoming so.
Like any living thing, the English language keeps growing and
evolving, even leaving the fossils of "dead" words behind. &*it**ic
That sentence may possibly become important at the end of this chap-
ter, which is why I marked it with stars.
Now, will you open your mind a few inches while we consider
why I've said that words are "living entities" ?
Some words are mutants of original words, and so words un-
dergo mutation. They meet, "fuse" or fall in love, so to speak — and
they mate. They can and do produce "children." Hybrid words and
varieties of compound words are the progeny or offspring of "parent"
words, who (not which) earlier "fused" (fell in love) — and mated.
Yes, mated. After they tamed each other. You see, MATE and
TAME are synonomous words in the an and science of Lexigrams.
Because mate is tame, and tame is mate, when you switch the letters
around. Of course. To mate is to tame — or should be. Remember
how the fox taught St. Exupery's "Little Prince" to tame him, by mov-
ing a few inches closer each day, with great patience, to gain his love
and trust ? It is not necessary to mate because you have tamed, but it
is most desirable to tame before you mate.
Most important, each entity word, even those words which "look
alike" (like human twins, astral twins and doubles), such as tame-mate
and mate-tame, are nevertheless distinct individuals, regardless of an
"inherited" relationship to any other word or words. Just like people.
Each word's individuality is hidden within its "soul" or "spirit," wait-
ing to be discovered.
Although the following rightfully belongs in a later book, this
particular "twelfth night secret" must be mentioned here in general,
not in detail, as a foundation for the mighty power of words. I won't
make any attempt to defend it in these pages, nor to offer the source of

-- 498 of 676 --

LEXIGRAMS iV 435
the revelation. Therefore, many of you may at first tend to disagree.
But whatever your initial response, try to accept the premise that En-
glish — yes, English — was the first language spoken upon this Earth
and on all other Earths, in all solar systems and Universes.
Humans tend to insist that anything of vast antiquity must be
strange, complex and "foreign." On those rare occasions when Earth-
lings think at all about the language spoken "in the beginning," when
Eve allegedly said to Adam, "Have a bite of this delicious apple, dar-
ling," it's usually imaged (by Americans) as some long- forgotten form
of ancient Hebrew, Eskimo or gobbledygook — anything, as long as
it's weird and not familiar.
Linking antiquity and the familiar is taboo, one of those rules
accepted as having been engraved in stone, like the Ten Command-
ments, one of those rules that are merely wisps of custom, having no
relationship to reality. Yet each such unfounded rule continues to lure
humans into accepting it as "gospel truth." That's to be expected, 1
suppose, since the word RULE hides the word LURE. Rule is lure, and
lure is rule. Quite ! as Guru Nahtan would say, in his wonted quiet
way. Naturally, since QUITE is also QUIET, through a quick switch of
letters.
The reason it's such a shock to people to conceive that English
was the original language spoken in the Eden-Heaven now called
Earth is that it's difficult for them to recall any memories of Eden and
Eve in a time so many eons before the Tower of Babel, although they
should be able to evoke memories of Eve in the garden, since EVOKE
contains EVE.
The symbolic building of the Tower of Babel describes the wan-
ton destruction of primordial English, which originally vibrated so
purely to the Music of the Spheres that it fell as gently on the ethers
and human ears as singing ... or chanting. To speak in those original
tones and rhythms was truly to sing ! Well, what do you know !
ENGLISH contains SING. Quite. English, however, lost its musical,

-- 499 of 676 --

436 * LINDAGOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
harmonious purity after Adam began to tell HIS LIES, two words also
hiding in ENGLISH. Note that it does not contain her lies, for a reason
related in a forthcoming work. It's interesting that to RELATE
something means to tell what is REAL — LATER, after it has oc-
curred. RELATE tells you all this. It defines itself. It's easy to get lost
in thought and revelation when you're tuned into Lexigrams. Where
was I ?
As that future book will relate, many lies were seeded by Adam,
after he became MAD, the word being prophetically hidden within his
name, ADAM — and that's the truth, even if it offends and hurts the
mistaken images promoted by the patriarch-minded. All truth hurts
to some degree, since it digs out falsehoods by the roots, sometimes as
painful an experience as a trip to the dentist for root canal work, as
truth itself warns, since HURT is found there, hiding-in-plain-sight in
TRUTH. Adam's lies, and the reason for his madness will explain why
Earthlings can never become fully EVOLVED concerning the matter of
their origin until they learn to LOVE EVE, and stop believing that she
initiated the original temptation, as the word EVOLVE has been telling
us, in Lexigram, for such a long, weary time. This is not some man-
ufactured promotion for Women's Liberation, but a long buried truth
even ERA supporters have thus far not listed to with the inner EAR.
After the Fall, English remained, but in a much less pure form of
pattern and tone, and was no longer "sung" or chanted (remember
incantations ?) in its original rhythms and vibrating notes, until the
symbolic building of the Tower of Babel, at which time it disappeared
entirely into the mass subconscious, remaining dormant until, by Di-
vine Will, it was slowly and gradually resurrected in the Celtic region
of Earth. It's part of the great mystery of English that NOTE is TONE,
and vice versa, because MUSIC was once the SUM total of all that was.
The word MUSIC itself tells you that, does it not ?
The Master of Music and the English language, the Master of the
MUSES, who knew of its dormancy and eventual destined resurrection
was one whose Egyptian identity was Hermes Thoth. He was also the

-- 500 of 676 --

LEXIGRAMS * 437
Master of Mathematics and, indeed, the word SUM hides within the
word MUSES, as harmoniously revealing as other Lexigram secret
codes. And, of course, since Hermes THOTH was sometimes called
the god of Thought," it's only natural that the word THOUGHT
should contain his name.
A brief and deliberate musical digression back into the sister of
Lexigrams, numerology. Since we're speaking of music, a pianolas
88 keys; 88 adds to 16. The meaning of the Compound Number 16,
given on Page 254, accurately describes the tragic fall of the Music of
the Spheres, as once channeled through the pure tones and rhythms of
primordial English. 16 reduces to 7, and 7 is the number of Neptune,
the planet ruling music in astrology. 7 is also the spiritual number of
higher enlightenment, as explained in the chapter about numerology.
There are seven notes in the musical scale. And . . "Music hath
charms to soothe a savage breast." Have I said that before ? Quite
probably I have. Important truths always bear considerable repetition
before they take root and flower into illumination.
I find I'm spiraling higher mentally, and can't quite stop yet.
NEPTUNE, astrology's ruling planet of music, contains TUNE. There
are 44 black keys and 44 white keys on a piano — 44 black (or
negative) keys and 44 white (or positive) keys needed to create the
notes and chords of perfect harmony (likewise true of the perfect
blending of all positive-negative polarities in elecricity, man and
woman, etc., and these 44 black and 44 white keys add to that total of
88 I just mentioned. Keys — think. Why call them that ? Because
they are keys to the codes of wisdom. Are KEYS codes ? YES ! The
Lexigram answers the question.
Yes, 44 negative and 44 positive "keys" add to 88. Just look at all
those 4s and 8s ! Remember what was said about these fated numbers
in the numerology chapter. But they finally reduce to the spiritual 7.
(44 plus 44 equal 88 . . . and 88 adds to 16 . . . which reduces to 7. )
On the way to the enlightenment of the spiritual number 7 is the
danger threatened by the Compound Number 16 (read again. its

-- 501 of 676 --

438 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
meaning on Page 254), the warning of "a fall from a high place." It
can be avoided if the LOGICAL MAGIC OF NUMEROLOGICAL coun-
sel is heeded. Back then, it was not. Lexigrams tell us that anything
NUMEROLOGICAL contains MAGIC and is LOGICAL, because the
word Lexigrams the revelation of its own mystery.
By the way, the three words Tower of Babel possess a numero
logical value of 18, which is surely "logical" when you read the analysis
of the number 18. Of course, 18 reduces to the powerful single num-
ber 9, and we know that 9 represents both the beginning and the end.
So, if the beginning holds the end within it, then the end holds the
beginning within it. "I am Alpha and Omega," spoke the Nazarene,
offering a great truth in the form of a riddle to those of his time. And
to us.
All right, now we'll return from our musical saga, our spiraled
hegira initiated by the explosion of a few simple Lexigrams, and con-
tinue the story of the demise of this once fair language — English.
I mentioned in an earlier chapter that the Socratic method of
teaching consists of asking questions, since no one can teach you any-
thing; they can only help you remember what your Third Eye already
knows. So let's get Socratic for a moment. First, before continuing
our Tower of Babel story, I'd like you to "remember" something. Be-
cause the word MEMORY contains the words MORE ME you'll regain
more of the you-of-you as you remind yourself — RE-MIND yourself
(change the thought forms in your mind) to remember an important
truth. Think about it while you re-mind yourself in quiet, calm con-
templation, and realize that CONTEMPLATION whispers to you of its
reward — spiritual ELATION. See it hiding there, like a secret prom-
ise to you ?
What I'm requesting you to remember is that when English was
the pure and musical language spoken (sung) on this planet in the
beginning, there was NO TIME on Earth. You should have channeled
that from your CONTEMPLATION, since the word itself tells you

-- 502 of 676 --

LEXIGRAMS * 439
clearly by its own Lexigram that there was NO TIME when someone
decided to TEMPT someone with that delectable, delicious apple. The
reason there was no Time is explained in the next chapter. Do you see
the words "no time" and "tempt" winking their star sign codes at you
from "contemplation" ? Or twinkling. No difference. TWINKLING
contains WINKING.
Aside from the enigma of illusionary Time explained in Chapter
9, what you need to k-now now (omitting the k temporarily) is that
the original English language, bruised and battered as it already was
after the Fall, was further split, fragmented, cut and sliced into a myr-
iad of alphabets, symbols and speech patterns during the period of the
Tower of Babel — and humans have been "babbling" to each other
ever since, — with a lot of "sound and fury, signifying nothing," as
poet Will Shakespeare wisely observed. Even wiser was his counsel of
"The first thing we do, let's kill all the lawyers." I'm sliding away from
my subject again. Sorry, but you see, the word LAWYERS contains
YEARS, and it does sometimes seem as though they've been "babbling"
in courtrooms, waging WARS between prosecution and defense, un-
der-helping and over-charging us for years — yes ? Even the word
LAWYERS chimes in agreeing with our YES. I hasten to add, however,
that three lawyers I know, Arthur Klebanoff and Jerome Perles, of New
York, and Garry Appel, of Denver, Colorado, are exempt from my
frustrated legal lexigramming of the current jest called justice. The
word JUSTICE itself confesses that it's too often, in today's society, a
JEST. It's hard for a word to disguise its flaws under the revealing light
of lexigramming.
I apologize for the legal digression, but you'd best become accus-
tomed to it, because it's a sample of what you'll experience yourself
when you "tune" into this star sign code. You'll see. Just wait.
Before continuing the explanation of why words are "living en-
tities," you may need some sort of a shock absorber, some foundation
of both the laws of physics and metaphysics. I believe the most effec-
tive way to accomplish this is for you to give me your word, druid

-- 503 of 676 --

440 it LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
honor, that you will meditate for several minutes on the following
sentences you've already read in the beginning pages of the previous
"Forgotten Melodies" chapter, before you proceed to read any further.
Promise ? Read them again, and really think about them.
1 refer to these sentences.
Just as there are tones of colors in the Rainbow Spectrum which
can't be seen with physical vision, such as ultraviolet and infrared,
there are colors of tones in the Music of the Spheres which can't be
heard with physical hearing. "In the Beginning," certain sounds pro-
duced differing sets of vibrational frequencies in the ethers. Some of
these were of such low frequency that they formed particles of what
we call "matter," or physical substance.
There would be no Light, as we know it, without minute specks
of matter in the ethers to reflect it.
There is an intimate connection between color and sound and all
other expressions of life. Sound is on a lower level of the scale, and
comes just above the form and substance oj matter. Consequently,
sound is the intermediary between the higher level of abstract ideas in
the Mind — and concrete form.
Sound is capable of molding the ethers into shapes, and through
these shapes, the corresponding power of the Mind (especially the
Minds of our Creators) is able to make an impression on the ethers which
can manifest into physical matter.
Have you read the foregoing several times, and memorized it ?
Good, then we may continue.
Following the Tower of Babel language cataclysm (which very
nearly contains "asylum," except for the u, so perhaps it should be
spelled "catuclysm" — we still have to watch for distortion of spelling)
— following this murder of the music of English, a major cosmic event of
vast importance to Earth and Earthlings transpired.

-- 504 of 676 --

LEXIGRAMS * 441
Because the destruction of the rhyme, rhythms and musical tones
of primordial English inflicted such severe damage to universal syn-
chronicity, short circuiting as it did the former harmonious communi-
cation between Earthlings, our Creators divinely manifested the wee
nature spirits, called druids by the Celtic people, with a lower-case d,
who were and still are quite real entities — also shy and quiet.
Remember ... in the Beginning, our Creators spoke certain
sounds which produced differing sets of vibrational frequencies in the
ethers. Some of these were of such low frequency that they formed particles
of what we call rriatter or physical substance.
In this manner were the tiny word druids created.
Many Indian tribes called their "god" by the name Manitou. But
the Algonquian Indians were the first to employ the name Manitou.
Manitous were conceived by them as nature spirits, of both good and evil
influence. This will take on a most important meaning in a few pages.
Remember it. And so, the tiny word druids may also be called elves,
sprites or manitous. (They never like capitals, always lower case,
since they don't want to call attention to themselves.) But the word is
spelled wrong in the dictionary. For numerological (magical and log-
ical, remember ?) reasons, both Manitou and manitou must be spelled
with two n's . . . as in Mannitou . . . mannitou and mannitous. This,
gives mannitou (and Mannitou, the "god" of some tribes) a vibration
of 33 — and gives the plural mannitous a vibration of 36. Both Com-
pound Numbers are supremely appropriate, as you will recognize
by referring to the definition of these particular "double numbers in
Chapter 5.
The nature spirit druids were charged with the sacred mission of
hiding and protecting the Anglo-Saxon alphabet until the preordained
time for it to be resurrected and gradually re-seeded into the mass
collective subconscious of humans. When this occurred the Anglo-
Saxon alphabet began to take a wrong fork in the road, as it were,
twisting itself into several new languages, such as Latin, Greek, Ger-

-- 505 of 676 --

442 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
man, French, Italian and so forth. It took a while for the basic essence
of English speech to return to human consciousness, first incarnating
itself into a form called "Olde English."
It was at this point of a pretzel twist in the English language that
the druids, who possessed (and still do) magic powers bestowed upon
them by their — and our — Creators, multiplied or "cloned" them-
selves in a kind of desperate spiritual and mystical attempt to keep
matters under control. To accomplish this, they mattered themselves,
superimposing themselves on each word, to protect each word from
oblivion, while simultaneously causing it to gradually assume its for-
mer shape and sound.
The druids took over their mission of "mattering" themselves,
cloning themselves and superimposing themselves over individual
words in the Celtic regions where "Olde English" began to reappear:
England, Ireland, Scotland and Wales. After a short time the little
nature spirit words became so hypnotized by and enmeshed within
this mission (much as did our own Spirits when they created flesh
bodies: See Chapter 9) that it became somewhat of a fun game to
them. Losing their perspective, from time to time, like mischievous
small children, they began to spring little unexpected mini-pranks on
humans who "usecj" them — spoke them. When the druids were
spoken (as words) they proceeded to create an action, to materialize,
so to speak, the meaning of the "word spoken," as Earthlings tossed
the little nature spirits into the ethers as sounds. Perhaps, who knows,
they may have felt that this was an added benefit to humans, helping
them to learn the power of the words they spoke, thus gently leading
them back into recalling the primordial purity of the English language.
Now do you understand why it is that the people of England,
Wales, Scotland and Ireland all have their legends and stories of —
their firm belief in — the wee folk, druids, elves, faeries, leprechauns
and the like? Some of them lead humans to pots of gold, some trick
humans by leading them on to an illusionary end of the rainbow —
others sour the cow's milk, cause humans to trip, hit their elbows and

-- 506 of 676 --

LEXIGRAMS * 443
knees sharply. The good wee folk, superimposed upon harmonious
words, bring bundles of good luck. The unfortunate, sacrificing wee
folk who volunteered to "matter" and superimpose themselves upon
disharmonious and ugly words carry out their mission in a polarized
version, bringing nasty little annoyances to the humans who toss them
out into the air without thinking as unpleasant sounds, likely landing,
as often as not, on their tiny heads, which would naturally cause them
to be occasionally cranky.
You still don't believe these nature spirit druid words possess
magical powers ? You think I'm jesting, trying to be amusing, telling
you faerie stories ? Remember the scientific evidence of the
Eidophone in Chapter 7, "Forgotten Melodies" ? Read it again. Now.
Then read it a third time. Think.
Truly, I am not jesting, trying to be amusing — or telling you
faerie stories — although these true stories are, admittedly, about fa-
eries, nature spirits or sprites and wee folk. I'm perfectly serious. As
serious as James Barrie and Lewis Carroll were in writing Peter Pan,
Alice in Wonderland and Through the Looking Glass.
You didn't know these books are serious, as well as charming and
imaginative ? Oh, they are, they are ! It just takes a long time for
adults to learn to read between the lines of such works and discover
the real messages here. When Peter and Wendy and Michael and John
were flying around the room they were levitating, you see. When
Alice grew taller, then shorter, she was visiting varipus astral levels.
When Peter spoke of always remaining a child, and never growing up,
he was expressing the principles explained in the following chapter,
"Physical Immortality." And so on . . . and on . . . and on. If you read
these books again, with your Third Eye open and your sixth sense
singing, you'll see them in a completely new light.
What I'm relating to you here is as serious and as real as anything
else I've ever written, whether it's that Aries is impulsive, Cancer is
moody or Libra is indecisive, etc. — all of which I presume you've

-- 507 of 676 --

444 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
found to be true and reliable. Trust me. Mostly, trust yourself. Ask
your own Higher S-elf. To repeat my own s-elf and the Galilean for
perhaps the one hundredth time in this book, "Let those who have
eyes, see — let those who have ears, hear." (And let all others soon
become enlightened.)
Speaking of yourS-elf and myS-elf, you've probably wondered
while reading this book why I frequently spell these identification
words in such an odd way. The druids very much like it. It makes
their small hearts happy. You see, they have come to think of them-
selves as nearly human, these druid words, and they refer to each
other as we do. They think of "themselves" as myself, himself, herself,
yourself and ourselves, too, just like us. But unlike humans, the word
druids are only too painfully aware of the need for separation within
these words — and the reason for the need.
The reason is the Serpent Mystery. "Be ye therefore wise as ser-
pents, and harmless as doves." "Your eyes shall be opened, and ye
shall be as gods." (Third Eyes.) The thing is, there are two "good"
serpents and one "bad" serpent, a total of three, and it all goes back to
the much distorted and twisted story of Genesis. The distinction be-
tween and the identification of the three serpents is related in a later
book. All you need to understand about it now is that it's the "bad"
serpent who has tried to keep hidden the truth within these oft-used
pronouns: ourselves, himself, yourself, herself and myself. Not to
mention your Higher Self.
Let's first texigram the word "sprite," since it's just another term
for the wee folk or nature spirits (druids). SPRITE is very close to the
word SPIRIT, is it not ? SPRITE, then, TIES itself tightly to the word
SPIRIT. Sprite and spirit are also closely tied and related in a mean-
ingful way in numerology, the sister discipline of Lexigrams, SPRITE
being represented by the Compound Number 23, and SPIRIT being
represented by the Compound Number 19, in their vibration to
Higher Power. Consequently, to borrow a phrase from Abraham Lin-
coln, it is altogether fitting and proper for a sprite to be a spirit. Let's

-- 508 of 676 --

LEXIGRAMS * 445
continue spiraling. We'll soon enough get back to that serpent, coiled
there and waiting for us to expoSe his attempted deception over the
past eonS. Note the pronoun — his.
Now, since a sprite is an elf — and a sprite is also a spirit (some-
times called nature spirits, without the e) — and since humans possess
a Spirit (which is the Higher Self or Overself), then it logically follows
that, just as the tiny sprite-druid words are elves — the Spirits of
humans may also be called elves. Let's image, then, and quite truly so,
that each tiny druid word has a spirit of its own — and to differentiate
it from a human Spirit, the spirits of the druids are spelled "sprites,"
with a lower case s. Therefore, you possess a Spirit, and the little word
druids possess a "sprite." And both Spirits and sprites are elves.
Both kinds of elves — nature spirits and human Spirits — possess
magical powers, do they not ? Yes, they do.
Webster: elf or sprite; nature spirit, druid: exercising magical
powers.
And so, the you-of-you, the Higher Angel of your-s-elf is, in real-
ity, a most powerful ELF. Here is one of those "coincidences" which is
not really a "coincidence" but a typical tongue-in-cheek little code-
trick of the words druids.
Your brain, as I've already pointed out in a previous chapter, is
actually an electrical device containing more than 40 billion electric
cells, each with a faint electromagnetic field, continually sending out
weak signals in the radio part of the sound spectrum, carrying a fre-
quency of between 1 and 30 hertz. The signals from your heart like-
wise lie in this faint electromagnetic field.
Remember these words — once again: "In the Beginning, certain
sounds produced differing sets of vibrational frequencies in the ethers
- and some of these were of such low frequency that they were capable
of forming particles of matter or physical substance. (The way elves
were created!)

-- 509 of 676 --

446 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
The low frequency field can possibly be used for external control
of the mind and plausibly also perhaps be used to plant perceptions in
the brain (seeding by Gurus ?). Since the Earth Herself generates a
faint electromagnetic signal in the very low 1 to 30 hertz range, certain
natural conditions may trigger responses in humans .... and most
certainly "creates" or produces the "physical matter" of plants, trees
and flowers.
Now for the "coincidence," which is not a coincidence, but one of
the little "jokes" of the word druids. Do you know what science calls
this Extra low Frequency field when scientists refer to it among them-
selves ? They've named it after its initials — ELF!! Most appropriate,
don't you agree ? 1 just heard Nahtan whispering into my inner ear
"Quite r
By the way, since we're speaking of the Higher Angel of the S-elf,
the word ANGEL, when you switch the letters around, is ANGLE and,
as Einstein's Higher S-elf knew, in channeling through Albert by way
of the extra low frequency of ELF the wonderland of mathematical
relativity, all reality depends entirely upon the relative ANGLE from
which it's viewed in the cosmos ... in its relative relationship — or
ANGLE— to space and that great imposter, Time. Time and space.
Relativity. RELATIVITY contains REAL, so what is REAL is relative to
its ANGLE. No wonder ANGLE is ANGEL ! Angels can help us judge
what is real in any given time or space, past, present or future.
Mentioning the Wonderland of Einsteinic Relativity spiraled me
into Lewis Carroll's magical tales, which spiraled me into the heroine
of them, the little girl who inspired Lewis Carroll's Alice in Wonderland,
Through the Looking Glass and all his other books — an actual little girl
of whom he was very fond, named Alice. Without Alice, we would
never have known about the Mad Hatter, the Red Queen or the White
Queen, and we would never have heard about the time when "'twas
brillig, and the slithy toves did gyre and gimble in the wabe." Since
Alice was the author's muse, it was quite logical, then, for LEWIS
CARROLL to hold within both his heart and his name . . . ALICE.

-- 510 of 676 --

LEXIGRAMS * 447
Before we leave her, there's one more thing. The word druids have
asked me to send all of you a special secret code message — personally
from them to you, using Lewis Carroll's words:
In spring, when woods are getting green
We'll try and tell you what we mean
In summer, when the days are long
Perhaps you 11 understand the song ....
What does Alice have to do with the serpent we were about to
expose ? Absolutely nothing. But I keep telling you that's what hap-
pens over and over with Lexigrams. When you start to get lost a
dozen times a sentence, a hundred times a page, a thousand times a
day when you're writing or speaking, on lexigramming detours of
your own, you'll forgive me. When you experience it yourself. Ah,
yes, yourS-elf . . . back to that sneaky snake.
Good grief ! SNEAK is SNAKE and SNAKE4S SNEAK ! How very
marvelously appropriate. While the "good serpents" (remember,
there are both kinds) have been coiling into words like wiSdorh,
bleSS, Serene and so forth, what he (oh, yes, definitely he) has been
doing for so many centuries, sneaking and snaking around throughout
the English language, is driving the tiny word druids bonkers, by in-
SiSting on planting the letter S, representing him (as it also does in
"good" words, the good serpents) anywhere he can; in particular,
sneaking into the middle of all those identity words, such as: ourselves,
yourselves, himself, herself, yourself, myself and even your Higher Self
or Overself.
Until the exposure on these pages, he's gotten away with it.
Surely you can now see clearly what those words have always in-
tended to convey to you. SanS that Sneaky Serpent S, those words are
NOT (give it caps) single words. They are double words. Removing
the S, they become our elves . . . your elves ... her elf .. . your elf . . .
my elf . . . and your Higher Elf or Over Elf.
Now let me demonstrate how our teeny-tiny friends, the word

-- 511 of 676 --

448 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
druids or druid words, whichever, reveal some surprises about current
grammar. Obviously, the word "herself (herS-elf) actually refers to
her elf Right ? Right. Stay with me. But it is poor actual grammar to
say himself, since it can't be him elf That's ridiculous. Although, as
we've seen, it's correct to say herself, because it means her elf. Don't
leave me yet. I'm just warming up to a revelation. All right, so we've
correctly and properly tossed the grammatically incorrect masculine
"himself (him elf) out of the druid dictionary for excellent cause —
leaving in the druid dictionary the feminine "herself" (her elf) for
equally excellent cause.
By the same rules, we can't use the feminine "sheself (she elf),
but that doesn't matter because we still have one feminine identifica-
tion we can use: herself and her elf. However, what about the men,
what about the masculine elves ? We can't use himself (him elf), as we
already know. And clearly it would be dreadful to use hisself (hisS-
elf). Our human wordsmiths will not permit such a gross usage.
Therefore, the masculine sex has been exiled from elfdom by both the
word druids and the human wordsmiths.
Because we know that these small nature-spirit-sprites are much
smarter than our dictionary compiler human wordsmiths, that they
are just and wise druids who were given a sacred mission by our
Creators, they must have good cause for having banished the mas-
culine sex from the language paradise of Elfdom, a reason lost in an-
tiquity, and for-eons-forgotten. It will be remembered in a later book,
and the shattering truth will finally win a victory over our so long
entrenched patriarchal society, not making women superior, but har-
moniously equal. The PATRIARCH system is a TRAP, as the word
admits.
However, the feminine sex hasn't entirely escaped "the mark of
the beast," the negative serpent "S." It's not there in "he" but it is there
in "She." And it's there in both "hers" and "his" Also note that the
serpent "S" coils around "maSculine," not around "feminine." And
that the maSculine "himself and "hisself are not valid elf words.

-- 512 of 676 --

LEXIGRAMS * 449
Remaining with the "druid log book" or the druid dictionary of
ElFdom for a moment longer, notice that the word "themselves" is also
incorrect elf grammar. One can't very well' remove the serpent "S"
from themS-elves, and be left with "them elves." There's a good rea-
son for that, and if you meditate on it for a while, you'll see it.
Since the Fall and the later symbolic Tower of Babel language
cataclysm, English has not yet returned to its original musical purity,
although it has progressed to a fair measure of its former power, unre-
alized by EARTHLINGS, who still possess the power to SING the lan-
guage in their very name, but are presently too filled with HATE to
HEAR the Music of the Spheres. There are lots of STAR SIGN codes to
make a wish on sparkling from the word EARTHLINGS, in addition
to these five.
Yet two of these five present a happy bit of knowledge, telling us
that each EARTHLING is an individual STAR SIGN himself or herself \
>Do you see STAR SIGN hiding-in-plain-sight within EARTHLINGS ?
Yes, hiding in plain SIGHT !
Men and women have thus far not heeded even the fraction of
former power still available to them in the continually evolving En-
glish language. Further, they fail to notice the negative side of that
power, as they speak thoughtlessly. Too many people today use
\
WORDS as a SWORD to wound each other, by switching the last letter
i to the first, and the first to the last. They, will continue to do so, in
some degree, until they fully recognize that the words of the English
language were meant to fly through the mind on WINGS (another
word hiding the secret that words can SING) until they realize that
English (which also contains SING, as we've already noticed) is the
only one of all LANGUAGES which can be SUNG in the harmonious
chords of the Music of the Spheres.
Did our Creators actually charge the nature spirit druids with
such a MISSION as we've discussed ? Any mission must be carried
out by those who commit NO SIN (at least no serious sin . . . mini-

-- 513 of 676 --

450 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
pranks don't count) as the word itself reveals. So, did our Creators*
give such a mission to the druids ? Yes, they DID, for the very word!
DRUID contains the message that they DID — to RID the world of the
babble of confusion. WORLD contains LORD, plus the inverted dou-
ble pyramid letter W, which has a vital meaning of its own, as an
inverted double pyramid.
Earthlings in the Aquarian Age must learn (and one must EARN
learning — do you see why ?) — they must learn to stop using
WORDS as a SWORD, and begin to realize that each single WORD they
speak is, in reality, a magic wand, as powerful as the ROD of Moses,
when they discover how to use them properly. Remove the mystical
secret of the inverted double pyramid '¥' from WORD, and you are
left with a wand or a ROD as potent as Aaron's rod, the one he lent his
brother, Moses, to convince the Pharaoh to "let his people go."
Even the plural form of WORDS loses its power to become a
SWORD and hurt when humans cease to re-verse it into a word that^
doesn't rhyme with happiness and compassion, but with pain and
misery. Each single word is a verse that must be molded to rhyme
with the harmony of the UniVERSE, the one true verse, so that the lost
chords of the Music of the Spheres may once more, like the voice of
the turtle, be heard throughout the land.
Let's remain with UNIVERSE a spiral longer. The word contains
such a clear definition of what constitutes it. First, the most appar-
ent. Universe or Uni-verse means one verse, since Uni is one. One
verse signifies the Music of the Spheres, with everyone and everything
singing in perfect harmony. UNIVERSE also contains, in addition to
that one (or Uni) VERSE, these words: SUN . . . VENUS . . . NURSE . . .
SEER and US.
In astrology, the SUN represents the life force, while VENUS
represents Love, the most important word in the entire English lan-
guage. What more does one need, other than Life and Love ? The
word SUN in UNIVERSE has another layered, more deeply hidden

-- 514 of 676 --

LEXIGRAMS * 45
1
meaning, referring mysteriously to our lost Sun. (You'll read about
what happened to it in Chapter 9.) The word NURSE gently chides
the patriarchs, reminding them that She (our Mother Who art in
Heaven) still lovingly and protectively NURSES US, as she does all
humans in all UNIVERSES. The word SEER means that She also sees
into a future when Her children will "come home" to Her, remember-
ing when they were nursed and nurtured by Her infinite Love.
UNIVERSE also contains EVEN, or perfect balance and harmony.
Likewise, EVE, another reminder to open the Third Eye to the truth of
that sneaky serpent and the apple.
The word VERSE alone gives us SEE ("let those who have eyes" —
Third Eyes — see) . . . and, again, SEER. Yes, our poets, those who
write verses channeled by their Spirits, are our true prophets. We
need them now far more than we need our scientists. Those who
write VERSES are our SEERS, who will gradually, with the help of the
word druids, mold the English language back into its pure and pri-
mordial shape and form . . . and music. For what are verses without
music to sing of them — and what is music without its melodies
emphasized by verse ?
"In the beginning was the Word. . .""And God spoke the word. .
."
"The Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us." (The latter quote
delves into very deep waters, and can't be interpreted in this present
work.) The word, the word, the word! In the beginning, there was a
Word ... a Sound ... a chord of Music . . . capable of creating and
manifesting matter out of the ethers. The Word of Creation. The lost
chord. Obviously, an awesomely powerful word-elf . . . (Extra Low
Frequency sound — ELF, remember ?)
As the tiny druid nature spirits were assigned the task, by our and
their Creators, to guard and protect the English language down
through countless eons of Time, they were also given the most sacred
and holy of missions ... to guard the Word of Creation Itself from
Earthlings as yet unenlightened, who might use it for unthinkable
destruction. They have performed their mission, these tiny word

-- 515 of 676 --

452 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
druids, and kept this word hidden from even the most illuminated
Avatars and Adepts. While gently and gradually seeding into humans
the English language . . . they have done the opposite with the Word
. . . keeping it buried . . . revealing to humans all words but this . . .
one at a time . . . over the centuries.
Where have the druids protected the Word ? The answer is per-
haps a most profound mystery, and as I sit here typing this page, I tell
you truly, druid honor, that I have not yet channeled whether or not
to reveal it in this book. I promise I shall, either way, when 1 ap-
proach the end of this chapter. Of course, the geographical location
of it is only the initial step of a long and secret alchemy formula re-
quired to decode the Word, which may be revealed only to two once
"lost angels" who have once more become immortal. (See Chapter
9.)
Lexigram spiraling can result in a brief, lightning flash mental-
astral trip, or a long journey back into the truth buried within your
sleeping subconscious. The ones we've been using as examples so far
have taken us on relatively short trips. Shall we take a much longer
one by spiraling a particular nine-letter word ? Yes, let's. Because the
word I have in mind is one which is currently causing a vast amount of
tragic controversy all over the world, in both a religious and a medical
sense. Abortions.
We'll Lexigram the plural of the word, not the singular, since
we're going to try to discover if the word will lead us into illumination,
by giving us a reliable cosmic answer to the pros and cons of the issue
— and that issue isn't relevant to one single abortion (for which there
may be various justifications), but to abortions, plural, as they are
presently being attacked by the Right to Lifers and defended by those.
who champion women's rights over their own bodies.
Are abortions morally defensible — or a sin against defenseless
human life? Are abortions murders ? As always, the word itself
posesses the answer, as it defines its own true meaning, hidden within

-- 516 of 676 --

LEXIGRAMS it 453
the alphabetical letters comprising it. The word "abortions" offers us a
coded solution to the raging abortion issue, seeded by the recent
emancipation of women. Some of you will be greatly comforted by
the answer given so clearly in the words Lexigram; others of you will
be resentful of that answer. Speaking to the latter group, please keep
in mind that the answer has no relation whatsoever to my own per-
sonal feelings, prejudice or lack of prejudice. The answer comes di-
rectly from the wisdom of the word druids. If, by now, you still refuse
to acknowledge the evidence of their power, you'd best skip the next
several pages, whichever side of the abortion controversy you're on.
Conversely, if you have, by now, learned to respect the word druids
and their sacred mission involving the English language, you'll find
"abortions" to be new evidence of it.
One more request. If you're a Right to Lifer, and become of-
fended at any particular point along the way of our spiraling, stay with
us. You hate being called prejudiced, don't you ? The only way you
can prove you don't deserve such an insulting label is to first pay close
attention, with an open mind, to the counsel offered by the word
druids, and immediately following it, by astrology — and then make
your decision, based on all the information available, not just part of
it. This request is meant for Catholic readers too.
The Lexigram of ABORTIONS does not quibble about the answer to
this issue. Its revelation is quite emphatic, leaving no room for doubt
or dispute.
ABORTIONS
It lexigrams into the following words:
IT IS TORN. IT IS NOT BORN. IT IS A ROBOT.
A ROBOT IS NOT BORN - NO SIN
IS ABORTION A SIN ? NO. IT IS NOT A SIN.
The Zebra Rule applies.
Read the Zebra Rule again. When a negative word appears and

-- 517 of 676 --

454 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
the letters N and — or N and O and T also appear, as negating
words, while the letters Yjand E and S do not appear — it means that
the person (or word) will have been accused of whatever the negative
word implies, but is not guilty.
Catholics and Right to Lifers, stay with us, please. We're going to
spiral higher to discover just why this Lexigram says what it does.
That's the real value in Lexigrams, to use them to rise to a higher
consciousness through further thought spiraling, based on the initial
Lexigram revelation. That's where lexigramming becomes an art.
First let's spiral into the pages of good old Noah Webster's rule
book, which usually does not contradict the druid dictionary (it just
doesn't reveal as much as the latter). Webster has the following com-
ments to help us define further what our Abortions Lexigram called
the entity which is aborted: a Robot.
Robot: a machine that looks like a human being, and per-
forms various acts of a human being, but is without human
emotions. A mechanism guided by automatic controls.
Webster [Italics mine]
The word druids do not err; they had some reason for hiding the
term robot within the word abortions to describe the entity being
aborted. The words infant, baby, child and even fetus were missing
when the word abortions appeared in the language.
Does the Webster definition of "robot" relate to the fetus in the
womb ? Yes, it does. The fetus looks like a human, and performs
various acts of a human while immersed in fluid in the uterus, but is
yet without human emotions, and is guided, most definitely, by
automatic controls, those controls being in the hands of a particular
Spirit or Higher S-elf, who has decided to build this house, this flesh
temple (the body is the Temple of the soul — and Spirit — and Mind),
and to take up residence when it's completed. The Spirit, therefore, is
the Landlord -Owner of the house or flesh temple being constructed,

-- 518 of 676 --

LEXIGRAMS * 455
and the parents are the architects, yet always using the blueprint of the
Spirit who ordered the building of this Temple of Flesh.
Now let's spiral further, to penetrate higher truth, which leads us
into both mystical or spiritual truth founded in the Christian Holy
Works . . . and astrology, the mother of astronomy (not the other way
around), religion, mathematics and all science.
The "miracle of birth." What is it, precisely, this miracle ? It is
the trembling awe felt by the mother and onlookers at that sacred
instant when the infant draws its first breath of life, that magical mo-
ment when what has been, in effect, a "water-breathing creature," is
miraculously transformed and transmuted into an air-breathing hu-
man — and a new life is born. Life renewing itS-elf again.
As medical science recognizes, tremendous biological, chemical
and physiological changes occur in the organism called the infant at
that instant of its drawing the first breath of life. Turning to the Scrip-
tures, do they not refer to God saying "And 1 shall breathe the breath
of Life into them . . .
?"
Spiraling into astrology, it is at this moment that the more than
40 billion electromagnetic cells in the brain are programmed, like a
computer (of which the human brain is the ultimate prototype), by the
invisible, yet powerful cosmic frequencies — or light waves — ema-
nating from the Sun, the Moon and the planets — in a pattern com-
mensurate with their position in space, and their mathematically and
astronomically measured aspects to one another at that magnetically
charged instant of Time — so that the human thus born will feel a
powerful electromagnetic "tug" (which can be accepted or rejected
through the holy gift of Free Will) each tim£ in the future when the
Sun, Moon and planets either conflict or harmonize with their brain-
computer-programmed positions in "the sky" at birth.
Spiraling next into metaphysics, it is likewise at this magical in-
stant that the Spirit and its individual Mind and Soul, from which it is

-- 519 of 676 --

456 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
never separated (and which always remain outside the body) connect
with or lock-in to the body temple of the now human infant this Holy
Trinity ordained to be constructed approximately nine months earlier.
The circle shape is
symbolic only. Your
Spirit is formed and
shaped like your
flesh body which
was created in its
likeness
flesh body
Third Eye
astral
The three symbolic circles comprising the upper pyramid dire
never separated, either during the life of the flesh body "puppet" or
after its death.
And so, you see, the entity called "the fetus" by medical science
and "a robot" by Lexigrams, is not human — is not alive — until this
instant of the first breath when the brain is programmed, when the
first "breath of life" occurs. This is, by the way, why your horoscope
or nativity is not correctly calculated without the astrologer's tedious

-- 520 of 676 --

ILEXIGRAMS "
• 457
ork of rectifying the exact time of birth, the instant of the first breath,
which is seldom the same time given on the birth certificate or by
"mother's memory." Since astrologers who have mastered the art and
science of rectification are so very rare ... it creates a problem. Per-
sonally, I will neither calculate nor interpret a nativity I have not been
able to rectify to this exact instant of actual life. Even though 1 am one
who has mastered rectification, it takes sometimes only a few hours if
I'm lucky, up to several days or weeks or longer with some nativities
to accomplish rectification reliably. Each chart is an individual
challenge.
The abortion controversy is like so many things on this planet. It
concentrates with such intensity upon the flesh that it ignores the
Spirit. So much ado is there about the mirror-reversed prologues of
birth and unnecessary death (see Chapter 9), and so little attention
given to the great drama in between.
True, it's very sad to lovingly build a temple that a Spirit, Mind
and Soul intend to possess, a sanctuary woven of tender, gentle
dreams, and then, for any one of a variety of reasons, see that dream of
a body temple disappear. But it isn't the end of the world. It's agoniz-
ing, but it isn't the end — of anything.
There are few experiences more emotionally devastating than the
accidental miscarriage of the flesh "house" a deeply desired infant is
intended to occupy. It's one of the most painful trials a man and
woman who love must occasionally endure. But it would be so much
less hurtful if they could realize that, when the grief of disappointment
has healed, another flesh body temple may be designed and built, a
new "house," constructed with the same blueprint — to be the resi-
dence of the very same and equally disappointed trinity of the Spirit,
Mind and Soul who, when fused with the new body temple at its first
breath, will create the very same human infant wrongly believed to
have been lost. If only such bereaved parents realized this, they
would be deeply comforted by the comprehension that there is no real

-- 521 of 676 --

458 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
cause for grief — except the waiting period of another nine months,
surely a short span as Earth time goes.
I won't invade the parents' privacy by giving their names, but I
know a couple in Ohio who were ecstatic when their first child was
conceived. They looked forward to the birth of their baby with such
joy and happiness. Then, a few weeks before the delivery date, the
mother was told by her doctors that the "baby" had died — that she
was carrying a dead infant — robot, remember. There are no druid
words in the English language to describe the agony and courage of
both parents, especially the mother. Who can find words to describe
what she felt during her first long and painful labor, knowing that, at
the end of the pain, there would be no joy ... no life. ?
This brave mother bore her heartache and physical pain, suffer-
ing her great soul test alone. Not even her equally heartbroken hus-
band could conceive of what it was really like for her. I told her that
their baby, a female "robot," was not dead; that because of their love- 1
and courage, she would become a miracle baby very soon . . . that she |
(her Spirit) had changed her mind, and wanted a different birth date,
for complex astrological reasons . . . that she would return to them if
J
their desire (electromagnetic energy) remained strong enough. She
believed me. She quickly learned to know this, not just "hope" it.
A year later, on the same day as the earlier delivery, she gave birth
to a beautiful, healthy baby girl. Their miracle baby returned. The
very same baby (Spirit, Mind and Soul) they had thought was lost, H
with the same generally designed body temple (horoscope), with only
a couple of minor architectural (planetary) improvements, and the
same colored glass windows (the eyes are the windows of the soul).
All the little girl had done (her Spirit) was to decide to arrive a little i
later, that's all.
This sort of miracle has manifested hundreds of thousands of |
times, all over the world, and it would manifest an even greater num- i
ber of times if the parents of a "miscarried" or otherwise thought to be I
lost flesh body temple . . . recognized the truth.

-- 522 of 676 --

LEXIGRAMS * 459
To plan for a visit from someone very dear, and then to learn that
the visit must be postponed indefinitely, is certainly cause for deep
disappointment, but ... no one died. And the more intensely one
images the postponed visit occurring, the sooner the happy event will
manifest. How long ? When ?
When is the least important part of the knowing that a baby — or
anyone else — who has temporarily disappeared from your life will
return. If people who are separated could only comprehend this
truth, the time of their coming together again would arrive so much
sooner. The delays of reunion are caused by failing to recognize the
in-significance of when.
That's another facet of Lexigrams.- "Insignificant," in the druid
dictionary, does not possess the same meaning as not significant. IN-
SIGNIFICANT should give you a Lexigram SIGN that something is
significant within. When you've mastered the word alchemy of the in-
significance of when, you can simply ordain the "when" of the event.
Clocks and calendars aren't in control of it. You are. That may be the
greatest thing you'll ever -learn. Next to Love, which comes first . . .
always.
It takes a while to get the hang of it, of learning how to read the
druid dictionary correctly, but once you do the Force will be with you
. . . forever. Once mastered, it's like swimming or riding a bicycle.
You never forget how.
I said that there are few things sadder (for the yet unenlightened)
as the involuntary loss of a deeply desired infant's partially con-
structed body temple (house), before the new human life has had a
chance to occupy it. However, there are many things sadder and
more devastating to life itself than the deliberate abortion of an un-
wanted "house" which prevents a robot from becoming alive and hu-
man at the first breath — such as the hideous nightmare of child abuse
unwanted children suffer, to name but one of them.
Destroying body temples is not a good thing. It's obviously

-- 523 of 676 --

460 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
wasteful, as senseless as building a new home, then tearing it down
before anyone has had a chance to live in it. (The death of adults is an
equally wasteful and senseless destruction of "houses" or body tem-
ples. See Chapter 9.) Such abortive destruction of a robot, of a tem-
ple-under-construction, may perhaps correctly carry the stigma of
-vandalism, but it is not murder.
The robot or flesh temple thus destroyed was only intended to be
the residence of a human at the time of fusing with a particular Spirit,
Mind and Soul, who would have been spending all their time outside
the house (body temple) in any case. When the intended residence
becomes unavailable by being torn down (aborted) these three insep-
arables simply ordain the building of a new one, sometimes in the
same location, using the same parental architects — at other times in a
different neighborhood, city, state or country, using other architects
— entirely depending on the degree of desire (electromagnetic energy)
of the parents.
Most people aren't aware that when a man and woman mate a
powerful auric light is sent out into the ethers, visible to millions of
trinities of Spirits, Minds and Souls awaiting a birth channel. If the
mating occurs for no reason but lust, the auric colors of the spectrum
are muddy and indistinct, a rust-red color, and attract, as a birth chan-
nel, a Spirit who is not highly evolved but a spirit who, nevertheless,
deserves his or her spin on the Karmic wheel of life.
When a man and woman mate in love and tenderness the bril-
liant auric light projected by such a trembling, ecstatic union attracts a
much higher evolved Spirit, who chooses this mating as a birth chan-
nel, which is what is meant by a "love child," and does not necessarily
require a piece of paper called a marriage license. Neither Spirits nor
our Creators pay any attention to pieces of paper — since many of
those who possess such a piece of paper mate in lust only. Parental
channels are thus chosen by Spirits awaiting incarnation.
Interesting that LUST is SLUT. It's difficult to determine whether

-- 524 of 676 --

LEXIGRAMS * 461
these two words were deliberately formulated by human wordsmiths
or word druids. Lust describes mating experienced for one partner's
selfish sexual pleasure only.
Sexual union experienced by those who have TAMED each other
before they MATED, as weVe already discussed, is blessed, and need
not be experienced only for the purpose of conceiving. The ecstatic
reward of love is a holy experience, whether or not it results in a
voluntary or involuntary conception. To create new life is a blessing,
but so is the creation of mutual peace and fulfillment.
As for abortions, humans ought to be more concerned with the
Spirit, and less concerned with the flesh temple or body. In the long
run, it would be greatly beneficial to everyone involved, including
future body temples, which, like all houses, would be considerably
improved if designed by enlightened architects, working in harmony
with the Owner- Landlord. It's both sad and ironic that the misguided
Right to Lifers destroy and burn down abortion clinics in retaliation
against those who destroy flesh houses of their own volition, creating
heavy Karma for themselves by this sort of "revenge." Perhaps the
balanced Karma of their own miscarriage of a new life they so
wrongly, cruelly and angrily tried to defend ? That's how the law of
Karma works, in this Incarnation or the next.
Returning from that very long trip initiated by a mere one-word
Lexigram, when the word "abortions" seeded itself — its elf — into
the language as a word druid, it already contained the answer to the
abortion controversy, even before it became an issue.
Remember the Lexigram code of "in-significant" ? Here's an-
other secret. Some of the word druids are disgruntled and disgusted
because human wordsmiths have tacked a "dis" to them, and it sticks
like'glue, refusing to be dis-engaged. They seem quite pleased when I
refer to feelings I have of a very joyous and happy nature by saying I'm
both gusted and gruntled — which means I'm extremely pleased.
That's the meaning of gusted and gruntled, is it not ? Or it should be,

-- 525 of 676 --

462 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
to any thinking human who has studied the druid dictionary. If
pleased is the opposite of displeased, integrated is the opposite of
disintegrated, order is the opposite of disorder and satisfied is the
opposite of dissatisfied, then gusted is the opposite of disgusted and
gruntled is the opposite of disgruntled — to any logical Earthling.
The word druids who were in charge of "gusted" and "gruntled" have
had nothing to do for so long, they're really quite bored, and would
appreciate it if they could become useful again by these words return-
ing to common usage, through your use of them. So, do start describ-
ing your happy feelings and satisfied feelings as gusted and gruntled,
won't you ?
Shall we spiral into a few more Lexigram mentalrastral trips ?
Then we'll lexigram some names together.
Personally, I've found the word "lie" to be the most meaningful
exposure of truth I've discovered in Lexigrams, and I know that
sounds like a contradiction, the ultimate non sequitur. What you
must understand, however, is that the word lie possesses multi-layered
meanings. Some lies are born from (the children of) deliberate decep-
tions. Others are born from (the children of) kindness and considera-
tion. These are sometimes called "little white lies" to save someone's
feelings from being hurt. Like telling a friend you loved the cookies
she baked for you and brought to the hospital, when in reality they
tasted like cardboard, sprinkled with bird seed. Still other "lies" are
born from (the children of) faith and knowing.
For instance, anything you can't see with physical vision — or
can't prove with visible evidence — is considered by some people to
be a lie, if you insist to them it's there and they can't see it. After
whatever it might be finally manifests into matter or beingness,
-whether it's a missing child or any other miracle, the "lie" the believer
was accused of suddenly . . . Abracadabra ! . . . becomes the truth.
The "liar" becomes a prophet.
If you say to a friend "Look at that beautiful rose bush in the front

-- 526 of 676 --

LEXIGRAMS * 463
yard" (you planted the day before) — and no rose bush has yet man-
ifested into "matter" visible to physical eyesight, the friend is likely to
say, or secretly believe, that you're lying. The rose bush might very
well be cheerfully growing there, in an etheric sense, waiting to be
ordained to manifest itself into dense matter, but as long as it's not
visible to the physical vision, pointing to it and insisting that it's really
there is defined by everyone as telling a lie. Just as children, when
they tell their parents about their "imaginary" playmates . . . some-
times tiny faeries and nature spirits who converse and play with them
... are told to "stop lying."
There are more interesting insights about what constitutes a lie or
does not, but as you begin to master Lexigrams, you'll discover them
for yourself.
Here's a small Lexigram of two words, as an initial step to your
comprehension of "lying."
Lexigrams often start rusty wheels turning in your brain. Some
of them may be frustrating when you first calculate them, because they
don't seem to make a bit of sense. But don't stop. Keep spiraling,
and you'll find the answer is always logical, even though it may
be hidden at first until you penetrate the meaning. For example,
why should such a positive word as "believe" contain the word "lie" ?
It's a real stumper -when you're first learning about Lexigrams. But
if you continue to ponder it, you'll be rewarded for your calm
CONTEMPLATION with, as I pointed out earlier, a kind of spiritual
ELATION.
"BELIEVE contains LIVE a LIE. That doesn't seem logical, at first.
The word MIRACLE contains the word LIE also. More confusion.
Why?
Keeping in mind the definitions of "lie" we just considered, real-
ize that MIRACLE also contains the word CLAIM — and so, if you
continue to LIVE A LIE, eventually you'll be able to CLAIM A LIE.
If you BELIEVE, you will eventually manifest a MIRACLE.

-- 527 of 676 --

464 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
Believing (living a lie) is a process that will gradually manifest
invisible etheric concepts, dreams, ideas and ideals — and convictions
— into visible, dense matter. First comes hope, faint and weak. Then
comes belief, much stronger. Next comes faith, and you're almost
there ! At last comes knowing, the real power that makes it happen.
The word KNOW hides the words NOW and WON. So, when you're
able to really KNOW a thing it places you in the Eternal NOW, and
you've WON. (More about the Eternal Now at the end of this
chapter.)
As for BELIEVE lexigramming the word LIVE, some of you may
be wondering why the word LIVE itself is EVIL, spelled backward.
Lots of people have noticed that. Fewer have noticed also that EVIL is
VILE. It's nothing to be concerned about; in fact, it's something to be
ELATED about, when it's been carefully CONTEMPLATED — perhaps
the most important truth revealed by Lexigrams. Because . . . there's
another word in LIVE besides EVIL and VILE . . . and that word is,
again, as we just saw, LIE. This is a perfect example of how you must
train your mind to work with Lexigrams. What does it really mean,
when you penetrate the word live and find the words "evil" and "vile"
and "lie" within it ?
It means that humans, hypnotized by false religious doctrines
and dogmas, believe that to live one must know the vile experiences of
evil; that evil is an absolute necessity to the process of living. But
there sits that three-letter word, telling you that this is a LIE. To live
need not involve evil. Humans only believe that it does. (When one
believes a falsehood, "believe" is not such a positive word, is it ? An-
other reason the word druids seeded the word "lie" into it.)
The truth is, as we discussed earlier, that this WORLD, containing
LORD, is but a distorted mirror reflection of the real world, of the level
of awareness called Heaven, where your Spirit, the you-of-you,
dwells. And where your body could also dwell, if you understood
how to live with "one foot in Heaven, and one foot oh Earth" (as
explained in the next chapter). When Earthlings finally penetrate the

-- 528 of 676 --

LEXIGRAMS * 465
true meaning of the fourth and fifth lines of the Lord's Prayer (pene-
trated in Chapter 9) . . . "Thy Kingdom Come, Thy will be done ... on
Earth, as it is in Heaven" . . . then to LIVE may not any longer be called
EVIL, and to claim that it is will be exposed as a LIE, as it's a lie even
now, when it's still not fully comprehended.
Through the absolute imaging, ordaining and knowing of the
Mind, you have the power to manifest any kind of miracle — Ordain,
Image, Believe, have Faith and Know — in other words, impress your
image upon the ethers with such intensity that the image will be trans-
muted into physical, dense matter. One way to impress it on your
mind and to always remember the alchemy of it is through yet another
facet of Lexigrams — meditating on two simple sentences. At least,
that's how I re-mind my own S-elf of the alchemy of it. I find it
irresistibly amusing, like a private joke with my Higher Elf, so that
when I happen to speak the sentences aloud, musing to myS-elf in the
presence of others who don't have a clue as to what I'm up to, I can't
suppress a giggle — which doesn't do much for my desired image of
dignity, I must say. These are the two alchemy-reminder sentences:
If you mind, it matters. If you don't mind, it doesn't matter.
When you read or speak the word mind in these two sentences
image it mentally as a verb, synonymous with using your Mind to
ordain a thing. Understand ? A verb. And when you read or speak
the word matter in these two sentences, image it as synonomous with
the verbs "materialize" or "manifest." See ? In other "words," you
need to firmly "mind" (verb) a thing to materialize it into visibility, to
"matter" it — manifest it into dense matter.
And so, if you mind something, it certainly does matter.
But if you don't mind, it certainly won't matter.
You'd be surprised how often I have to chuckle and appear to be
a little pixilated during a day's normal conversations, keeping "in
mind" the foregoing alchemy secret of Lexigrams. Like, someone in a

-- 529 of 676 --

466 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
theatre lobby will rudely press ahead of me in the popcorn line, re-
marking sarcastically, "Excuse me, do you mind ?" — and I answer,
with a silly elf grin on my face, "Well, usually 1 do, but not this time,
so I guess it won't really matter."
Or .when a friend asks, "Are you sure this doesn't matter ?" And I
reply, grinning again, "That depends on whether or not 1 mind it."
The confused stares I get only make my Higher Elf and my own S-elf
giggle louder. I think most of my acquaintances have just written me
off as a little eccentric, you know ? You'll find out. When they ask
you to explain what you mean it just becomes more and more amus-
ing, until you're finally overcome with an uncontrollable fit of laugh-
ter. Like . . . remember when, you were in Sunday School or grade
school and someone said something funny to make you laugh, and
you couldn't stop until you were sent from the room in disgrace ? It's
like that.
Now, you may want to ask yourself what the human wordsmiths
believe they really mean by those two words ? Are they verbs or
nouns ? How are they defined ? By this time you may have guessed
that these are two of the many jokes played on humans by the word
druids, who roll over in the ethers, clutching their tiny tummies,
laughing every time they hear them used . . . and mis-used.
If you could use a good laugh yourS-elf (or if your elf could use
one) while you're reading this, check Webster's. Their confused at-
tempts to define the word mind are amusing, as they valiantly struggle
on and on, taking up more than half an entire page with this one
word. Somewhere in the middle of all this verbal stuttering, the hu-
man wordsmiths come up (or down) with: "never mind — don't be
concerned; it doesn't matter" (!).
Then one is tempted to look up the word matter a few pages back
from "mind," and discovers that the dictionary takes up roughly the
same amount of space, using about the same number of contradictory
words as were used in attempting to define "mind." They should be

-- 530 of 676 --

LEXIGRAMS * 467
able to leave it with "a substance of which all material things are
made," but they dare not stop there. As they go on for more than half
a page with the enigma of "matter," one feels a sharp pang of sympathy
for those of foreign birth who are trying to learn the English language
as it exists presently.
Under the Webster definition of "matter" is, however, a sentence
that shines forth from the page like a beacon of light, one which
should impress upon the most sceptical brain computer the great
power of the Mind. Webster states, quite truly, that matter is "what all
material things are made of" . . . and that "matter and energy are
regarded as equivalents, miftually convertible, according to Einstein's
formula. E = MC 2 (energy equals mass multiplied by the square of
the velocity of light). Remember those angstrom units, which are ac-
tually light waves, we discussed in the "Gurus, Ghosts, and Avatars"
chapter ? Webster further re-minds us that, in dualistic thinking,
"matter" is regarded as the opposite of Mind and Spirit, but neglects to
tell us that the former is created by the latter. That's an important
omission. It's disturbing to metaphysicians. Does it bother you ?
You don't mind it being omitted ? Well, then, I guess it won't matter.
Sometimes the word druids play audio jests with words, such as:
I threw the ball through the window ... 1 am through with you . . . and
it's through the light wave energy of the Mind that matter is created.
Or the words edition and addition. They sound alike, and really are
sibling words, since each "edition" of anything is an "addition" of the
former number of "editions." We could remain with this facet of Lex-
igrams for an entire book, but we'll move on now to more Lexigrams
of the basic sort.
I must warn you of a particular experience you're certain to have
as you begin to master Lexigrams. (And they must be mastered, or
they'll try to take control, in their mischievous ways.) You'll seldom
complete a Lexigram of a word (or a name) the first time you calculate
it. That is, you'll think you have, you'll firmly believe you have —
especially if it's a word of only four or five letters — how could a word

-- 531 of 676 --

468 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
escape you dealing with such few letters ? But as I keep telling you,
Lexigrams, the dictionary of the word druids, have definite minds of
their own.
Sometimes Lexigrams will hold back their most startling secret
for days, even months or years. Then one day you'll look at your
Lexigram again, and there it is, peeking out at you ! The answer you'd
been blinded to when you first tried to solve the mystery of the word
or short name you needed so to penetrate. You'll be annoyed, and be
unable to understand how you, as an intelligent, careful person, could
possibly have missed that one revealing word, after having spent so
much time concentrating on a simple Lexigram. Timing is everything
in Lexigrams, and the word druids prove themselves (Oh, them-elves !)
to be alive when they simply will not allow you to learn anything
prematurely that they decide you're not yet ready to know. That's just
part of what I meant by saying they have a mind of their own. Or
minds of their own. It's one of their most exasperating habits. I've
never taught a single person Lexigrams who hasn't had this frustrating
experience with them.
It was my own elf mother who first tuned me in to words, teach-
ing me bushels of fey and in-significant secrets (she was Irish). Actu-
ally, she was "me grandmother," as the Irish say, but I've always called
her my elf mother, a term 1 believe everyone should adopt. After all,
by the time your babies have babies, you should have become quite
druid or elflike in your wisdom. The same with elf fathers. It's ever
so much truer a description than the old label and its stuffy image,
don't you think ? Anyway, it's a rather Hobbity idea I like.
After she first seeded me with the fascination for words along
came A.G. and C.A.M., two of my wisest Gurus, who verified it all,
and introduced me to their word druid friends, telling them I was not
the enemy, but was working toward the same ideals as they were.
After consulting with them privately A.G. brought me the message,
several years ago, that they were now ready to come out of hiding, if
people were ready to accept them, and not ridicule them. They felt, J

-- 532 of 676 --

LEXIGRAMS * 469
he said, that letting humans know of their existence might speed
things up a mite before the catuclysms (that's the way they spell the
word). CAM. then informed me that the word druids told him they
would be watching me carefully as I write my books, especially this
one, which "stars" them in feature roles, one might say — and that
their constant kibbitzing of me at the typewriter is the reason I always,
without fail, type the American word theater as the English spell
theatre, and become quite annoyed when an editor at a publishing
house tries to change it to "theater." It's their way of re-minding me of
the geographical location of their protection of the language. Also
where the sect known as the Essenes originated. Did you notice the
word mite in the middle of this paragraph ? "... Might speed things
up a mite ..." Did you also notice that MITE is TIME — and TIME is
MITE ? What does that tell you ?
Another strange thing about Lexigrams that seems most odd, but
is nevertheless true, is that Lexigrams often expose the secrets of the
one who is working on them. They frequently reveal as much about
the one doing the lexigramming as the Lexigrams reveal to the one
trying to penetrate them. You might say it's a kind of mutual mystery
. . . simultaneously unfolded . . . which is why I say that Lexigrams are
a bridge to your own Higher Elf, allowing you to gradually learn how
to possess all the power He or She possesses, and has been patiently
waiting to channel into you.
Therefore, you'll sometimes notice that someone else will pick up
something entirely different from what you discovered by lexigram-
ming the same word. Even lexigramming itself is individual, just as
you and the word druids are individuals.
The Lexigram I've found to be the most puzzling and disturbing
personally, and for the longest time was unable to spiral into a satisfac-
tory answer concerns the word EARTH.
I had no problem with the discovery that EARTH hid within it the
words EAT and HATE. It was obvious, as it would be to any vege-

-- 533 of 676 --

470 it LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
tarian, that to EAT meat means that one HATES our animal brothers
and sisters, and I already knew that EARTH was once an Eden Heaven
(again, see Chapter 9) — that one of the reasons (only one of them) for
the Fall was the EATing of meat, which is a sure way to spread and
demonstrate HATE. Then I found the words EAR and HEAR, and this
discovery was also logical. It's related, of course, to that counsel from
the Nazarene I repeat so often in this book, "Let those who have eyes,
see — let those who have ears, hear." I realized that humans on
EARTH are being given a message to use the inner EAR to HEAR once
more the Music of the Spheres, a message intensified in the word
EARTHLINGS, hiding SING, which we discovered earlier in this
chapter.
But then . . . trten I realized that EARTH is HEART and HEART is
EARTH, by taking the last letter of Earth and making it the first letter
of Heart — and vice versa. The two words must vibrate to the same
musical language chord, because each is the other, with a simple
switch of one letter of the alphabet — H. This was a deep enigma to
me. First of all, why should Earth and Heart be word druid identical
twins ? What is happening here ? 1 wondered. What are these iden-
tical twin word druids named EARTH AND HEART trying to tell us ?
Clearly, something of deep in-significance. Even CLEARLY also con-
tains EARLY, we know that what we are supposed to hear that will
make everything clear was known in an EARLY age . . . in the begin-
ning. All very well, but it still didn't solve the basic mystery of those
druid twins, HEART and EARTH. I told myself I needed to spiral
higher, and so I did.
As I continued, with Aries determination and persistence, to
ponder and puzzle and try to spiral higher and higher to penetrate the
message from a higher level of awareness, I felt a little like a "tempor-
ary angel," who flew up into the sky, then saw her wings drop off as
she drifted back down to Earth again, still not fully enlightened.
On my mental-astral spiraling flight, I came up with a few codes
and clues, but not the final answer. Suddenly, as I sat in the quiet and I

-- 534 of 676 --

LEXIGRAMS * 471
calm contemplation necessary for a full penetration of Lexigrams, I
saw before me the shape of a human EAR. Quickly, 1 drew it on my
sheet of Lexigram paper. Then I added an opposite EAR. Next, I
drew the two ears joined together, and realized that they looked like a
HEART. Draw two opposite ears, joined together, and you'll see what
I mean. But that was only another clue, not the answer to the enigma
of these twin druids, superimposed over the words EARTH and
HEART — although it's worth remembering that two EARS equal
a HEART.
Still spiraling and flying through the sky of my Mind on the
wings of thought, 1 printed, in capital letters, the following related
words (meaning that all these word druids belong to the same
"family":
AURAL related to what the dictionary calls the "ear-sense of hearing"
AURICLE the external part of an ear — and an atrium of the heart
AURUM the geologist's Latin-based word for gold
AURA the human aura
AURA the same word, also a medical term for "a warning sensation
that precedes a seizure, such as a heart attack." Strange
AURIC derived from gold — gold again
What have we here, enigmatic word druids ? Clearly, there is
some musical chord linking the Earth, the human Heart, the human
Ear . . . and Gold. The EARTH-HEART Lexigram code is a tough one to
decode because it's been so intricately encoded by those little word
druids. My thoughts next spiraled into the word GOLD itself, and a
discussion about it I had with the turbaned one. (See Preface.)
He told me, this lovable Avatar-Adept-Guru, that GOLD was a
most important word in the fallen but still living English language, as
is the metal it defines. Gold is the only metal that cannot be destroyed
or changed into something else. It remains gold. It's the only hard

-- 535 of 676 --

472 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
metal soft enough to be malleable, allowing itself to be pounded or
pressed into various shapes, without breaking. Gold is "immortal"; it
never dies, and cannot be "killed." Again, it remains itself, and what-
ever you do to it, it never breaks.
It seems to be, in some mysterious way, seeded into the mass
collective subconscious that gold is linked to the human HEART and
human emotions, because gold is what is given always as a sign of high
esteem (gold watches to valued employees who retire, and so on) . . .
and what lover doesn't prefer to give the beloved gold over any other
precious metal or stone, even a diamond? Gold says something com-
plex to the hearts of humans. It's found in the EARTH. "Gold,"
Nahtan told me, "possesses unsuspected healing power, as the ancient
Egyptians knew, which is why they used so much gold in their tombs
and healing rites; why they always wore it against the skin. But," he
continued, staring deeply into my eyes, "what is gold, in reality ?"
I pondered his question for a moment ... I thought that, when
you remove the L for Love, the word GOLD then becomes GOD.
"Is GOLD," I asked him, "the gentle-powerful vibration or musi-
cal chord for Love ? Is GOLD Love . . . solidified into a
precious metal ?"
As usual, Nahtan turned Socratic on me. He smiled, then asked
me several questions. "Can Love be destroyed ?" he asked. "Can
Love be pounded and pressed into various shapes, without break-
ing ? And last, but not least ... can Love heal ?"
The answer to each question, of course, was obvious. Then he
smiled again, saying, "Well, then, it does seem that Gold and Love
have much in common." He hesitated, then said, "Even in a monetary
sense. Gold is sold . . . and so, unfortunately, is Love sold . . . and
both financial transactions are regrettable."
"But . . . what about Earth and Heart and Gold ... and the Ear
and Hear . . . and Eat and Hate ... I still can't penetrate the EARTH-
HEART Lexigram."

-- 536 of 676 --

LEXIGRAMS * 473
Nahtan replied simply, "You will," and as was his wont, indicated
that the subject was closed for the present.
Over the years 1 found another word hiding in EARTH and
HEART, as tears of pure frustration stung my eyes each time I tried to
complete the EARTH Lexigram. Of course. I'd missed it before.
TEAR.
No matter how I tried, the Lexigram remained locked. But I did
make an interesting discovery about GOLD. That it contains GOD is
obvious, and we've already covered that. But it also hides the words
OLD and LOG. The Bristlecone Pine is the oldest tree known to
this continent — an "old log." In America, the gold strikes and gold
rushes have occurred in California, Nevada and Colorado. These are
the three states where the Bristlecone Pine grows most profusely. I
haven't checked South Africa, but then, we're penetrating gold in
America.
One spring morning in Cripple Creek, during a thunderstorm, I
had one of those dreams you wake up in the middle of, you know ? As
I sat up in bed, I remembered my dream so clearly it awed me. My
dream had solved the Lexigram puzzle of EARTH and HEART and
GOLD. . Even the EAR and HEAR and EAT and HATE part of it. I was
elated and overjoyed, and wanted to tell Nahtan immediately. But, as
usual, 1 had to be content with sending him an astral telegram over
our "Eastern" Union. It worked, and he phoned me a few days later.
I must say he was quite happy that I had solved the Lexigram all by
myself. But when I told him enthusiastically that I planned to reveal it
in the Lexigram chapter of Star Signs his voice took on a rare stern
tone, and he cautioned me that I must not do this. "Some Lexigrams,"
he said, "must be solved by the Higher S-elf of each individual, and
this is such a one. You do not help people by doing all of their spiral-
ing for them. No one becomes illuminated in this manner. They will
see, and they will know, at the allotted time for each individual."
I'm sure this annoys and frustrates you. I can well understand it,

-- 537 of 676 --

474 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
because your annoyance matches my own. Nevertheless, as I'm sure-
you will understand, one simply does not deliberately and Free Will-
fully disobey a Guru on a level as high as Nahtan. And so, 1 risk your
displeasure and annoyance with me by telling you only this much —
enough to start you on your own journey to penetrate this Lexigram . .
and may the Force be with you !
******
As I wrote earlier, Lexigrams of words, names or phrases can be
silly, serious, sacred or sublime. The silly ones can be thought of as
masks the word druids wear on Halloween.
To demonstrate a silly one, here are a couple of lines from a verse
in one of my poetry books: "What freaky creatures we are . . . to speak
a language in which rats spelled backwards is star."
To demonstrate a serious and sacred one, I'll share with you how
a Lexigram spiraled me into solving only a small portion of my puzzle-
ment with the fourth dimension, of Time: the Eternal Now.
Ever since I can remember I've tried to penetrate the fourth di-
mension of Time, which is an Eternal Now, where Past, Present and
Future are all one, not separate slices of "Time." Einstein, Abstract Al,
came closer to it than anyone else, but even his theory of Relativity
leaves a few veils still concealing the whole truth of it . . . or, at least a
clear comprehension of it.
Clock time just creates more tangles in the cobweb. I suppose
that's why I seldom listen to the radio. Every few minutes the an-
nouncer or disc jockey interrupts to say "The correct time is now . .
."
And who cares ? Not I.
It's also why I keep all of the clocks in my Tesla-haunted, slip-
ping-off-the-time-track house in Cripple Creek, including the old
grandfather clock in the corner, each set at a different — and incorrect
— hour. When the latter chimes, then, it doesn't send me into a state

-- 538 of 676 --

LEXIGRAMS * 475
of panic to realize how little
u
time" I have left to do something I
haven't yet done, you know ? When 1 become nervous over time I've
found I'm even later than usual for appointments and such, just be-
cause I'm aware of it. 1 count on friends to "get me to the church on
time" — to the airport or wherever.
My friend and make-believe big brother, Cleve Backster, the
Spocky researcher you read about in the previous chapter, has a sim-
ply dreadful time hang-up. When he visits me he absolutely insists on
arriving at the airport for his return trip at least two hours before his
plane is scheduled to take off, creating the necessity of hanging out in
those dreary airport coffee shops forever-and-a-day. I've reached the
point where 1 refuse to accompany him to the airport. I say good-bye
at my front door and send him off in a cab, or in a car with a friend —
and let him idle the hours away in the terminal however he chooses.
Howard Hughes used to continually tell his close friends (he only
had — that is has — one or two of them) that "time is on our side."
Well, time may be on Howard's side, even now — (yes, another rid-
dle) — but it's definitely not on my side. Never was. Never shall be.
Time and 1 are not allies. We're cautious enemies, engaged in a never-
ending cold war, behind a dark curtain of nameless fear.
All right, here's a Lexigram of the phrase Eternal Now. Let's see
what it might have to tell us.
1 also lexigrammed The Great Pyramid, because I know it's also
closely related in some manner to the fourth dimension.
I didn't include every single word of either Lexigram. You may
want to do a little lexigramming exploration yourself. But these Lex-
igrams contained enough words to spiral me into reveling in some
revelations — and further fantasizing about that tempting and elusive
relativity of space.
******

-- 539 of 676 --

476 LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
ETERNAL NOW
RENEW WATER . . . RELATE A TONE TO RA
AN EON TO ATONE
A TONE NEAR EAR
NOW NEAR TO LATER EON and ERA RELATE TO NOW
NOW and LATER ARE ONE
is NOW NEAR TO LATER ? NO ! NOW and LATER ARE ONE !
THE GREAT PYRAMID
THE EARTH GRID IS HERE
RA HATED TIME . . because . TIME HARMED THE EARTH
TEAR TIME APART ... RAH MADE TIME DIE IN THE PYRAMID
(Nothing decays in the Great Pyramid)
THEY (Isis and Osiris) PRAYED IN THE PYRAMID
RAHRAM (esoteric name for our Creators)
RAHRAM HEARD HIM . . . RAHRAM HEARD HER . . . THAT DAY
THE GAME IS TIME
I DARE TIME !

-- 540 of 676 --

LEXIGRAMS * 477
The final three words of the Pyramid Lexigram are personal to
me. You may find some that are personal to you.-
Unlike any other Lexigrams you'll ever calculate, these two — The
Eternal Now and The Great Pyramid — are, in a certain sense, inter-
changeable. Others are not They fit only the word, the person,
phrase or entity they describe. These are closely related concerning
the mysteries they hide, and that makes a difference, you see.
Ill give you only a couple of examples of the thought spiraling
these two created for me. It's best for you to spiral some of them
yourself.
To realize that Past, Present and Future are all One, it's first nec-
essary to realize that none of the three of them actually exist, in reality
... as well as in relativity. Shall we try to prove that ?
All right, now answer only with either "yes" or M
no" the following
questions. No fair to answer in more detail. Just a simple "yes" or
"no."
Consider the Present. Will you admit that the Present is nothing
but a moving stream of the Future becoming the Past ? GORILLA ! That
word was in the Future before you read it, but instantly it was in the
Past as you read it. Nothing remains, not even the ticking of the
clock. Everything keeps moving, constantly. Therefore, once again, do
you admit that the Present can only be defined as a constantly moving
stream of the-Future-becoming-the-Past, never stopping, even for a split
second ?
We can, therefore, ignore the Present, since it doesn't exist.
Right ?
Now, let's move along in that constantly moving stream to con-
sider the Past and the Future.
Will you admit that what you now call the Past — was what you
once called the Future ? Think. Was the Past once the Future ?

-- 541 of 676 --

478 it LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
Next question. Will you admit that what you now call the Fu-
ture is something you will someday surely call the Past ?
Then, will you further admit that, therefore, following pure logic,
the Past is equally as much the Future as it is itself ? Will you admit
that, following the same pure logic, the Future is equally as much the
Past as it is itself ? That these two imposters are interchangeable and
totally equal ?
Then they do not exist as separate entities, right ? They cancel
one another out — except for that instant called the Present, when one
is becoming the other — which we just proved doesn't exist !
Right ? So we just tossed all three of them into nothingness.
A second bite of mystical food for thought you may want to
munch on and ponder.
Sit down somewhere so that a wall is behind you, and a clock is in
front of you. The wall is behind you, and the clock is ahead of you, in
front of you.
Now, let's make the phrase "behind you" synonymous with the
Past. Let's make the phrase "ahead of you" or "in front of you" syn-
onymous with the Future. Is that clear ?
Now someone walks up to you, where you're seated, and asks
you: "Where is the wall ?" You will answer, of course, "The wall is
behind me." (Behind being synonymous with the Past, remember.)
Then that person asks you, "Where is the clock ?" Staring
straight ahead at the clock on the table, you will answer, of course,
"The clock is in jront of me." (In front being synonymous with the
Future, remember.)
Now pretend (pretend intensely) that you have a pair of eyes at
the back of your head, performing exactly the same function as the
pair of eyes on your face. Do you have the picture set in your mind
firmly ?

-- 542 of 676 --

LEXIGRAMS • 479
If so, you'll know that the eyes' on your face and the eyes at the
back of your head are both flashing simultaneous images into your
brain, your front eyes projecting the image of the clock — your "rear"
eyes projecting an image of the wall behind you. For the purpose of.
this illustration, let's say two simultaneous images, one superimposed
upon the other.
Now someone walks up to you, where you're seated, and asks
you: "Where is the wall ? Is it in front of you or behind you ?"
Your answer would have to be, "I don't understand what you
mean. The wall is."
Then that person asks you "Where is the clock ? Is it behind you
or in front of you ?" Your answer would have to be the same. "I don't
understand what you mean. The clock is."
The reason you wouldn't understand the questions, or be able to
answer them, would be that you've never comprehended behind you
— or in front of you. You've experienced only those simultaneous
images. Therefore, you'd have no way of interpreting "behind" and
"in front." The only experience you would have is in selectively tuning
out one image in favor of the other, whenever you chose to do so — or
blanking out (erasing) both together when you chose.
When you read the last four paragraphs substitute the words Past
and Future for "behind you" and "in front of you," and read them
aloud. It won't make you totally comprehend, but it will bring you a
few feet closer to doing so. It seldom works, though, unless you sub-
stitute the words, as 1 told you — then read the paragraphs aloud.
After pondering these two mental jogging exercises you'll eventu-
ally tone the muscles of your Soul, symbolically, and begin to spiral
higher and higher answers to the Eternal Now with more ease.
By the way, did you notice, on your own, in the clock-wall exam-
ple, thai whether you place either of them behind you (Past) or in
front of you (Future) depends entirely on which direction you're facing ?

-- 543 of 676 --

480 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
In other words, someone in the room who is seated so that he or she is
facing the opposite direction would find what you called "in front"
(Future) to be "behind" (Past) — and would find what you called
"behind" (Past) to be "in front or ahead" (Future). Therefore, the Past
and the Future are the same, to two people facing opposite directions.
It's all relative. Back to Abstract Al again . . and the Lexigram of
ANGEL and ANGLE.
Speaking of clocks, Time and relative angle-angels, remember I
told you in Chapter 3, "Gurus, Ghosts, and Avatars," that 1 was even-
tually enlightened with the solution to the "twenty till and twenty
after" phenonemon Finbar O'Malley and I discussed the morning he
drove me to Cripple Creek ? I promised to share it with you (there's
an extremely thought-provoking Lexigram linked to it) — and so, if
you haven't discovered the solution through your own mental spiral-
ing, here is what I learned during my mountain retreat.
In the midst of a brief contact with one of my "teachers" there, we
fell into a discussion about this old Gaelic "superstition." (Please read
about it again at this point. It begins on Page 122 in Chapter 3.)
Why does this strange silence periodically occur within a group of
people, and what does it mean ? "It occurs when reincarnated Atlan-
teans are talking together," I was told. "The mystery of the memories
contained in what has been called 'the mass collective subconscious'
or 'racial memory' has never been fully explained or penetrated. In
this case, what occurs is a sudden, deeply buried group memory, trig-
gered by whatever 'force' allows you to awaken at a certain time in the
morning that you ordained the night before, when the clock hands
point to that time — a subconscious group 'race memory' of the trag-
edy of the terrible inundation of Atlantis.
"Legend truly claims that this Atlantean inundation began, as
measured by Earth time or 'clock time,' at twenty minutes before eight

-- 544 of 676 --

LEXIGRAMS * 481
o'clock (O ! Clock !) and that by twenty minutes after eight, this once
fair continent of Atlantis was submerged beneath what is now the
Atlantic Ocean (so named for just that reason), the entire cataclysm
beginning and ending in what seemed to be the 'twinkling of an eye'
— taking only forty minutes in all. One might say that the 'silence'
phenomenon could be interpreted as a subconscious gesture of 'respect'
or 'remembrance of tragedy,' like unto those similar, but conscious
moments Earthlings observe collectively in church or on a national
observance of some major catastrophe."
Having been thus seeded by the Avatar, 1 inquired about the
"scientific" cause of this swift inundation of an entire continent, re-
marking that I had heard legends claiming that Atlantean scientists
(whose technology-existing-without-equal-spiritual-enlightenment our
present-day scientists are now dangerously close to matching) caused
the cataclysm in this way: They are said to have designed and created a
very large crystal by a carefully calculated mathematical formula, but
their calculations were in error for some reason — and instead of
producing the great power (for various purposes) they had expected,
the crystal in some manner shattered the Earth's crust, causing it to
slip upon its axis and initiate the Ice Age.
"This is correct," 1 was told emphatically. "As for the nature of
the earthquaking error committed by the Atlantean sciences, continue
to spiral your thoughts in meditation, keeping the aspect of Time, as
indicated by the 'twenty till and twenty after' phenomenon in mind as
you do so. Then we shall meet again and discuss what you discover in
this manner. Remember that the Atlantean cataclysm concerned took
place at twenty minutes till and twenty minutes after eight, but the
group phenomenon you have observed can occur at twenty minutes
before — or twenty minutes after — any hour," as an astral code to
conjure the position of the clock hands at the time of the tragic event.
1 did as instructed. I meditated. For a while I was not inspired.
Then one day, while I was staring at the face of the old grandfather
clock in my "haunted house" in Cripple Creek, perhaps assisted by the

-- 545 of 676 --

482 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
"ghost" of Nikola Tesla in the corner of the parlor (see Chapter 3), I
began to draw the face of a clock on paper — a large clock face. Next,
I marked the position of a clock's hands at twenty till and twenty after
eight (a.m. or p.m.), which is the same position indicating twenty till
and twenty after noon or midnight. I then saw that, when the clock
face was turned upside down or re-versed, the markings indicated ten
minutes till and ten minutes after ten the 3 tens equaling 12, reducing
to 3. Just as 20 till and 20 after 8 equals 12, reducing to 3.
I also observed that these four markings, when connected, cre-
ated a double pyramid shape, with one "layered" over the other, as in
the following sketches.
The triangle or (tri-angle . . . three angels ?) re-minded me simul-
taneously of the Great Pyramid of Giza, designed and engineered by
Osiris after the fall of Atlantis. I remembered that I had been taught
that beneath the Giza Pyramid is another pyramid, built to precisely
the same exact measurements of the one on top of the ground, the two
being joined, base-to-base, an engineering feat not yet suspected by our
present scientists. 1 recalled that 1 had also been taught the reason for
these two identical pyramids having been thus designed and con-
structed, base-to-base. It was "to keep the Pole Star centered," to
"prevent any further axial excursions of the North and South Poles."
I had also learned (been taught ... or remembered) about the
"hidden generators present in the bottom, unseen and unguessed pyr-
amid, sending out mighty forces," used to guide the "spacecraft" of the
time. Another reason for the base-to-base construction was to neu-
tralize the awesome power and energy which would otherwise "escap-
e" through the top or tip of each pyramid, causing this awesome
power and energy to centralize itself at a point near the base-to-base
joining, so neutralized and centered through the law of magnetism and
the magnetic field. This centering of the energies of the "tops" of both
pyramids made it possible for Master Avatars from other Earths in
other solar systems to heal the people in the "Queen's Chamber," un-
der the guise of the priests of the day.

-- 546 of 676 --

LEX1GRAMS 483
The source of this immeasurable power and energy may be at-
tributed to the unique measurements of the Giza pyramid (or pyra-
mids), the shape itself in some manner "bending the light waves," so
that anything in the center of this controlled energy would not decay. I
hastily scribbled another drawing, and saw that this pyramidic magic
was not a Hexagram, such as my first clock-face sketches, but diamond
shaped.
Giza Pyramid identical pyramid
below the Giza Pyramid
Swiftly, I spiraled another thought image, and drew it on the
paper. A light flashed in my brain, but only for an instant. Then
darkness again. But while the light flashed, I realized that my dia-
mond-shaped drawing cteated the figure 4.
AV equals the 4~* DIMENSION of Time
\ or the ETERNAL NOW, which equals . . .
\
-4
The power of the Giza
Pyramid
Suddenly, I glanced once more at the LEXIGRAMS of ETERNAL
NOW and THE GREAT PYRAMID ... and they had new meaning. 1

-- 547 of 676 --

484 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
' twenty
minutes
y after
The Hebrew 6 pointed Star

-- 548 of 676 --

LEXIGRAMS * 485
couldn't wait to discuss my discoveries with my teacher. We met the
following day. When I excitedly told what I had spiraled through the
meditation-elation 1 had been counseled to try "Guru" responded by
saying: '
"You have channeled truth. Not in its entire mathematical com-
plexity, but nevertheless, truth. Knowing of the awesome power and
energy created at the top of a pyramidic shape of the precise measure-
ments of the Giza Pyramid (although the latter had not yet been en-
gineered), the Atlantean scientists constructed an enormous crystal
pyramid to these same measurements — then overlaid upon it, as in
your drawing, a second and identical crystal pyramid — realizing that
this created a six-pointed star, with four additional power points.
However, since their technology was not equaled by their spiritual en-
lightenment (even as today) — they failed to realize the spiritual reason
behind the necessity of controlling such power and energies in exactly
the same way as you illustrated in your final sketch.
"Consequently, when this Atlantean crystal was activated the re-
sulting unchecked energy force exploded, cracking the Earth's surface
and creating an axial excursion upon your planet. In this manner was
Atlantis inundated and destroyed. It must not be allowed to occur
again in the Aquarian Age."
"But . . . how can there be an encore of the Atlantean cataclysm,
since the pyramid secret is known to most scientists today, and no one
would re-create such a destructive crystal ?"
"It need not happen in the same manner," he replied sadly. "At
this level of time, the destruction will be nuclear ... if not prevented.
And the Giza Pyramid can no longer repair the damage, due to certain
changes made to its structure by various pharaohs over the centuries.
You see, after the fall of Atlantis Osiris designed and engineered the
Giza Pyramid to prevent the same kind oj cataclysm from repeating
itself. It was not, however, designed to prevent the kind of destruc-
tion caused by nuclear power."

-- 549 of 676 --

486 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
For weeks following this discussion with my teacher, I spiraled
thought images continually. I couldn't seem to ignore the term
HEXAGRAM. When I created a Lexigram for Hexagram I saw that it
contained REX ... RA and RAM . . . HER RAGE ... and then I
pondered the puzzle of the number 6 this spiraling had produced. As
we learned in the numerology chaper, 6 represents Venus. It's the
number of love and peace. Then why should a six-sided Hexagram
have caused such a tragedy ? Unbidden, I recalled what I had earlier
been taught — that the esoteric code name for our male- female
Creators is RAHRAM, also present in this Lexigram.
When I expressed my confusion to my teacher he answered, "You
are right to be puzzled. It is a great mystery, indeed. The solution is
that, in the Atlantean instance, the number 6 was inverted and mirror-
reversed into the 9 and all of the negative vibrations of 9." He noticed
the question in my eyes, and anticipated my next query. u
No, I do not
choose to answer your question of how — in what manner — this 6-9
reversal took place. You must channel the answer yourself. It is so
written in the Akashic Records."
"Do you mean the Lexigram of G-U-R-U (Gee ! you are you !) ?"
I asked.
"Yes," he replied. "By the time you have spiraled the answer to
this particular 6 ... 9 question, you will have realized the identity of
the teacher from whom you have learned the most during your moun-
tain retreat."
"1 know who that is," I replied. "My own Higher Self, right ?"
He looked at me sternly. "As long as you have to end any state-
ment with a question, as you just did, you have learned nothing."
And he left.
For the longest time I pondered a second pan of this particular
6-9 mystery. I thought it odd indeed that, with a Hexagram being ai
six-sided figure, and six (6) representing Venus . . . Love . . . Peace, j

-- 550 of 676 --

LEXIGRAMS * 487
»
that somehow — and as alway^Tiof coincidentally — the word HEX
crept into the English language, with such usage as -Til place a HEX
upon you !" a most negative "curse." 1 finally figured it out. Please
write and let me know when you, too, have decoded this mystery and
solved it.
Later, my friend, Philip di Franco, channeled another facet of this
shining diamond-shaped and Hexagram mystery. He noted that all
pictures of watches and clocks in advertisements display the watch or
clock face with the hands set on either twenty after eight . . . or pointing
to ten after ten. The reason given by jewelers is tha; this is "a- more
balanced and attractive setting of the watch or clock hands, in a visual
sense." But . . . is this the real reason ? Or is the true reason buried in
the subconscious u
race memory" of the jewelers ?
Now, before we leave the Lexigram-Hexigram mystery and go on
with some incredibly revealing name "Lexies," are you ready for two
additional mysteries concerning Atlantis and the later Giza Pyramid ?
All right, open your mind, open your heart and open your Third Eye
to prove to yourself the truth of the foregoing paragraphs.
First, before the Hexagram comes the Hexagon. From the Hex-
agon, by extending it, the Hexagram is produced. Meditate on the
Atlantean crystal double pyramid again. Then lexigram the word
HEXAGON. It contains these words: EON GONE. A clear code that,
when the Atlantean scientists, with their technology, first started with
the Hexagon crystal, the whispering warning was there within the very
word that the next step of extending it to a double pyramid Hexagram
would be the end of an eon, would signal an EON GONE too soon, with
its possibilities of future glory destroyed by technology not founded
on spiritual law.
The second magic requires you to send away for two small and
relatively inexpensive objects, from which you will learn secrets of
immeasurably more value than the reasonable cost. Xanthium Crystal
. . . Suite 40 ... 712 Wilshire Blvd. . . . Santa Monica, CA . . . Zip:
90401. (213)394-7333

-- 551 of 676 --

488 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
One is a two-inch, pure Austria*! crystal Hexagon holder for a tiny
crystal ball. The other is a two-and-a-half-inch pure Austrian crystal
Pyramid. The crystals sparkle and glow with flashing light and every
color of the rainbow spectrum. And, since they are pure crystal, they
are solid; a pleasure to hold in your hand.
Take the glittering crystal ball holder, lift it to the light, and stare
into the flat bottom of the object. You will immediately see clearly the
Hexagon shape (see figure below), then notice that it extends into the 6
pointed Hebrew Star of David (the Hexagram — see figure below) . . .
whispering to your Third Eye the many mysteries contained within
this lovely crystal.
OX5:Hexagon V
Hexagon with sides
extended is a Hexagram
Then take the glittering Pyramid crystal, which has four sides.
Hold it to the light, with one of the edges directly in front of your eyes,
and look through it. You will see, magically and miraculously, a sec-
ond pyramid hiding within it. Meditating with these two crystals will,
I promise you, be an enormous "booster" to your spiraling of ancient
codes and mysteries. There are some I've not told here so you may
discover them yourself.
******

-- 552 of 676 --

LEXIGRAMS * 489
\
\
\
\
i
I
i
1
l
\
\
\
1
1
1
'
Serpent
Here are some Lexigrams of well-known names (and titles) for
you to consider. As you study them, remember this positive evidence
of the credibility of Lexigrams. We've already discussed it in relation
to opera singer Beverly Sills and feminist Gloria Steinem. Still, it bears
repeating, as all "golden rules" do. Name Lexigrams are absolutely not
interchangeable. Nor are they born from coincidence. You cannot
take the message or description gleaned from one persons name and
apply it to another person, because each one is clearly sui generis.
The Name Lexigram describes individually the person from whose
name the words were born, and no other. This is only one of the
several ways you can be sure that Lexigrams are a valid an and sci-
ence, not just a game.
Before presenting the examples of name lexigramming, I should
remind you again of the Lexigram rules for a word, a phrase or a name
— that it is not valid if more than four of the five vowels appear (three
is better) — or if more than fifteen different letters of the alphabet
appear. And don't forget that Zebra Rule ! (On Page 220.)
One more thing to remember regarding Name Lexigrams: Some
names contain very few letters; consequently the Lexigrams of such
names are brief, consisting of only a few words.
Some names contain the full allowance of vowels and alpha-
betical letters; therefore the Lexigrams of these names are longer, more
detailed and more revealing.
However, in both cases Name Lexigrams, like all Lexigrams, have
a mind of their own. In the instance of a Name Lexigram with only a
very jew words, this can mean either that (a) the person whose name it

-- 553 of 676 --

490 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
is will be found to be an extremely private person, keeping many
personal secrets — or (b) the person whose name it is happens to be a
simple and uncomplicated human, lacking any complexity in the per-
sonality, who leads a rather ordinary life.
In the instance of a Name Lexigram with many words, this can
either mean that (a) the person is & complex personality, with intricate
facets of character, who has a busy, multi-layered life-style — or (b)
this human is likewise a very private person, but in this case the pri-
vacy is achieved by the subconscious "burying" of secrets in a flurry of
words. In the latter case, it doesn't do any good — the revelations
discovered in your Lexigram will, in the final analysis, tell you what
you need to know, if you're patient, and use the power of your sixth
sense . . . your intuition . . . with your Third Eye wide open !
Blending Name Lexigrams — the astrological Sun Sign — and
the numerological value of a person's name and date of birth — will
give you a surprisingly comprehensive summary of anyone — or any
thing. (Yes, you may apply numerology to words, too — abo to ini-
tials.) And so, astrology, numerology and Lexigrams together can
turn out to be your own personal crystal ball. These three star signs of
ancient wisdom are exciting codes you may use in a variety of ways to
quest for truth and knowledge.
"* * * * * *
ADOLF HITLER
HITLER HAD OLD FOE Qews) HE LEFT FOE TO ROT (Jews)
ROLE OF HITLER; FOE OF LIFE (and) LORD OF HATE
OR
FOE OF HATE and LORD OF LIFE
Hitler had the above choice. To see why he did, read Spear of
Destiny, listed in the "Pilgrim's Progress" section in the back of this

-- 554 of 676 --

LEXIGRAMS * 491
book. It should be required reading in all schools. Hitler was an avid
student of the occult, superbly trained in all esoteric arts and sciences,
including mass hypnosis of crowds. He could have used his amazing
knowledge as white magic, to advance humankind. He had a choice.
He chose instead to use his metaphyiscal training for black magic, to
spread hatred in the world. His Lexigram makes this clear. It also
contains the following prophetic words about the German dictator:
HE TORE AT HAIR ... HE HID AT FORT
RAID AT FORT
FATE OF HITLER; FATED TO DIE AT FORT (in) FIT OF HATE
HE TRIED TO HIDE FEAR ... HE LEFT OLD FOE Qews) TO DIE OF
FIRE
FATE OF HITLER: TO DIE OF LEAD TO HEAD (shot)
TO DIE OF HOT FIRE (cremated at Fort)
THE DEATH OF HITLER FATED
* * * * * *
ABRAHAM LINCOLN
When we Lexigram only the ten separate letters comprising Abra-
ham Lincoln we discover three of perhaps the most important facts
about the man. Plus a word for further meditation and mind spiral-
ing. RAIL. He was known, of course, in his political campaigns, as
the rail splitter. Then we discover:
BORN IN A CABIN ... A CALM MAN . . . COMA IN BRAIN
(referring to the assassination)
When we study the short name a bit longer, we find: HAM (Abe
was accused of being a bit of a "ham," who enjoyed making his audi-

-- 555 of 676 --

492 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
ences at political rallies laugh at his jokes). COIN: Every school child
knows the incident of Lincoln walking several miles to return to a
storekeeper a penny he owed him. This is an excellent example of
what I told you about one-word-spiraling. One word alone in a Lex-
igram, when you open your mind and use your sixth sense, will pour
out a stream of thoughts, progressively leading you on and on . . . and
on . . . until a light flashes suddenly in your brain, and a computer
card pops out to enlighten you about some secret you were trying to
learn about the person or entity you were lexigramming. Next let's
see how much more we can learn about Lincoln by using, as permissa-
ble in Lexigrams, assuming the other rules are observed, his name plus
his title, President Abraham Lincoln, the vibration of which has been
sent into the ethers equally as often as the name Abraham Lincoln
alone, to learn more about the man.
******
PRESIDENT ABRAHAM LINCOLN
This Lexigram gives a more complete picture of the man who
kept the center together, so that this nation of the people, by the
people and for the people did not perish from the Earth. First, HE
SPLIT RAILS.
HE HEALED A TORN NATION . . . OTHERS HATED HIM . . . HE HATED
NONE
A SAD MAN, ALONE IN A MOB ... HE TOLD NO LIES — OTHERS LIED
TO HIM
HE LED THE NORTH, AND CALMED THE REBELS
THE NATION REMAINED UNITED
HE HAD NO PRIDE ... HE HAD A CALM MIND AND A CLEAR HEAD
HIS DEATH CAME FROM A SHOT IN THE HEAD

-- 556 of 676 --

LEXIGRAMS * 493
THE LORD SENT ABRAHAM LINCOLN TO LEAD AMERICA HOME
HIS STAR IS ETERNAL
HONEST ABE
This Lexigram contains LINCOLN IS NOT THE SAME AS HITLER.
There is no "Adolf in the Lincoln lexigram.
SAINT FRANCIS OF ASSISI
Francis was not married; therefore he produced no son. Al-
though he conquered his fear of leprosy by embracing a leper, and
spent his life helping to heal these outcasts of the day, he was never
able to conquer his strange fear and dislike of ants. His Lexigram,
formed from three vowels and nine letters, contains:
NO SON FOR FRANCIS . . . FRANCIS SAT ON ANTS . . . FRANCIS
FRANTIC !
IN FRANCIS IS NO SIN . ... NOT A STAIN OF SIN IN FRANCIS
FRANCIS TRAINS FOR A FAST IN A SOFT RAIN . . . FRANCIS IS FAIR
(He often fasted) (He was a Libra)
FRANCIS FAINTS IN FRONT OF CROSS
Francesco had a vision before a crucifix at San Damiano where he
went into a trancelike state, and heard, through clairaudience, the
voice of Jesus saying, "Francis, rebuild my Temple."
FRANCIS RISES TO STARS ! He was often seen levitating by his
monks.
Do you recall, at the end of the Numerology chapter, the legend
beginning on Page 283, which tells that metaphysicians have always
claimed that Francesco Bernadone, Francis of Assisi, was one of the
reincarnated "14 pieces of Osiris" ? Again, Lexigrams answer such
soul-probing wonders. The above words comprising "Saint Francis of

-- 557 of 676 --

494 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
Assisi," the name which is still most commonly and frequently used
when referring to him, and therefore carries the strongest vibration,
lexigrams into:
OSIRIS ARISES IN FRANCIS
FRANCIS IS OSIRIS !
******
HOWARD ROBARD HUGHES
HEAD OF (TWA) BOARD . . . HUGHES GOOD, but SAD HE HAS A
HARD HEAD
HUGHES, SR., HAD HUGE GUSHERS . . . WAGES GREW ... HE
HOARDED DOUGH
Hughes, Sr., made his fortune in the oil fields, and was not
known to be overly generous with his money.
USA SUED HUGHES . . OR . . . HUGHES SUED USA ?
A good question, on several occasions in the past.
HUGHES HAS A BAD EAR
Hughes has been nearly deaf in his left ear for most of his life.
Notice that, under Lexigram rules, 1 could have used the past tense
"had" in this Lexigram, but 1 chose to use the present tensp "has"
instead. That's a riddle, one that may be solved sooner than you
expect.
HUGHES SHREWD True. And the word applies to his identical twin
and fraternal twin half brothers too. Another riddle, soon to be
solved.
BAD GUARDS USED HUGHES Right on. But justice will triumph.

-- 558 of 676 --

LEXIGRAMS 495
HUGHES SOS WAS HEARD As the world will soon know.
HUGHES HAD SAD DOGS . . . HUGHES DREW DOGS Howard has
owned several loved dogs as pets over the years. Once, when driving
to dinner at a country club with a film star I know well, they passed a
dog lying on the side of the road. Howard ordered the driver to stop
for the dog, and drive straight to an animal hospital. He sat there until
the dog was pronounced out of danger, hours after the country club
had closed. When he lived, for nearly a year, in the home of a friend
of mine, he often liked to "doodle" while seated at the dining room
table, and some of his occasional doodles were of dogs.
GOD HEARD HUGHES
SOARS !
GOD REWARDS HUGHES HUGHES
This Lexigram is an enigmatic prophecy, a promise for
tomorrow.
JESUS OF NAZARETH
SEE THE ROSES . . . HEAR THE NOTE . . . HEAR THE TONE
JESUS NEAR TO ZEUS AT SUNSET
(Zeus was the Greek "Father god")
THE HEART OF JESUS (was) TRUE TO HER . (and) TRUE TO US
THE STAR OF JESUS SHONE ON EARTH
HE AROSE ON EASTER
This Lexigram contains the deep Earth-Heart mystery.
*****************************

-- 559 of 676 --

496 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
MARY MAGDALENE
MARY A RAM . . . MARY RAGED . . .
MARY ANGERED . . . MARY DREAMED
MARY HAD A MAD DREAM ON A GREY DAY
MARY HAD MANY MEN . . MANY MEN DAMNED MARY
MARY LEANED ON A GREAT MAN
"though your sins be as scarlet
they shall be as white as snow"
MARY MADE AN ANGEL
Nor are the Lexigrams of these two names . . . interchangeable.
Like all Name Lexigrams, they are distinctly, individually descriptive.
******
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
CIA CAN TRAIN AN INTELLIGENT AGENT JN A LYING GAME IN A
YEAR
RENT . . . TEAR
A CIA AGENT CAN CREATE ANGER and RAGE
CIA CAN LIE ... A GENTLE GIRL CAN CRY LATER
CIA CAN GET REAGAN CAN GET NANCY ILL
CIA EAGLE not REAL EAGLE ... CIA EAGLE A LIE
Obviously, neither Harry Truman nor anyone else involved in
naming this government agency and approving its seal had the slight-
est notion that the USA symbolic Eagle would appear in the name of

-- 560 of 676 --

LEXIGRAMS * 497
the agency — and naturally had no idea that Ronald Reagan and wife
Nancy would be in the White House thirty-seven years later. There's
a subtle message here for President Reagan and the First Lady, in view
of Irangate and perhaps subsequent events.
THE SALVATION ARMY
A NATION MAY LIVE IN LOVE ... AS SAINT MARY
NO LIES . . ONLY LOVE
It's unfortunate that the Salvation Army Lexigram can't apply to
the Central Intelligence Agency Lexigram. It would be a better
world. But a Lexigram can never live the Karma of any other Lex-
igram — only its own — another evidence that the words forming
them are living entities and totally individual, even as you and I are
totally individual.
There's an effective way to prevent any harm resulting from your
sending the sounds of spoken negative words into the ethers — and I
trust that by now you understand how much harm really can be
caused by this, because of the invisible, yet powerful frequencies' of
sound. There are many negative words and phrases and, naturally,
they can't all be listed here. You know which ones they are. Phrases
like: Drop dead. This job makes me sick. He (or she) makes me
sick. Let's kill two birds with one stone. If it's the very last thing I
ever do, I'm going to Wouldn't you just know that would
happen ? (something negative, of course). He probably won't call.
I'll never be able to get this straight. I'll tell her, but she's never going
to understand. We'll never make it to the airport in time. We're sure
to get there after the movie has started. I'm not going to get enough
sleep, so I'll be half dead tomorrow. Look at that pimple ! I'm going
to look terrible for the party tomorrow night. I'll see him dead first,
before I'll let him . . . (whatever) And ... it always sends cold chills
through me, but I've actually heard mothers say, jokingly, innocently,
never realizing what they're doing — a new popular "jest" — to their
children, when they're misbehaving, "Oh, go play in the traffic !"

-- 561 of 676 --

498 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
After youVe realized the reality of the power of words and
sounds, but haven't been able to change your bad habits completely,
you'll catch yourself uttering something negative without thinking,
and feel concerned. (But don't say, "Darn it ! 1 could bite my tongue
for saying that" — or you just might, and you know how painful that
can be !) Instead, after unthinkingly speaking a negative word or
phrase, just say aloud the word cancel. And say one cancel for each
negative word in the phrase or sentence you spoke, imaging the words
being zapped down with a laser beam with every cancel. The word
cancel has the power to do just that. You may feel a little quirky at
first, but after a while you'll realize it's worth it, and besides, your
friends won't laugh at you. They'll just think you're being mysterious;
that you know something they don't know and, of course, you do.
When you've learned how to read between-the-lines of the Com-
pound Number definitions in the numerology chapter (since each
analysis possesses multi-layered meanings) you'll understand why the
word cancel, which has a numerological value of 20, has the ability to
erase a negative sound, and "clean the slate," so to speak, for a new
birth of positive frequencies.
Two exercises you can learn to do fairly quickly, which may have
the strongest effect on your comprehension of the powers you possess
when you tune into your Higher S-elf, are the ones I used my own s-elf
in the beginning — and I'm just as awed and overwhelmed by them
each new time they prove their magic as I was the very first time. The
wonder never becomes stale to me. 1 marvel at it every time it hap-
pens, which is every time I call on it, without a single exception.
The first one is a magic for remembering something you've for-
gotten, and it happens to all of us. It can be a telephone number,
someone's name, a particular date, an address — or a word or phrase
you know very well, but simply can't recall, if you're a writer, sitting at
the typewriter, and need that word or phrase quickly.
The second one is a magic for finding something you've lost in

-- 562 of 676 --

LEX1GRAMS * 499
the house. (It also works for lost objects at a distance, but that's more
complicated.) 1 mean those times when you misplace something —
or when you've put it away so it won't get lost, then forget where you
put it — or those occasional times when a paper, a check or some
other item was there moments ago in front of your eyes, and seems to
have simply de-materialized; it's just nowhere to be found. Where
could it have gone ? It obviously can't have grown feet and walked
away !
Before I tell you the two magic mantras, you must be absolutely
certain that you understand this rule. You can't tune in to your Higher
S-elf until you firmly believe you can, without the faintest shadow of a
doubt. You must also understand that the first time a "magic sound
mantra" works, that's it. It will never fail to work after that. Do you
see why ? Because once you've observed the power of it is real, every
last tiny seed of negative doubt will have disappeared from your con-
scious mind. You'll then be as confident of it as you are when you flip
on a light switch, knowing so surely that the light will go on, you don't
even think about it — and you certainly don't pray "Oh, please, please
let the light go on !" It's more or less like that.
It's so simple. You say whichever of the following two sentences
apply — aloud. Then put the problem completely out of your mind,
and do something else — anything else. Within no longer than two
or three minutes, and usually within thirty to sixty seconds, the magic
will manifest. The word or name or whatever you haven't been able to
recall will pop up in your mind like an electric light bulb flashing —
or like a computer card read-out. Bang ! There it is ! Or . . . the
object you've lost or misplaced will magnetize you toward it. You'll
turn around, or take a few steps, after you've said your mantra and
dismissed it from your mind . . . and BAM ! there it is before you —
often in a spot where you've already looked and simply didn't see it.
Sometimes it will fall through the air, blown by a breeze from an open
window, or fall on the floor as you brush by it. That's when it can
seem very spooky.

-- 563 of 676 --

500 iV LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
1 Divine Spirit of my Higher Self, instantly — now — seed my mind
and my brain with that which I have forgotten. I ordain this,
under grace.
Thank you !
2 Divine Spirit of my Higher Self, instantly- — now — lead me di-
rectly to that which I have misplaced. \ ordain this, under grace.
Thank you ! (With this mantra, also image the item as you speak)
I've given up trying to find a way to fully express the wonder,
excitement and gratitude you'll feel when these two relatively minor
magics become a permanent part of your daily life.
I've found that I have two kinds of friends and acquaintances.
Those who laugh in embarrassment when I tell them about this magic
wand of words; that spoken words truly are a wand — and the other
ones who believe me, and with all the excitement, faith and innocence
of a child immediately try it, find that it works and won't stop talking
about it. They call me several times a week to shout over the tele-
phone "I did it again ! 1 did it again !" I'm very happy for the latter
ones, of course, but sometimes I do wish they would become accus-
tomed to the magic a little sooner — never take it for granted, of
course, but give me some peace !
Which kind are you ? If you're the latter kind, isn't it perfectly
marvelous never to have to worry about losing anything or forgetting
anything — ever again ?
Best of all, once you've mastered these two first steps toward
communication with your own Spirit, you can advance forward, creat-
ing your own mantras for whatever minor or major miracle you need
in your life for your happiness, as long as it doesn't bring unhappiness
to anyone else. u
For whatsoever thing you desire, pray as if you had
already received it, and you shall surely have it." That kind of praying
is the kind with power. It's called ordaining. "Ask, and it shall be
given you." "Knock, and it shall be opened." All three of these coun-
sels of the Nazarene referred explicitly to what you can infallibly ex-
it-

-- 564 of 676 --

LEXIGRAMS * 501
pe.ct when you tune in to your Higher Self with absolute confidence.
The major miracles take a little more time, but will manifest just as
surely. Time is not important. Only the certainty of the eventual
result.
* * * * * *
You will need to achieve a certain state of mind if you want to
receive the full benefits of lexigramming. Otherwise, you'll just be
playing anagrams,.. You must allow your Higher Self to take over your
thoughts until you reach a dreamlike state, difficult to describe. It
begins when a Lexigram stimulates your imagination to produce ideas
and images which seem to flow on their own, bringing a steady stream
of associated images. This sort of channeling occurs when you fall
into a half-conscious, half-dreamlike state of mind.
Mozart once explained that music came to him while he was
strolling through the mountain woodlands early in the morning. Mel-
odies would rush into his head in complete, finished compositions;
then he would dash home to set the notes down on paper.
•
Keats recalled that the inspiration for his description of Apollo in
the third book of Hyperion came to him in a manner he called "by
chance or- magic ... as if it were something given."
The poet Shelley described this state of "creative seizure" by writ-
ing . .
Sudden the shadow fell on me
I shrieked and clasped my hands in ecstasy
Shelley also observed that "When my brain gets heated with
thought, it soon boils and throws off images and words faster than I
can skim them off." This is the state of mind that will allow you to
penetrate mysteries through Lexigrams. It's somewhat like the famil-
iar question, "How will I know if I'm in love ?" . . . and the answer,

-- 565 of 676 --

502 *> LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
"When you are, you won't need to ask." The same may be said of the
state of mind allowing you to solve the mysteries hiding in Lexigrams.
You will know when you achieve it. No one can teach you but
yourself.
Don't forget that your Lexigram will be as individual as you are.
Remember I told you that Lexigrams often reveal as much about the
person calculating them as about themselves, in a son of mutual
enlightenment.
Since this is a chapter about words, it shouldn't end without an
attempt to penetrate the second most powerful word — the Word of
Creation — the Word with the power to manifest physical matter.
Yes, it comes second — after the word Love, which will always reign
supreme.
In the beginning was the WORD . . .
I wasn't certain when I began to write this chapter, but now I've
decided to share with you my own thought process involving a Lex-
igram concerning the sacred word of creation and its protection by the
word druids, down through the ages.
A legend, its origin lost in antiquity, claims that the Word shall be
rediscovered when Earthlings are sufficiently enlightened to ensure it
will not be misused as before discovered by Isis and Osiris, his
fourteen separated soul pieces joined in one man . . . "with all his
scattered pieces whole" . . . accompanied by the purified reincarnation
of their son, Horus . . . and that this rediscovery shall take place
during the Aquarian Age. That gives us roughly two thousand years
to manifest a universal thought transformation. Legend gives us little
more information than this, except that the Word will be sung or
chanted by these two, and their son, Horus, at a cosmic moment,
calculated astrologically. "... and the stars shall lead them."
Knowing that the druids are the protectors of all words, I medi- •

-- 566 of 676 --

LEXIGRAMS * 503
tated upon this for a very long time, wondering where this great resur-
rection of former glory would take place, in a geographical sense.
Remember the lines near the beginning of this chapter marked
with ******, I said might become important near its end ? It
was when we were considering why words are living entities . . . that
they fused or mated, produced children (hybrid words) . . . and so on.
These are the starred words:
Like any living thing, the English language keeps growing and
evolving, even leaving the fossils of "dead" words behind. * * *** *
As I wrote thai sentence in the diary I kept in Colorado, where I
had been sent by Nahtan to be taught some of the secret codes of the
Universe, I stopped suddenly. The sentence seemed to stand out on
the page in red letters. Especially the word fossils.
My mind spiraled instantly from the word fossils to rocks and
stones. Then came a memory fragment of a line from the stage play
and film Superstar . . . "the very rocks shall start to sing" ... a lyric
sung by Jesus on Palm Sunday, as he rode on a donkey.
Druids. Rocks. Stones. Fossils. I remembered how carefully I
had been taught by one of my Avatars that the nature spirit druids first
appeared in the Cehic area . . . that they were not the cruel druidic
priests who falsely used the term druidic for their ancient, evil rites in
England . . . at . . . Stonehenge.
Druids. Rocks. Stones. Fossils. England. English. Celtic.
Stonehenge. Stonehenge, the true home of the word druids. Once
again I glanced at the sentence I had just written: .... even leaving the
fossils of "dead" words behind. An image of Stonehenge flashed into my
mind, and I could see the shapes of those huge stones as clearly as if I
had been standing there, under a New Moon. They seemed to form
the letters of a word similar to a Hebrew word. Then I thought
that, if they moved slightly, they would take on a different shape and

-- 567 of 676 --

504 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
form. Swiftly came the thought of Osiris, levitating the huge stones
into position to form the Great Pyramid ... by chanting . . . singing
. . . producing sounds with the high frequency energy to levitate these
large chunks of "matter."
And I wondered . . . could it be that a certain sound, chanted at a
particular time ... by chosen ones . . . possesses the power to move
the stones of Stonehenge to form ... the sacred Word of creation ?
Has the Word been hiding there all these eons, waiting for the en-
lightenment of Earthlings to be once more spoken ?
This is what I mean by spiraling ....
The next thought was formed from a logical progression of these
musings. What would happen if I lexigrammed three words: Druids
of Stonehenge ? I decided to omit the word the, as in The Druids of
Stonehenge, because I wanted to be sure the revelation of the Lex-
igram was clear, and the fewer words the better. Anyway, the letters
of the, t — h — and e, are already contained within the word Stone-
henge itself.
Would the Lexigram verify the legend . . . and my own illumina-
tion ? It could have said so many things.
First, I tried to lexigram The Great Pyramid, and you've already
seen its message. The Great Pyramid obviously is not the place where
the prophecy will be fulfilled. But . . . is Stonehenge the place ?
Here is my Lexigram. No other sacred location on Earth I've lexi-
grammed in my quest contains these singing messages. The word
druids allowed me to discover their secret. And now I share it with
you.
Some of you won't even be interested in it. Others will find it
amusing, but not of any serious import. But there may be a few of you
who will tune into the musical chords of the vibratory frequency of the
Druids oj Stonehenge Lexigram's deeper mystery.

-- 568 of 676 --

LEXIGRAMS * 505
DRUIDS OF STONEHENGE
THE ONE NOTE IS NOT GONE
THE DRUIDS HID IT HERE IN THE RUINS EONS AGO
AS THE SUN ROSE
• IT IS HIDDEN IN THE HUGE STONES ... SEE THE STONES ? •
OSIR (i) IS (i) S GUIDED HERE (by) DRUIDS
TO SING THE TRUE NOTE FOR US (at) SUNRISE
THEIR SON HORUS GUIDED HERE TOO ... TO SING
THE TRUE TONE
A SONG SUNG AT SUNRISE
THE GREAT GODS (HE-SHE) ORDAINED THIS
THIS IS RIGHT (and) THIS IS TRUE
A SONG OF GOODNESS SUNG (at) SUNRISE
THESE THREE (shall be) LED THERE by THE DRUIDS
HORUS IS HIS SON (Osiris) . . . HORUS IS HER SON (lsis)
STONEHENGE SINGS TO US !
SEE HIS TEARS ? SEE HER ROSES ?
HEAR THE STONES " OH ! HEAR THEIR SONG !
.*:
SOON

-- 569 of 676 --

506 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
*****************************
A LEXIGRAM POSTSCRIPT
a mystery
for your contemplation . . . and elation
*************
A second Lexigram of Jesus of Nazareth
with secrets the word druids hid from us
in the first one
JESUS OF NAZARETH
JESUS NEAR TO NATURE . . . AND TO THE SEA
JESUS (is) THE SON OF THE SUN
HE HEARS THE ONE TRUE NOTE OF THE STONES
AT STONEHEN(G)E
!
JESUS (and) OS(I)R(I)S ARE ONE
HEAR THE STONES
<

-- 570 of 676 --

LEXIGRAMS * 507
HEAR THE STONES
HEAR THE STONES
SEE HER ROSES ? SEE HER TEARS ?
Claire Faverone, Francesco's "Lady Poverty," had a rose garden at
San Damiano, the church rebuilt by Francis in Assisi. Her roses were
her greatest pleasure. Legend says that she and Mary, the Mother,
Mary Magdalene and Isis are pieces of the same soul — the Twin Self
of Jesus, Francis and Osiris.
HEAR THOSE NOTES ... SEE THOSE HEARTS
THOSE TONES, THOSE HEARTS AROSE . . . (and) ARE ONE

-- 571 of 676 --

508 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
Artist: Rob Schouten
Visionary Publishing. Inc.
Isis Unlimited BcverlV Hills. C'a.
Stonehenge, England

-- 572 of 676 --

9
PHYSICAL IMMORTALITY
a thought transformation,
leading to the achievement of
cell regeneration
*

-- 573 of 676 --

This chapter is dedicated to:
Annette and Robert Kemery . . . and Pauline Goodman
the three most magical Earthlings I know
with much love
and a promise for tomorrow

-- 574 of 676 --

PHYSICAL IMMORTALITY * 511
"I am weary
of religious and spiritual abracadabra
the churches have failed
can't you see that the churches have all failed ?
and the biggest ghost story of them all
the biggest ghost-hoax of all Christian churches
is the Easter resurrection conception
which is nothing but a cruel deception
a cruel deception !
a joke played on the broken-hearted and bereaved
a joke of such poor taste
and I tell you ... I swear that I will not be so deceived !"
my voice, then, shattered into bitter splinters
of remembered cold and lonely winters
and I could not continue
he slowly shook his head
and his voice was low and
gentle
when he spoke . . .
"no, the resurrection of Jesus
is hot a joke
it is quite literal
more tangible and real than
anything you feel
at this moment ...
Easter is Truth !
******

-- 575 of 676 --

512 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
hen an ancient building, built on a strong founda-
tion, has outlived its time and must be destroyed so
that a new building may be constructed on its site,
there is only one way to accomplish such a transfor-
mation of matter. Dynamite. An explosion.
Likewise, when an ancient falsehood, built on a strong founda-
tion of lies seeded into the mass collective subconscious for thousands
upon thousands of years, has outlived its time and must be destroyed
so that a new realization may replace it, there is only one way to
accomplish such a transformation of thought. Dynamite. An
explosion.
The words in this chapter may very well be perceived by your
falsely programmed brain as an unexpected blast of dynamite. An
overload, to use a common computer term, since the brain is, after all,
the ultimate computer. Close your mind against the initial shock if
you must, but keep your soul open. Later, your mind may join it in a
new realization, and you could experience a thought transformation.
At the outset, let's face the prime objection most people give as
their reason for believing that physical immortality is impossible be-
cause of being impractical. You may ask yourself, "Even if I should
want to live eternally in my present body, without the repeated coma
of death and rebirth, such a thing could never be possible for every
human on Earth. Already we're facing worldwide famine, just around
the corner — so, with new babies being conceived and born every
hour, if everyone achieved eternal life and never died — the Earth
would become so overpopulated as to be unthinkable."
Your argument is understandable, and appears to be reasonable.
However, there is a beautifully harmonious, sensible and even logical
solution to this apparent flaw in physical immortality for everyone —
and it does not include a mandate that men and women who become
immortals not mate or reproduce. Babies will still be born. Yet, there
will be no overpopulation.

-- 576 of 676 --

PHYSICAL IMMORTALITY * 513
I realize this seems to be a contradiction, a non sequitur, but it is
not. The explanation, while surprisingly simple, nevertheless requires
a foundation of layered esoteric knowledge to be properly understood,
and once again I must apologize for the necessity of telling you that
my own teachers have counseled me to offer the answer in the long-
delayed but forthcoming Gooberz, giving as a reason that revealing it
now would be premature. The situation echoes once more the an-
cient adage quoted, of necessity, so often in this book: When the stu-
dent is ready, the teacher will appear.
Meanwhile, you can move forward to begin now to achieve eter-
nal life, if that should be your desire. By the time you've chosen to do
so, and have begun to practice it, the answer to the overpopulation
question will be available — and you may even be able to answer it for
yourself ,before then.
Until the dawning of the golden Age of Aquarius, only a rare few
dreamed of physical immortality — eternal life in the same, but con-
tinually improved and transfigured flesh body. Others have believed
in it only as a possibility for a few initiated Masters, the founders of the
world's religions (some of them). Today, however, those who ponder
such a possibility for themselves are increasing in number. More peo-
ple are beginning to realize that physical immortality is actually the
foundation of genuine religion.
Yes, physical immortality — eternal life in the material sense —
was the original cornerstone of all religions, worn away by the ravages
of illusionary time, and replaced by false deathist dogma and doc-
trines. The Christian Bible says accurately that "God hath put eternity
into the heart of man." And into the heart of woman too.
Yet today's religions, and even the new occult movements, con-
tinue to sell the "glory of death" concept.
During recent years there have been various attempts to break the
stern and dreary deathist philosophy by portraying the experience of
death as almost a fun thing, floating around like a balloon in the eth-

-- 577 of 676 --

514 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
ers, and gazing down on the discarded cocoon of the flesh body — or
flying dreamily in and out and around the Moon or Pluto on a glitter-
ing silver cord, in what is intimated to be a kind of practice session for
death.
The "silver cord" is actually seen by the Third Eye as sparkling
silver, possessing an unlimited stretch capacity, and is not only a visi-
ble cord — but also an audible (to the inner ear) musical chord of
extremely high frequency. In one of the incidents dramatized in the
television mini-series Out on a Limb, actress Shirley MacLaine re-
marked that her own astral trip on her silver cord ended the instant
she imaged "limitation," when she wondered if her silver cord would
stretch far enough for her to actually touch the Moon she saw herself
approaching. True. A thought of any kind of limitation instantly
blows the fuse in all attempted magic, including the magical reality of
physical immortality.
All these attempts to erase the dread of death are admirably moti-
vated. They're saying, in effect, "Don't be afraid. Dying is a mar-
velous trip. You'll love it !" But such images are impotent to defeat
and permanently destroy death. They succeed only in making it a
shade more palatable, and they certainly don't do anything to comfort
the bereaved, those grief-stricken loved ones left behind- when the
dead go flying off into the cosmos on their silver cords.
These silver-cord-astral- trips may occur during sleep, or in
trance, under the proper conditions, but they are not "mini-deaths,"
arid are not "dress rehearsals" for an inevitable and final "crossing
over."
By the way, it's interesting and meaningful to contemplate the
similarity between the silver cord attached to the body while astral
traveling (or dying) ... the umbilical cord of the newborn infant,
attached to its mother . . . and the cord attached between the mother
ship (space capsule) and an astronaut landing on the Moon. The
three experiences are closely related.

-- 578 of 676 --

PHYSICAL IMMORTALITY * 515
Today's religious leaders on the stages of church, synagogue and
television who are so cheerfully selling death as pie-in-the-sky, some-
where out there in the-great-by-and-by, have failed dismally to man-
ifest the third and fourth lines of the Lord's Prayer: Thy Kingdom come,
Thy will be done . . . on Earth, as it is in Heaven. They have not been
successful in creating Heaven on Earth, and they never will be, the
way they've been going about it. Religions rely upon the goodness of
their various founding Immortals to bring about such a miracle.
But it's not the Immortals who seeded their spiritual doctrines
who cause the wars, sicknesses, disasters, personal misery and "man's
inhumanity to man" (and animals) on Earth. These evils are caused
by mortals, playing carelessly with their Free Will Tinker Toys. And
the only way to end this hell on Earth (which, in case you haven't yet
noticed, has always been its geographical location) is to turn all of
Earth's mortals into immortals, because the process will not only
"wipe away all tears from their eyes," as John prognosticated in Revela-
tions, but will also remove all desire to be evil from their hearts and
minds. "And there shall be no more death."
The truth is that all mortals were once immortals. Even you.
You only need to both remember and realize this for the battle to be
won, the victory to be yours. Victory is the thought transformation
resulting from comprehending that physical immortality — perpetual
longevity, sans illness and aging — eternal, healthy, youthful life in
your living flesh is not a fantasy, but a practical and attainable •
possibility.
The Hindu Hatha Yoga Masters in India who have already
achieved it (and there are more of them than you've ever dreamed)
claim that at least half if not more of the people alive in the 1980s may
learn how to live forever in continually increasing health and
youthfulness, by simply the knowing of this truth, which will, in turn,
bestow mastery over the physical body. Naturally, there are certain
disciplines to follow, but the first step is a releasing of your religion-
seeded loyalty to death. That takes immense effort, admittedly, but

-- 579 of 676 --

516 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
it's certainly worth a try, isn't it ? You have nothing to lose and a lot to
gain. And believe it or not, dying takes much more effort.
Why ? Because physical immortality is natural — and death is
unnatural. Therefore, people need to exert so much (subconscious)
effort to die that it causes illness and pain. Ask yourself if you choose
to remain among the masses of humanity who have subjected them-
selves as slaves to a deathist theology that condemns them into finally
sacrificing their bodies to dust — or to the extinguishing fire of crema-
tion. To worship the grave, if you'll pardon the pun about such a
serious issue, is a grave offense against both truth and happiness.
The High Priests of deathist philosophy are the Life Insurance
companies, who keep telling you that "the life span is . .
." and every-
one accepts this illusionary number as gospel. In the time of Francis
of Assisi, the imaginary "life span" was not much past forty, which is
why they married at twelve .and thirteen. In the time of Moses, it was
around six hundred years, during the Civil War about fifty-five or
sixty. Now they dictate that the arbitrary "life span," based, one pre-
sumes, on the. age of people who have died each decade, is eighty.
Obediently, then, in submissive follow-the-leader fashion, men and
women check that illusionary double number on the calendar, and
when they're getting close, make out their wills and wait to die.
Someone once said that thoughts are angels, and some thoughts
are, like this one: You are alive now, and so obviously your current
and true life urges are stronger than your programmed death urges.
As long as you continue to strengthen your life urges, and ignore your
programmed death urges, you'll go on living. Read this thought over
and over until you completely comprehend what it's saying.
You die because you believe you must, and you believe it because
your computer brain has been falsely programmed that it's a neces-
sity. Not only has your brain been programmed, your mind and soul
have both been subjected to mass hypnosis from parents, relatives,
friends, radio, television, newspapers and magazines. You die because

-- 580 of 676 --

PHYSICAL IMMORTALITY * 517
you're reacting and predictably responding to post-hypnotic sugges-
tion. Your mind and soul have submitted to it (the soul more reluc-
tantly) — but your Spirit (Overself, Higher Angel of your S-elf, the
you-of-you) knows better. Ask the wise Guru of your own S-elf, and
He or She will level with you about the myth of dying.
Just the belief in death is enough to kill you, even without acci-
dent or disease. This is what medical people call "dying of nothing
specific except old age."
All deaths are suicides, do you realize that ? Every single one.
The only distinction is that, with some people, suicide is a subcon-
scious choice — and with others it's a conscious choice. Otherwise,
those who commit suicide and those who succumb to accident, illness
or "old age," die for exactly the same reason: belief in the inevitability
of death. In America, suicide is 'against the law — a punishable
crime. In a way that's amusing, since it can only apply to unsuccessful
suicide attempts. The successful ones are obviously beyond the reach
of the law. Actually, all deaths are against the law — the law of eternal
life — but it's too late after the "guilty ones" have escaped what re-
ligion and even the new occult movements call "the prison of the
flesh," and traveled to a different dimension.
Now, there is the real culprit — the concept of "the prison of the
flesh." No wonder everyone longs to escape, eyen though they're ner-
vous and apprehensive about what happens after the '"prison break-
out." Who wants to remain in prison ? But . . . is the flesh body,
called the Temple of the soul — a prison ? It is only when you fail to
understand what is meant by "keeping one foot on Earth and one foot
in Heaven."
Before continuing, let's understand that the following terms are
synonymous: Higher Self ... the Angel of the Higher Self ... the
Overself ... the Supraconscious . . . and the Spirit. All of them are
terms for the real you-of-you. They are interchangeable. For clarity
and brevity, now that this has been explained, I'm going to choose to

-- 581 of 676 --

518 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
use the term Spirit when I'm referring to the you-of-you. But remem-
ber that your Spirit is not a synonym for, not the same as — your
soul. The "Spirit" and the "soul" are two different terms describing
two separate parts of the "holy trinity" of you. (See drawing on Page
116, Chapter 3.)
You were once, countless forgotten eons ago, a Spirit. You still
are, essentially, but now you are a Spirit —plus a Mind and a Soul — a
flesh body and an astral body. One might say you have more or less
cloned your S-elf.(Your S-elf is another synonym to add to the forego-
ing synonyms for your Spirit.)
I employed the*word clone because it describes what I'm trying to
explain. But don't ever forget that modem mans attempt to clone the
flesh body is against Universal Law. Cloning may be successfully ac-
complished only when it has been chosen for complex reasons by the
Spirit of an Adept, Avatar, Guru, Master or Immortal (these terms also
being synonymous to each other). Cloning attempted by the un-
enlightened — and modern science is, to date, about as synonymous
with the word unenlightened as you can get — is doomed to failure,
fated to collapse from its own weight of negativity — and will be
halted by our Creators before it causes irreversible harm.
Returning to those countless forgotten eons ago, you were once a
pure Spirit. A Spirit who (not which, but who) existed in a higher
dimension, now called "Heaven," where there was (is) no illness, no
aging, no death, no murder, no theft, no envy, no violence or anything
else of a negative and unhappy "nature" — and no Time — with a
body in every way identical to physical bodies, except composed of a
finer substance. In every way but . . . certain differences related to
particular organs of the body, which need not concern you quite yet.
In appearance, identical. That's the thing to know.
One fine day your own Creators divinely decided to create in-
finite zillions — many times over the number of grains of sand on this
planet — infinite zillions of dense physical dimensions of matter

-- 582 of 676 --

PHYSICAL IMMORTALITY * 519
called Eden Heavens (each with its own solar system) — Eden Heav-
ens called Earths only after the "fall" of each, brought about when
certain immutable laws of each planet's Mother Nature were dis-
obeyed. Before such transgression, there was no Time here, as there
was no Time in the higher astral dimension of "Heaven." There were
two Suns; consequently no darkness on the face of the planet. With-
out darkness, Time cannot be measured. And the Earth did not spin,
so there was no gravity. I know all this opens up a Pandora's box of
questions, and some of them will be answered later on in this chap-
ter. Some must wait for later books.
Through your precious gift of Free Will choice, you decided, as
did other Spirits, to exist partly on this planet, this mirror-reflection of
the higher Heaven dimension, and partly in the higher dimension
itself (the real world), keeping, in a manner of speaking, one foot in
Heaven, and one foot in the Eden Heaven now called Earth. Other
Spirits did not so choose, and remain, even now . . . Angels.
To accomplish such a dual existence, you created a flesh or phys-
ical, material body, in your own (your Spirit's) image, with an astral
body superimposed — as the vehicle for those round trips between
dimensions. Again, see the drawing on Page 116, Chapter 3.
This original physical body was, unfortunately, due to "free-will-
ful" disobedience of Universal Law, later to multiply itself through
many thousands (in some cases, many millions) of successive flesh
incarnations. i
Your Spirit cloned itself, gave birth to or created this original
material, physical body in imitation of your Creators' act of giving
birth to (creating) this Eden Heaven, in this solar system (and an in-
finite number of others) — later called Earth. And since it was a
physical, material world of matter, this mirror-reflection of "Heaven"
(the higher dimension), your Spirit needed a material, physical, flesh
body, in order to experience its delights, which are presently called
the five senses: taste, touch, sight, smell and sound.

-- 583 of 676 --

520 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
Actually, in the beginning, there were six, not five senses neces-
sary to keep "one foot on Earth, and one foot in Heaven." Have you
ever heard anyone remark that u
he must have a sixth sense V Before
defining the elusive sixth sense, let's try a Lexigram code. As we dis-
cussed earlier, Jesus spent pan of his eighteen "lost years," which were
removed from the Christian Scriptures — with the Essenes. The word
ESSENES contains within it the letters of the word SENSES. The spiral
thought thus initiated by Lexigrams may seed a question in your
mind. Did the Essenes possess all six senses, and was one of the
magics they taught the carpenter from Nazareth how to regain,
strengthen and use the sixth sense ?
You might think of your sixth sense as having the "good sense" to
remember, therefore realize that you can travel back and forth be-
tween the two dimensions of Heaven and Earth as often as you choose,
whenever you like, using sometimes your flesh body, sometimes your
astral body, and sometimes both at once, depending on the require-
ments for any particular trip. And don't forget your numerology
lesson about the number 6 (as in sixth sense) which is the number of
Venus . . . and Love.
The brilliant crystal of the sixth sense is reflected in many prisms,
such as: human auras and Third Eye vision (your contact with the
Higher Realms) telepathy, teleportation, psychometry, esp, clairau-
dience, clairvoyance, sensitivity, intuition and so on. But, in general,
the sixth sense has been dulled by an eons-old amnesia of the mind
and soul, which has short-circuited or cut off their communication
with your Spirit.
The Spirits who chose to create and occupy (part-time) flesh
bodies, so that they might experience the pleasures of the senses, by
losing the sixth sense, also lost touch with their minds and souls, and
consequently lost control of both the physical and astral "puppet
bodies" they once divinely manipulated with the wisdom of Love and
Light — breaking the line of communication between the world in

-- 584 of 676 --

PHYSICAL IMMORTALITY * 521
which the Spirit dwells and the world of matter where the physical
body dwells, with its superimposed astral body "spacecraft."
When the mind and the soul once more communicate with the
Spirit, acting as intermediaries, then the Spirit may once more guide
the physical and astral bodies in manifesting the magic and miracles of
the beginning "faerie tale" world on Earth, of which the faerie tales of
old are a transparent image, a faint echo.
Each mind and soul at last became so emeshed in the vicarious
pleasures of the five physical senses experienced through the material
body, they no longer remembered that the astral body possessed a
sixth sense, giving them a round-trip ticket between "Heaven" and
"Earth," with no cancellation date.
„ The real and actual presence of the Spirit was likewise forgotten;
the vital communication with Him or Her cut off. Another revealing
Lexigram to spiral your thoughts: the word COMMUNICATION
contains the word COMMUNION — and both words contain UNION.
Instead of the original intent to keep "one foot in Heaven, and one foot
on Earth," both "feet" (symbolically) became firmly planted on Earth.
The only traveling between here and other levels the majority of Earth-
lings do presently is through the dangerously deceptive hegiras of hal-
lucinatory drugs — in trance — or during sleep. None of these trips
are satisfactory because they're followed by spiritual amnesia, as the
astral experiences called dreams are distorted through the "scrambling
device" in the brain, much like the one on the President's telephone.
Just as "it wouldn't be-much fun to visit Europe and remember nothing
when you return. You can't even bring back postcards or photographs
as souvenirs of your astral travels. Perhaps an occasional nightmare,
but that's hardly ideal.
Yet, without sleep the physical body would die. It's literally kept
alive, refueled and refreshed by these hazy astral trips to your "Heaven
home." Not all trips are to the higher dimension of your Spirit. Some
are to different levels of awareness. You might call it time traveling, as
your astral body is transported, on its silver cord, to the experiences of

-- 585 of 676 --

522 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
flesh body
Third Eye
astral
The "circle" is
symbolic only. Your
Overself of Higher
Self is, in
appearence, exactly
like your physical
body, which was
created in its image,
except for one
difference, which
need not yet concern
you.
Past, Present and Future incarnations, which exist simultaneously in
the relativity of time and space. Such trips are the source of the
flashes everyone periodically feels that "this has happened before."
You may have visited next Friday during your sleep last Thursday.
Unfortunately, each return to this world takes a heavy toll on the
dense body, because of a lack of communication with your Higher Self
(the puppeteer). Consequently, your physical body needs a re-charge
of its battery every twenty-four hours or so. But even these periodic
sleep charges can't halt its gradual deterioration due to gravity. Phys-
ical gravity and mental gravity. Take charge of the latter, and you can
control the former. More about the "gravity" of the subject of gravity a

-- 586 of 676 --

PHYSICAL IMMORTALITY * 523
little later. Understanding it is an urgent necessity for those who
choose to live, and not to die. Well return to it.
Ultimately, the human body is an energy system. Anyone can
learn to de-materialize and re-materialize the human form by master-
ing the nature of the body as light. Even though, in your present state
of forgetfulness of your divine powers, you use only your astral body
on these trips to the higher dimension — and other levels of past,
present and future, it's possible to travel there and back, taking along
both your astral and physical body, once you get the hang of it. Meta-
physician Analee Skarin has written that "death is the dreary back
door into other worlds, but there is a great front door for those who
overcome" — (who overcome gravity). The door between the higher
dimension of "Heaven" and Earth can swing both ways for immortals
who realize their potential of eternal life. On a microcosm level,
wouldn't it be dreadfully dreary and a bit of a bother if, every time a
friend or loved one went to visit Disneyland or Aunt Ethel, they never
returned ? It's ever so much nicer all the way round for everyone
when all such visiting consists of round trips, whether astral or phys-
ical, don't you agree ?
We'll discuss the how-to-do-it aspect of eternal life and physical
immortality shortly, but now we need to further discuss the concept in
general, at least those readers who are still in shock from the very idea
of it need further discussion, so they can apply some logic to measure
its truth. There is logic to it, yes, there is, as you'll soon see, enough I
trust, to satisfy even a biologist or a physicist. First, however, you
must be convinced that it's attainable, that you already possess immor-
tal life. You've only forgotten that you do. I'll try my best to accom-
plish this. But I'm only a channel for a message from a higher level of
awareness, and all I can do is plant the seeds. Your own Free Will
controls whether or not they blossom and bear fruit.
Physical death is unnatural. Neither is it a free trip to Heaven, as
most religions would have you believe, because its consequence is
repeated rebirth into flesh bodies, until you're enlightened to

-- 587 of 676 --

524 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
truth. "Seek the truth, and it shall set you free." This counsel from the
Avatar-Adept, Jesus, cannot be repeated too frequently. The people of
his time could not and would not have comprehended the whole truth
at their stage of evolvement, so it was necessary to impart wisdom to
them in parable form, many of which seem like mystical riddles,
which is, more or less, what they are.
Eternal life is natural, a truth which always was, is now and ever
shall be. You are now and always have been in harmony with it, but
you Ve been programmed to believe you're not, and this false belief
causes you to gradually destroy your body, a body intended to survive
as long as the Earth survives.
The difference between one person and another — between, for
instance, a mortal and an immortal — is what they think about.
Whatever thoughts and ideas are in the mind have the power to pro-
duce direct results in the body. The body is totally obedient to the
ideas and thoughts in the mind. Therefore, what you think about
habitually will become dominant, and possess the greatest power to
control your body.
What most people think about habitually, after a certain illusion-
ary chronological number called "age," is death. And so, the body I
obeys, becomes ill and dies.
Those of you who have taken these remarks about physical im-
mortality seriously may be wondering, "How does this affect the law of :|
Karma ?" An excellent question.
Whether you decide to allow your present physical body to live
or die, you cannot escape the law of Karma — but don't forget that j
you experience karmic rewards, as well as karmic retribution. Also
remember that there are ways to dilute or even negate the latter. (See I
Chapter 4, "Deja Vu.")
To choose eternal life in your present flesh body does not remove
your Karma. But you would be paying (and receiving) it anyway, so J
K:

-- 588 of 676 --

PHYSICAL IMMORTALITY * 525
nothing will change there, except that the very act of choosing not to
die, the very realization that death is not a necessity, will negate a great
deal of the unpleasant Karma of past incarnations.
The supreme demonstration of this is the incident of the two
criminals who were crucified with the Nazarene. Translating that in-
cident into modern idiom, one of the criminals began to sarcastically
taunt Jesus as he hung on the cross in agony, reminding him that he
was supposed to be "the son of God," therefore why didn't he call on
his omnipotent Father to miraculously rescue all three of them ? The
other criminal quickly spoke up in defense of Jesus, saying, in so
many words, "Leave him alone. We deserve to be here, because we
have committed great sins. He is innocent, and should not be ques-
tioned." Whereupon the Nazarene turned to the second man who
spoke, and said, "Verily, verily, this day thou shalt be with me in
Heaven."
I'm aware that most translations use the word Paradise instead of
"Heaven," but I happen to believe Jesus used the latter term. Fve
always mistrusted the word PARADISE, since it contains the words
RAPE and DIE (albeit also ARISE), whereas HEAVEN Lexigrams into
HAVEN and EVE (there's a reason for that, but it doesn't belong in this
book) — also EVEN — and Heaven is where everything is balanced
evenly (harmoniously).
The word Heaven, a.k.a. paradise, is synonymous with enlighten-
ment. (Even though lower-case paradise is suspect.) Metaphysicians
translate this crucifixion incident as allegorical to the "spontaneous
remission" of Karma. In other words, the very act of faith
demonstrated by the second criminal — complete faith in a man who
was despised by all, deserted by his few friends, apparently possessing
no power, and who appeared to .be impotent to save others or him-
self — was an act of faith so powerful, so pulsating with conviction
and innocence in the face of all contrary evidence, that it
balanced the man's karmic scales, allowing that particular physical

-- 589 of 676 --

526 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
body to die totally free of the chains of Karma (until and unless in a
future incarnation he created new Karma for himself)-
It's certainly fair to assume that anyone who dares to face friends,
relatives and the world today with an outspoken, unashamed and
confident belief in physical immortality, despite all the vast program-
ming otherwise, is demonstrating an act of faith of equal weight in the
karmic scales as that of the man crucified with Jesus.
The danger of creating new negative Karma (becoming a fallen
angel) is always there for the man or woman who chooses (again)
immortality, as it was when your Spirit originally chose to spend part-
time in a physical, flesh body. Nothing has changed there.either, ex-
cept that choosing eternal life gives one a new slate and a new oppor-
tunity to also choose not to create new negative Karma.
Ask yourself this: Is not a person more likely to create new nega- | r
tive Karma when he or she is still suffering from spiritual amnesia of V
past incarnations — cannot recall what transgression brought on pre-
sent "bad luck" — and can't become too interested in a hazy, dim, 1
uncertain future incarnation when present negative acts must be ,
atoned for and balanced ? Isn't that person's attitude likely to be P
^ho cares" ?
Conversely, however, when a person has demonstrated the great
act of faith of totally believing and practicing physical immortality, J
*
knowing, therefore, that he or she is now under the law of "instant" i
Karma — and that the karmic scales will be balanced, not in some
misty future life, but in this very present and continuing life, with total i
recall, the karmic retribution occurring to this present identify and L
flesh body — would that person not be far less likely to create new
negative Karma, and be far more likely to earnestly attempt to create
new positive Karma ? Too many books on Karma neglect to teach that
there is both positive and negative karmic cause and effect.
Therefore, when physical immortality has been chosen and
achieved by more and more Earthlings the negative behavior causing

-- 590 of 676 --

PHYSICAL IMMORTALITY * 527
Earth's unhappiness will gradually and finally cease. The pollution of
the planet will stop when those responsible for it become immortal,
and realize that it's themselves, not "future generations," who will in-
herit the wasteland caused by nuclear madness and other forms of
destruction of the water and air in our environment.
We fear acid rain and the holes being torn in the Earth's ozone
layer, endangered species and a multitude of acts of violence and cru-
elty to Mother Earth and her creatures. Yet-, the belief that death is
inevitable — that death is beyond an individual's control — is still the
biggest killer of all. The belief that "God" is out there somewhere, but
not on Earth, and not within the flesh body. Fortunately, this belief is
gradually being replaced by the dawning awareness that each man and
each woman is God to his or her own body. Immortals clearly have
the greatest motivation for ecology — for sanity in politics — for
technology that helps, but doesn't kill — for universal prosperity.
'
Immortal humans also have all the Earth time they need to mas-
ter body, purification techniques, including the mastery of eating hab-
its and sleep with conscious recall of astral experience. What I mean
by the mastery of eating habits is explained in Chapter 4. Improper
eating and lack of control over sleep are barriers to total awareness.
Many people have no desire to conquer death and live forever
because they image themselves living in ill and aged bodies, but this is
in direct contradiction to the real meaning of physical immortality.
Your body was gloriously designed by your Spirit, as your Spirit's
body was gloriously designed by your Creators, to be eternal. Your
flesh body is a self-sustaining electromagnetic battery, forever capable
of being recharged with energy, continually improved and transmuted
into perfection through the process of cell regeneration. And it all
begins in your mind.
Through the process of cell regeneration you can accomplish ei-
ther (a) age prevention — or (b) age reversal, if necessary — and free
your material body of all disease and imperfection. Don't look to the

-- 591 of 676 --

528 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
medical profession. Look to. yourself. "Physician, heal thyself." The
choice is yours and yours alone, whether you're eighteen or eighty by
illusionary chronological measurement. If you're eighteen, you must
learn how to prevent aging, in order to conquer disease and death. If
you're eighty, you must learn how to reverse aging, in order to con-
quer disease and death. These are simply polarities of the same magic.
The eternal and suppressed, long-buried truth is that you may
exist within your present body, and continually improve it, for as
many centuries or eons as you desire — all the way to eternity or
forever — healthy, youthful and fully functioning, projecting and ac-
tually being whatever chronological "age" you wish, based on the hu-
man concept of these impotent "numbers." Some Master Avatars and
Adepti who have become physically immortal deliberately choose to
project and be, for however long or brief a period as they may prefer
— the present "image" of the illusionary chronological age of forty,
fifty or sixty, in order to be believed by those still mortal to be worthy
of respect, so that they may successfully teach. (It's difficult to possess
several doctorates and master's degrees and appear to be twenty or
thirty.) However, in the final analysis, each newly immortal man or
woman may choose to project and be any chronological "age" seen
individually as ideal, switching the numbers around at his or her op-
tion, from "time" to "time." Rather like pressing the control switches
on your washer from hot to cold to warm, whichever suits your cur-
rent needs.
Whether you choose to believe it or not (I believe it, because I
have impeccable cause to do so) — there are many among you who
are already immortals. And before they became so, they were no dif-
ferent from you ... or me. One of the problems of achieving eternal
life in the same physical body while so many millions of mortals have
not been thus enlightened, they tell me ... is the problem of the
programming of chronological age.
These Avatars and Adepti are forced, therefore, to pretend to
"die" at whatever chronological age any current time period "requires"

-- 592 of 676 --

PHYSICAL IMMORTALITY * 529
based on the "life span" then expected of them. He or she simply
disappears, and is presumed dead, with the body never found, or
never actually identified. Then the Avatar turns up in a different part
of the world, with a new identity, a new birth date and a few friends
(other Avatars) to substantiate the false birth date, when necessary.
It's really quite a bother, they claim, and one can see why. It will be
much easier when immortality catches on.
Just imagine what happens when a true Adept (immortal) an-
nounces to someone who asks his or her age, Tm six hundred years
old, going on seven hundred, as calculated by your erroneous Earth
Time." (Or two thousand, going on three thousand, as the case may
be.) What happens depends on the period of history. During one
time period, such a person would have been labeled a witch or a
warlock, and burned at the stake. During a later time period, such an
answer would have condemned the Avatar to an insane asylum. To-
day, in the Aquarian Age ? Well, we're gaining ground. Such an an-
swer to an age inquiry presently wouldn't result in being burned at the
stake or committed to the funny house. But it probably would result
in the loss of a certain degree of credibility, eliciting such whispers as:
"George is obviously a most brilliant person, quite intellectual really,
but a little . . . well, you know . . . weird. I don't think he's playing
with a full deck." Or words to that effect.
Since credibility is needed for teaching truth and for other mis-
sions of immortals, that's not the ideal type of response an Avatar
'desires, even though it's an undeniable improvement over yesterday's
witch burnings and asylums. Whether one is immortal or mortal, it
takes courage to face a loss of respect and credibility.
By the way, did you know that, among the many "crimes" women
(and a few men) were accused and found guilty of during the shameful
witch burnings in Salem and other places, mostly by the Catholic
Church, a large percentage included the "crime" of agelessness ?
Many witches went up in flames because their neigh-
bors swore under oath as to their birth dates, yet they looked and

-- 593 of 676 --

530 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
J behaved many decades younger than their dates of birth indicated
most interesting bit of history, strongly suggesting that many of these
"witches" were immortals.
No wonder that the secret knowledge of age reversal and physical
immortality was buried even deeper around that time period. Most
enlightened ones, not possessing the financial means to pop up in
Europe or somewhere with a new identity, chose the unpleasant path
of aging and death to being tied up to a stake and having their bodies
set afire. That's one of the most painful deaths imaginable. Poor Joan
of Arc was turned into a human torch simply because she honestly
revealed her powers of clairaudience. Even today, "hearing voices"
can get you a sanity hearing if you're careless about the people in
whom you confide. Shhh ! Silence is, indeed, under certain circum-
stances — golden.
I'll interject here a personal incident, based on a commitment test
of spiritual honesty I've been taught is necessary to the complete
achievement of immortality. Two or three Earth years ago, I was in-
terviewed by a Capricorn reporter from a Denver newspaper. The
article about me closed with these words: "Goodman was asked her
age, but refused to answer, based on her explanation that any discus-
sion of chronological age is against her spiritual beliefs. However,
when pressed, she finally admitted to being four hundred."
I'm still trying to figure out if the reporter wrote that with a
straight face or with his tongue in his cheek. Since he was a Capricorn
(the astrological sign of reverse aging), it may have been the former. I
doubt if I would have been so courageous in Salem. As an Aries all
through the past four hundred years, I have a very low pain threshold,
and I'm a shameful coward about burns. Not only would a flaming
torch have intimidated me into projecting four hundred years of wrin-
kles, an asylum would have been an even more frightening alternative,
with everyone claiming he or she was Napoleon or Josephine. I must
digress for a moment, because I'm reminded of an old joke with a
hidden meaning related to these matters.

-- 594 of 676 --

PHYSICAL IMMORTALITY * 531
A man in an asylum was always strutting around with one hand
thrust in his nightshirt, wearing a hat with a feather, and shouting to
everyone within earshot, "I am Napoleon Bonaparte ! I am Napo-
leon ! And I won the battle of Waterloo ! The history books lie !"
One day, as he was thus proclaiming his message, an elderly man
sitting on the floor in the corner rose up and asked, "Who told you
that you are Napoleon ?" "God told me !" came the offended "Napol-
eon's" reply. Then, from another corner of the room, a man with a
white beard stood up, and, with great dignity, announced in a ringing
voice, "I did not !"
The Denver newspaper interview incident has a moral. This is
one of the steps in the how-to-do-it process of achieving eternal life.
To question the necessity of the deathist theology, whether seriously
or with a sense of humor, is a blow against death. Some of you braver
ones — even if you're still a high-school or college student — when
casually asked your age, might reply, "Two hundred next May" — or
"seven hundred last February." Then give the questioner a steady,
laser-beam, mysterious, Scorpio-like gaze. You'll be surprised at the
varietyof responses. It's fascinating. Try it. As for myself, I confess
that I lied to the reporter. 1 won't be four hundred for another one
hundred and thirty-two Earth years yet.
Still, even sans witch burning and psychiatric commitment, Ava-
tars today must continue to "die" and start all over with a new name
and identity somewhere else after a "reasonable period" in the same
body and its original identity, in a deception oddly similar to that
practiced by those in the Government Witness Relocation program.
You might find this information I've been given helpful some-
day. You can't judge a female Avatar or Guru (immortal) by her moth-
erhood. It's both natural and possible to conceive and bear a child
even when one is several hundred years old, by Earth time. The Ka-
rma of menstruation has nothing to do with pregnancy, even in this
imperfectly (at present) formed physical body. Someday medicine
will discover this truth — well, actually, they already have discovered

-- 595 of 676 --

532 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
it. They just don't believe it yet, and aren't quite ready yet to an-
nounce the discovery. Female children of nine, ten and eleven years
of chronologically measured age have, within the past decade, become
pregnant and delivered. infants, before ever having their first lunar
period. And this is not a rumor from sensationalist magazines. It's a
medically witnessed fact. Remember the law of polarity. If one may
conceive and bear a child before the menstrual periods begin, one may
do the same after they have ceased. Sarah did. Abraham didn't want
to believe it either, but he finally had to, when he saw it with his own
eyes. There are many such miracles waiting around the corner, like
shooting stars, to amaze you in the Aquarian Age.
And so . . . just because that woman down the street gave birth to
twins last month, don't be too certain that she's not an immortal. Not
even if she shows you her birth certificate.
A postscript to the foregoing paragraph: When astro-biology
birth control catches on, medical science will be forced to take a sec-
ond look at the "old wives' tale" of the connection between female
lunar periods and conception, since Dr. Jonas, of Czechoslovakia, has
already proven, through careful research with thousands of women,
that some women can conceive only during their menstrual periods.
As for giving birth after the menstrual cycle has ceased (after ancient
Karma has been balanced), it's far more common than most people
realize — women giving birth (over the past century," in fact) at ages
ranging from fifty to sixty. Records are available. When it happens
today the confused medical profession calls them "menopausal
babies." Here's a friendly, not ominous warning regarding all this.
A number of conscientious objectors in the sixties chose to adopt
the name, identity, birth certificate,, school records and so forth, of an
actual person, a mortal who had submitted to death, using the dead
person's identity. Secret agents in the CIA and the KGB are known to
do likewise, from time to time. The same procedure is occasionally
chosen by some Avatars and Gurus who need, for reasons already

-- 596 of 676 --

PHYSICAL IMMORTALITY * 533
explained, a new identity. So . . . how well do you really know that
wise friend who's been enlightening you regarding various New Age
ideas and ideals ? Remember the biblical warning that one may
"entertain angels unawares."
You'll recall what was written in the chapter "Gurus, Ghosts, and
Avatars," concerning the Adept known as St. Germain (or the Comte
de St. Germain) who was, according to metaphysicians of high cred-
ibility, also Shakespeare, Francis Bacon and Isaac Newton. You may
have wondered how that could be, since all three men lived during the
same "life span" period of history. Remember what I said a few pages
back on the subject of cloning? I said that scientific and involuntary
cloning by mortals is an extremely negative research, but that the
Spirit of an enlightened Avatar may — just as was done "in the begin-
ning" — clone himself or herself for various cosmic causes of spiritual
intent. Consequently, an Adept who has become a completely illumi-
nated immortal may "overshadow" more than one flesh body (or phys-
ical identity) simultaneously, with the Adept's Spirit watching over
and controlling several material bodies at the same time. This can be
accomplished by the takeover of a body born in the usual Earth man-
ner — or by actually creating from the ethers a physical body. A
Spirit, mind and soul may not be. created in this manner, but a flesh
body, complete with brain and all the necessary physical parts may be
so created, under the guidance of an Overself — the "puppeteer," who
in this manner manipulates the strings of several "puppets" at once.
See once again the drawing on Page 116.
Let's return to the problem of programmed chronological age
images confronting both immortals and would-be immortals. Note
that the words mature and maturing are not synonyms for age and
aging. The former is necessary and desirable for a human body, the
latter is neither necessary nor desirable.
What causes the process we call aging ? You've been falsely pro-
grammed to believe that it's caused by a chronological count of how
many "years old" you are — your "birthday count." Not true.

-- 597 of 676 --

534 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
This GIGO (garbage in — garbage out) programming of the com-
puter brain insinuates that the man-made and inaccurate calendar —
and the illusion of Time — are the stem "gods" that cause the human
body to age. Again, we're referring to the negative phenomenon of
aging, not maturing. It takes eighteen to twenty-one years for a body
to mature.
Using this time-calendar yardstick is the same as saying a person
ages because of how many sunrises and sunsets that person has ob-
served or "lived through." How can something so obviously untrue be
accepted ? Why ask the question ? I know the answer. Post-hyp-
notic suggestion and centuries of false programming. What happens
when you "live through" or watch two or three sunsets or sunrises . . .
or several thousand of them ? Nothing. Not a thing. They haven't
the slightest effect on your body. To be precise, it's not sunrise and
sunset anyway. It's earthrise and earthset. But science has so many
things upside down and backward, I suppose it's to be expected that
their terminology for the Earth's trips around the Sun would be the
same. You can toss holier-than-thou astronomers into the bucket too.
Time is an illusion. It allows humans to measure it because .of
the stark comparison between light and dark. That's the only "begin-
ning and end" there is to measure. But when there was no darkness
on Earth — before the "fall," and before this planet's second Sun ex-
ploded, causing the Earth to spin around the remaining Sun like a
billiard ball hit sharply with a cue stick — there was no Time. Does it
really deserve a capital letter7 Yes, I suppose it does, since it makes
such an impression on everyone.
»A question to ask the wise elf of your S-elf: If the light outside
were to remain exactly as it is now —assuming you're reading this in
the daytime — and never changed in the least — how would you
measure or refer to Time ? You couldn't refer to "last night" or "yester-
day morning" or "last week" or "next month," because there would be
no calendars, no clocks. When would you begin to set the
clocks ?JUThere would be no when. Only the present. Only now. An

-- 598 of 676 --

PHYSICAL IMMORTALITY * 535
Eternal Now. Really think deeply about it. Neither plants nor people
would need to "begin or end" (die). They would simply just be.
How would you measure Time if you were locked in a room with
continual artificial light — or continual darkness ? With a
clock ?JU(In the latter case, with a visible-in-the-dark face ?) Well,
yes. But those clocks would have been set, — started — in a world of
dark and light, the only measurement of Time there is. The dark and
light periods of the presence and the absence of the Sun also created
the season of the illusionary calendar year.
And so, Time is the Great Deceiver. The Great Imposter. There-
fore, to accuse what is not even real of being the enemy that causes the
process of aging is foolishly illogical.
However, the aging process, regrettably, does exist. There's no
denying it. You see it everywhere — in the reincarnations of trees and
flowers, after they "age and die." You see it in your "older" relatives
and friends. And, after the illusionary chronological calendar "age" of
thirty or so illusionary "years" of 365 sunrises and sunsets each, you
may begin to believe you see it in your mirror. If you believe you see
it, you will. Swiftly. Your face and body will meekly acquiesce and
obey the image of your Creator Mind.
Yes, the aging process does exist, an end product of the deathist
programming. But the enemy that causes aging is not make-believe
birthdays. It's gravity. Italics may not be sufficient. Let's give it cap-
itals and bold face, so you won't forget the true identity of the enemy
that causes the aging process. GRAVITY. You'll see shortly why you
mustn't forget what I mentioned earlier: that there are two kinds of
gravity — the gravity of the physical, material world — and mental
gravity.
Physical gravity began when the Earth started that billiard ball
spin around the remaining Sun, after being sharply struck on one side,
while it was not spinning, by the exploding other Sun (creating ani-
mal, plant and human mutation — dinosaurs and the like). And so,

-- 599 of 676 --

536 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
Time and Gravity began simultaneously. (I'll be writing about more
of these "twelfth night secrets" later, at the allotted time).
While we're on the subject of the exploding Sun is a good "time"
to meditate on the purpose of the Moon. Our Moon is what remains
of our eons-ago second Sun. Francis of Assisi often referred to
Brother Sun and Sister Moon. His sexual definition was right, but
these Luminaries are more correctly defined as Father Sun and Mother
Moon. (The Moon rules the astrological sign of Cancer, which repre-
sents the eternal essence of maternity.) What a lovely "angel of a
thought," to conceive of the infinite compassion of our Mother Who
art in Heaven, when her "child," this Eden Heaven now called Earth,
suffered such indescribable horror. Mystics have channeled that She
charged the pock-marked, dusty, burned-out Sun with Her gentler
light (He is Love — She is Light), and divinely ordained its appearance
as the Moon, above the now-in-darkness Earth, to light the night sky
each time the remaining Sun disappears from sight ... as Her promise
for tomorrow.
How sad that the patriarchal theology has even entered the realm
of Father Sun and Mother Moon by seeding repeated references to "the
Man in the Moon," when it is not His face, but a faint echo of Her
tender, maternal and nurturing image on the surface of the Moon, as
gazed upon from Earth, which is seen mystically by the Third Eye —
and even with physical vision, when one meditates and tries.
This is all symbolism, of course, but with an eternal message for
the "fallen angels" of Heaven, here on Earth. Everyone to whom I've
pointed it out succeeds in seeing it clearly after trying several times,
most of them on the first try. If you'd like to try it yourself, when the
Moon is full — or near full — when it is round in shape, not crescent
— here is what to look for. The supremely feminine, cameolike face is
seen in profile, facing toward the left, in appearance the features very
much like those you've seen in a cameo ring or brooch, with the hair
piled high on the head, in what might be called, for the purpose, of
recognition, a sort of Gibson girl style. Once the image springs into

-- 600 of 676 --

PHYSICAL IMMORTALITY • 537
clarity for you, it's unmistakably the facing-toward-the-left profile of a
woman of "unearthly" beauty and sadness. Do write and tell me when
you've discovered it, won't you ? It's a moving experience, and once
you've seen it clearly, you will always see it clearly, each night when
you look up into the sky.
To some Cancerians I know, and to others also, when Her image
suddenly manifests into vision, the sight brings tears, from a fragment
of soul memory of the profound sadness any mother so very long
forgotten by the children she deeply loves . . . must feel in her heart.
0^Q^0 Moon
Back to gravity . . .
Remember when you were a small child in school, and the
teacher held up an orange or an apple, representing the Earth, and you
wondered, in your innocence, why the" people on the bottom of the
orange didn't fall off into space ? When you raised your hand, trou-
bled, to ask, the teacher replied with one word: "Gravity." Tons of it
keep your feet (both of them, unfortunately) planted firmly on the
ground.

-- 601 of 676 --

538 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
Gravity presses down on your mind, your face, your body and all
of its organs with a "heavy hand." After enough of such pressure your
mind submits even more meekly to the deathist theology. The skin
on your face begins to sag, your body organs press downward and
become tired. That's what physical gravity does. Mental gravity fin-
ishes off the process with images. Images all around you, from when
you were a tiny tot, multiplying themselves every illusionary year of
your life — Images of the elderly — the sick and the old. Within your
own family. Friends and neighbors born in an earlier illusionary
chronological year than you. The nursing homes on television and in
film. White-haired film stars who used to project such glamorous
youth and vitality on the screen, now with hanging jowls and a thou-
sand wrinkles. Images . . images . . . images of aging . . . ugliness . .
helplessness . . . eyesight going, going, gone impaired hearing
. . . calcified bones . . . images of the elderly walking with canes ... or
confined to wheel chairs . . . even drooling . . . senility . . . senility.
You know who Set is, don't you ? Set, a.k.a. Seth, a.k.a. Satan,
a.k.a. the demons of darkness, a.k.a. the dark forces. Well, the word
SENILITY contains the words SET LIES.
To see what mental gravity does, when blended with physical
gravity, look in the mirror. Frown. Think of something that makes
you angry or worried or annoyed. Frown again. See how your fea-
tures drop in a downward direction ? Now look in the mirror again
and smile. Pretend you've just seen someone you love who has re-
turned after a long time. Think about it vividly, then smile and call
out, "Well, HI there !" See how all your features form themselves in
upward curves ? Including the lines around your mouth, your eye-
brows, your whole face.
Fully aware of what physical gravity does to the face, body and all
the body's organs, some Yogis choose to spend an hour or more each
day standing on their heads — to reverse gravity. Physical gravity, that
is. It's really dreadfully hard work, makes you dizzy besides — and it
doesn't do all that much reversing. It barely makes a dent in the rest

-- 602 of 676 --

PHYSICAL IMMORTALITY * 539
of the ninety-nine percent of the "time" the Yogis are walking around
upright, submitting to those tons of physical gravity. That's not how
you "reverse gravity." There's a much easier and far more effective
way.
The more than 42 billion electric cells in your brain have a power
immeasurably stronger than gravity, when they are controlled and
guided by your Mind. You just proved it by looking in the mirror — if
you did as I suggested. Did you ? If not, please do it now. All right,
are you back ? Then think about this: Mental Gravity (let's give it
caps; it deserves them) — Mental Gravity, in both directions, is what
you were using to manifest those instant results in the mirror.
Could mere physical gravity do that — instantly ? Of course
not. No way could it do that. So, you see, physical gravity is a light-
weight, compared to the power of Mental Gravity. This isn't merely a
mystical, esoteric statement. It's the absolute, measurable truth. An-
other truth even a physics professor can't deny is that physical gravity
cannot reverse itself, never mind how many tons of pressure it con-
tains. This alone should expose it for the weakling it is. But Mental
Gravity can do so, as we shall see. (We're going to cap those two
words from now on.)
The way to reverse physical gravity, the silent, sneaky enemy that
causes aging, is to seriously and consciously guide and control those
more than 42 billion electric cells in your brain with the infinitely
greater power of your Mind. Mental Gravity. Up until now, it's been
working in a misguided partnership with physical gravity, thanks to
the age programming that began when you were a child. Break off
that relationship. When you do you will eventually, and most cer-
tainly, be able to use Mental Gravity to reverse physical gravity, with-
out head stands yet ! — for the very simple reason that the former is
literally stronger and more powerful than the latter when you allow it
to be, and don't hold it back. It can't be accomplished overnight. All
those GIGO weeds must be pulled out by the roots and your computer
brain re-programmed. It takes lots of practice, but doesn't every-

-- 603 of 676 --

540 * UNDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
thing ? It even takes lots of practice to become a liar, addicted to
drugs or alcohol, forgetful, suspicious and fearful. Everything takes
practice, from racial prejudice and male chauvinism to mistrust be-
tween nations. Right ? Right.
The pull of gravity, like everything else, without exception, is
polarized. It works up and down, vertically. You've heard that "what
goes up must come down," correct ? Do you know what that end-
lessly repeated saying means ? It's paying homage to the power of
physical gravity. But have you ever heard that "what comes down can
go up" ? No, you haven't. Because that saying applies to the well-
kept secret that Mental Gravity can control physical gravity.
What is the phenomenon of levitation but the reversal of gravity ?
And who levitates ? Saints do. Spiritually enlightened men and
women do. Francis of Assisi, among a number of other holy ones, was
seen frequently levitating several feet above the ground while saying
his prayers, by witnesses of impeccable credibility and integrity. A
couple of Yogis from India toured America in 1986 (and may still be
here as you read this) — demonstrating levitation before crowds of
hundreds. One of America's most popular magazines ran a feature
story on these two men, including photographs taken of them sitting
in the lotus position, arms crossed, several feet in the air. The article
stated that they could remain there for a half a minute to a minute, and
that they were practicing to be able to achieve an hour or more in the
air.
In direct polarity are those possessed by "Satan" (dark forces of
negativity), who also levitate, as in William Peter Blatty's book The
Exorcist, and the film of the same name, based on many such true
incidents of possessed people levitating, witnessed by both reputable
priests of the Roman Church and medical doctors. Yes, observed levi-
tating. Reversing gravity. Remember that all magic works both ways.
The great power of the Mind may be used as curse or blessing, just as
fire can be a faithful friend or a cruel master.
Currently it requires about one hundred years of illusionary

-- 604 of 676 --

PHYSICAL IMMORTALITY * 541
Earth Time for physical gravity to cause the features and body organs
to fall and objectify "old age." It would take even longer, if it were not
helped by the booster of Mental Gravity, which can work in both
directions. Mental Gravity is capable not only of hastening the down
direction of physical gravity, but also of reversing the downward di-
rection to upward, either instantly or gradually, whichever speed is
chosen by your Mind — another proof of its superiority over the phys-
ical gravity that "keeps people from falling off the bottom of the
orange," and simultaneously causes aging. We know for certain, from
scientific evidence, that Mental Gravity can cause physical levitation of
the body. Possessing the awesome power of gravity reversal, and not
using it, is like owning a car, and keeping it in the garage — or like
owning a magic wand, and keeping it in a trunk in the attic. Such a
waste.
The reason physical gravity has been able to get away with it for
so many hundreds of thousands of years is that, as already pointed
out, Mental Gravity has been its willing co-worker. Once more, break
off that relationship ! You don't need to stand on your head like the
Yogis. All you have to do is use your head for something besides
getting headaches and a garden for your hair to grow in — on ?
Whatever.
. At some time during the sixties and the seventies, medical science
discovered an odd and fascinating, yet very sad (they think) phenome-
non. A disease called Progeria — premature aging. In a bizarre her-
alding of the Aquarian Age, popping up here and there, like some
strange Uranian flowers from another galaxy, were young children,
from six to twelve years old, or thereabouts, who aged with breathtak-
ing speed, right before the eyes of their shocked doctors. Like watch-
ing a plant grow with speed photography, a process requiring weeks
or months, happening before your eyes in seconds. You've seen such
camera work on various Nature programs and specials on television.
These children, within a few swift years, age all the way from six
or twelve to eighty or a hundred years old. They suffer all the known

-- 605 of 676 --

542 iV LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
geriatric diseases of senility, everything from arthritis and rheumatism
to calcified bones, loss of hair, teeth, sight and hearing. They resem-
ble little old men and women, septuagenarians, octogenarians . . . and
older. Some appear to be past one hundred. Toothless, horribly
wrinkled, nearly deaf and blind. Pathetic youngsters.
Pathetic? Don't be so certain. One of the strangest things about
these Aquarian Age medical marvels is their dispositions. Doctors and
nurses who care for them are amazed and at a loss for words to de-
scribe the lack of any negative response to this premature aging the
children are suffering. Their dispositions remain cheerful, they are
completely uncomplaining, they're unusually bright and alert, and
they smile a lot. The medical people just can't figure it out. They
behave almost like . . . well, almost like . . . miniature saints.
That's understandable. Indeed. Because ... these children are
illuminated Spirits, who have chosen to manifest these particular flesh
bodies to demonstrate the Great Truth of the golden Age of Aquarius
to the medical profession — and to men and women everywhere.
They have a mission ... but thus far it is failing, and can use your
help.
They are here to teach a glorious lesson, the first magical step
toward the realization of the miracle of physical immortality. They are
objectifying in their flesh bodies the mighty Law of Polarity, the law
'Earth scientists and physicists know well and respectfully genuflect to,
but too often fail to, recognize.
These gentle children are here to bring an Easter message to
Christians, Buddhists, Jews and those of all other Earth religions.
They are saying silently and eloquently, through their poor, afflicted
flesh bodies: "Look at us ! Look at us, please ! Don't you see ? We
are living, visible proof, undeniable evidence of the polarity law of
physical gravity. Look ! See ? Think. Hear us with your inner ears.

-- 606 of 676 --

PHYSICAL IMMORTALITY * 543
See us with your Third Eyes, as well as with your physical hearing and
sight."
They are saying, with such love and sacrifice: "See me ? Ifl am
nine years old, by your illusionary chronological Earth age measure-
ment standards — yet I look and feel and project your image of ninety
years old — then, by your own polarity law of physics, it is equally
possible for one who is ninety years old by your false calendar to look
and feel and literally project your image of nine years old — or any
other illusionary double number. If nine can be ninety, then ninety
can be nine. If seven can be sixty, then sixty can be seventeen, in the
higher dimension mathematics. See us ? We are living, tangible
proof of this ! What other proof could you possibly need than this
evidence you see before you with your own eyes ? Perhaps if you
opened your Third Eyes "
But does medical science really look and listen ? No. They con-
centrate on trying to treat this new Aquarian Age "disease" of pre-
mature aging — on trying to analyze what flesh body functions went
wrong to cause it — ignoring the irrefutable truth it is proving undeni-
ably, without equivocation: that physical gravity is reversible, and
i contains polarity, as does everything in this world, hot and cold, dark
and light, up and down, backward and forward . . . and on . . . and on
. . . and on into infinity. All of you, look and listen.
I have a suggestion to make to clergymen and religious leaders
everywhere, "for the love of Jesus," "the love of Moses," "the love of
Buddha, Mohammed, Krishna and all the rest. Take all of those wide-
eyed, trusting millions in your auditoriums, television audiences,
churches and synagogues, and lead them to the new Lourdes. Tell
them to kneel before the Easter altar of these children of the New Age,
thanking them and gratefully blessing them for the shining message of
truth, simplicity, love, innocence and eternity, the message of Pax et

-- 607 of 676 --

544 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
Bonum they are trying to communicate to all Earthlings through their
patient and cheerful suffering. Nurses and physicians, realize that you
may be "entertaining Angels unawares."
Amen . . . Awomen
How many of you have noticed the paranoid, near-pathological
and fanatic fixation on illusionary chronological "age" of certain
magazines ?
I won't list them by name, but you know which ones they are.
The publishers, editors and staff writers of these magazines seem
absolutely incapable of presenting any story at all, about anyone at all,
without dropping "numbers" every paragraph or so. Their hypnotic
fixation on this is very much like a hypnotized person who has been
told to hold his arm in the air, that it is made of cement, and can't be
lowered. That arm stays there, exactly as though it were actually
made of cement, until "permission" is given by the hypnotist to lower
it.
For example: Actress Jane Marshall, 32, and her husband, stock-
broker Peter Thomas, 31, were seen yesterday at a White House
luncheon with the President, 77, and the First Lady, 69. They took
along their children, Toby, 17, Helen, 12 — and their adorable twins,
16 and 16 and 5 minutes. Or . . . Prime Minister Osgood, 72, met
today with Premier Zhivago, 75, and his wife, Elsa, 68. They enjoyed
a lavish banquet, along with other notable guests, such as film star
Robert Hemmingway, 47, industrialist Anthony Perles, 51 and Olym-
pic champion, Heidi Armstrong, 23, who came with Broadway pro-
ducer, Hymie Castor, 64.
Now, 1 ask you, is this urgent information you're seeking as read-
ers about all these people ? 1 certainly hope not. Otherwise, you're in
trouble. 1 mean, who cares, for God's sake ?
Are they, perhaps, attempting to help their readers image the
person they're writing about, believing that these numbers will best

-- 608 of 676 --

PHYSICAL IMMORTALITY * 545
help in imaging them ? Then wouldn't the images be more clarified
by writing: "Actress Jane Marshall, 5' 2", 118 lbs., and her husband,
stockbroker Peter Thomas, blue eyes, black hair, were seen yesterday
at a White House luncheon with President Ronald Reagan, of Irish
,
ethnic stock, with dark-brown-hair- reporters -have -repeatedly -failed
to-prove-is-dyed-by-stealing-samples-of-it-from-the-floor-of-the-
barber-shop-where-he-gets-his-hair-cut (now that is an interesting
and informative piece of news, which happens to be true) — and his
wife, Nancy, a blue-eyed Cancerian. Marshall and Thomas took along
their children, Capricorn Toby, a law student, Helen, in nurse's train-
ing — and their adorable Gemini twins, 5' 3" and 5' 3", one with
brown eyes and one with green eyes.
When two public figures fall in love, especially actors and ac-
tresses who have ignored the numbers lottery, these magazines have a
real field day. Susan Astor, 32, plans a New Year's Day wedding to
Oscar winner Charles Murphy, seven years her senior, and . . . WAIT !
HOLD THE PRESSES ! The magazine editors forgot that, according to
the months they were born,. on New Year's Day Murphy will, for three
months into the new year, actually be EIGHT years her senior, not
seven. Wow ! Good thing we caught that goof in time ! Our readers
would never have forgiven us. Or . . . Academy Award nominee Jerry
Cranshaw, 21, has announced in a press conference that he's been
living in Paris with his leading lady in Here Come the Clowns, Pamela
Richards, who, at 23 is two years older than Cranshaw. Laurie
Adams, 19, has confessed that she and Andrew Nottingham, 44, were
secretly married in London last year . . .
The writers of these magazines are compelled and driven to re-
mark upon the numbers imbalance between lovers and mates,
whether the disparity in numbers between them amounts to thirty
years, twenty years, ten years, five years — or only one or two years,
which is about as silly as you can get. Even thirty years' difference is
meaningless when you realize the illusion of the calendar abacus. But
one or two years ? Good grief. Charlie Brown, do you realize that
Lucy (I believe) came along a year or so before your appearance in the

-- 609 of 676 --

546 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
comics. Holy Moses ! That means she's a year or two older than
you. And how old are you, Charlie ? Certainly old enough to stop
talking to your Aquarian dog, Snoopy, as if he were a real person. For
shame, Charlie. Act your age. Does someone, perchance, know
where an illustrated book might be obtained, detailing, with posed
models, exactly how one should "act" in order to "act" one's age at 17,
33, 20, 23, 56, 42, 87, 35, 64, 19 . . . etc. . . etc. ?
Language is a reliable reflection of brain programming. Think
about this. Don't just flip it through your mind, but think about it.
When a child displays or demonstrates a thought process or beTiavior
usually attributed to maturity, everyone pats him on the head ap-
provingly. It's considered very good form for a child to behave like an
adult. Good little boy. Good little girl. Mama and Papa are proud of
you.
But when an adult behaves like a child, everyone frowns, and
says "Act your age." Meditate on the verb used. "Act." Think about it
a little longer. The common usage of the verb "act" in this manner is
most revealing. "Act your age," says quite clearly that the person so-
ciety observes behaving in a carefree, childlike manner should become
an actor or actress, and ACT (a make-believe profession, right?) . .
and act out whatever particular image the Director (Society) has of any j
double number. But you are the Producer of this drama of your life,
and you can fire the lower case director whenever you choose, without
severance pay. You're Cecil B. DeMille. Sack the cowardly custard !
Can't a person simply be his (or her) age — just be whatever it
really means ? Yes. Must a person actually act in order to project
what society dictates as the image ? No. You know what ? It proves
that the subconscious minds of those who say "act your age" are basi-
cally and wisely "with it." The subconscious mind knows that what is
being requested in such a command needs to be pretended or acted
out to be successful. What if one has no acting talent ? Then how
would such a one "act" his or her age ? They don't give out Academy
Awards for it, do they ? Even if they did, is an "Oscar" really worth

-- 610 of 676 --

PHYSICAL IMMORTALITY • 547
it ? And so, if there ever is such a book, with illustrations explaining
how to "act one's age," it would have to be published in Hollywood.
Now, look, let's get serious. What does all this pathological
chronological behavior mean ? It means that these magazine people
believe that everyone holds a sharp, clear and precise image of each
double number in the numerical system. Dare I say it's a myth ? Yes,
I shall dare, because, to give but one of hundreds of examples, one day
last month I was having lunch with two unenlightened, follow-the-
leader-type business people. One of them asked me the age of my
attorney. "How old is he ?" I replied that I thought he was thirty-
four, in violation of my usual refusal to discuss illusionary numbers,
since the question took me by surprise.
"Thirty-four ?? !!" one of them exclaimed, apparently nearly in a
state of shock. "I could have sworn he was at least thirty-seven, if not
thirty-eight." This was just too much for me. I asked the waiter for a
sheet of paper and a pen, which I then offered to my two luncheon
companions, asking them, "Would you mind drawing three faces for
me, please — one of them age thirty-four — one age thirty-seven —
and one age thirty-eight ? I'm genuinely curious and interested in
learning your system." For a few moments they doodled with the pen
on the paper, by turns, then stared at me, as one of them asked, "What
system ?"
"Your system of differentiating between thirty-four, thirty-seven
and thirty-eight," I replied. "I mean, seriously, is there an extra wrin-
kle or wart or something, somewhere, that people can spot if they look
hard ? It would be a big help to, say, for instance, private inves-
tigators, when they don't have fingerprints or anything like that, but
they do have the birth data, to help them decide if the guy in the red
Volvo is the criminal they're looking for, or just an innocent citizen."
They weren't sure if I was being serious or funny, but I was being
very serious. I really would like to know. People don't have rings to
count, like trees, do they ? If so, I must have been asleep in high-

-- 611 of 676 --

548 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
school biology class. I've asked literally more than a hundred people
this sort of question, and not a single one of them has been able to
answer — or to draw their number images.
Obviously, anyone can come close to winning the chronological
Wheel of Fortune when they're choosing between a twelve-year-old
and an eighty-year-old — or even between a twenty-year-old and a
seventy-year-old (assuming they aren't dealing with an enlightened
mortal, on the way to becoming immortal, who has mastered the first
courses in cell regeneration). But . . . today's "sheep" believe they can
tell the difference between twenty-three and twenty-six — forty and
forty-three — sixty and sixty-seven. They actually believe that. It
boggles the mind. What is amusing is that each one of the guessers
has a totally individual and differing image of each of those numbers
— yet are helpless to either draw or describe them. I guess that's
because their images were programmed into their computer brains
without a Code Key.
This chapter is about destroying the deathist illusion with the
enlightenment of physical immortality, through cell regeneration.
What exactly is cell regeneration ? Just that. The regeneration of
the cells of the rechargable battery of your physical body, which has
been called "the temple of the soul," but which is also the material,
flesh temple of other equally invisible and vital parts of the you-of-
you. It will be easier to picture in your mind if you realize that the
process is related to the spiral mystery.
The spiral is the basic principle of Nature's laws, and can be
observed anywhere you look. The spiral of the conch shell. Spiral
tendrils of ivy and other plants wind around porch railings and
fences. Flowers form themselves in a spiral, leaves are coiled in spiral
form before they miraculously unfold. Plants, grass and flowers shoot
in spiral growth to literally screw their way through the hard surface of
the ground, when spring calls to them. There is spiral movement in
the Yin-Yang forces of the Hexagrams of the I-Ching.

-- 612 of 676 --

PHYSICAL IMMORTALITY * 549
Linus Pauling, Nobel Prize-winning discoverer of the magic of
Vitamin C, also discovered what scientists have labeled polarized mol-
ecules. Pauling observed that the strings forming the structure of the
molecule have a spiral motif, with the joining units linked to form a
helix in the shape of a loosely coiled spring, much like a spiral stair-
case with each step made from a different grained wood. These mo-
lecular units of matter are unsymmetrical, like a pair of gloves or
sandals possessing two forms which are mirror images of each other.
All spirals of living matter twine around in the same direction —
although everything would work equally well the other way around. This
is important to cell regeneration, as we shall soon see.
u
We are all built of right-handed corkscrews," stated another No-
bel Prize-winner, Sir Laurence Bragg.
The spiral mysteriously seems to possess some subtle quality of
its own. Wind a piece of copper wire into a spiral and it magically
acquires properties it did not previously possess. The spiral used me-
chanically makes it possible to penetrate wood and iron. In the sci-
ence of electronics, John Nelson, of RCA Laboratories, told me when 1
worked for NBC that the spiral is used to convert radio waves into
electrical impulses.
Your doctor can tell you that the spiral is discerned in many
organs of the human body, and many of the body's functions operate
through spiral movement. It is of more than passing significance that
all of Earth's "creatures," beginning with the tiny amoeba, all the way
to men aftd women, when they move without any means of stimula-
tion, will be invisibly urged to take a spiral path. The horns of a Ram,
all horns — are spiral. The umbilical cord is a spiral. Thumb prints
are spiral. So is your humerus, the pelvis and likewise your sweat
glands. The spiral appears in cell division — and even in astrology's
mathematics a logarithmic spiral occurs. Of course, astronomers and
mathematicians use logarithms too. But they may not be as sensitive
to the meaning as esoteric astrologers with a mystical leaning and a
respect for the illumination of intuition.

-- 613 of 676 --

550 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
Lakhovsky, in his book The Secrets of Life drew an analogy be-
tween the spiral formation found in all living cells — and the coil in an
electric current. Nikola Tesla, of course, with his alternating current
discovery, knew this, even as a child. Lakhovsky further suggested
that, just as in an electrical oscillating circuit, radiations are emitted
through the functioning of a spiral of wire, increasing its capacity —
"in the living cell, radiations are emitted in a like manner."
Now, let's travel back, in a spiral trip, to an important statement a
few paragraphs ago. All spirals of living matter twine around in the
same direction — although everything would work equally well the other
way around.
I clearly remember John Nelson, in the NBC cafeteria, telling me
that "because the spiral is used to convert radio waves into electricah
impulses, it is evident that the capacity exists to move from one level
to another — or from one vibration to another."
Here is a rather clumsy drawing to help you comprehend the
spiral mystery, and how it relates to cell regeneration.
Do you see the tiny star ? It marks the beginning of your flesh
life, therefore the beginning of the life of each cell in your body, as it
spirals in a right-handed direction toward the programmed brain's
expectation of aging and death, brought on in a material sense by
physical gravity, assisted by Mental Gravity.
Now, do you see the black dot ? It represents where your cells
are on their spiral trip at this moment, while you're reading these
words. Never mind if you are nineteen or ninety or more. (The
higher your illusionary chronological number, the more spirals, of
course.)

-- 614 of 676 --

PHYSICAL IMMORTALITY • 551
Look at the black dot; picture that you are looking at the black
dot of every cell in your body. Then intensely, vividly, use your Men-
tal Gravity to image the spiral turning in the opposite direction. Draw
it —* all the way back, not to the initial tiny star (after all, you don't
want to return to your crib or the hospital delivery room) — but to
whatever point along the way represents whatever present image you
may have of whatever illusionary chronological year, and will it to stop
right there — until and unless you give each cell a new command.
Don't just think about it. Do it.
You will have begun the process of cell regeneration.
Repeat these three statements aloud, until you have memorized
them.
"All spirals of living matter twine around in the same direc-
tion — although everything would work equally well the
other way around" LINUS PAULING
"We are all built of right-handed corkscrews"
SIR LAURENCE BRAGG
"Because the spiral is used to convert radio waves into electrical
impulses, it is evident that the capacity exists to move from one level
to another — or from one vibration to another." JOHN NELSON
Keep imaging, keep repeating these sentences aloud, and finally
your sleepy, drugged, falsely programmed brain will register it, and re-
program itself. It truly will.
Despite all those blind spots we've discussed in earlier chapters,
medical science still manages to make some marvelous discoveries
from time to time. One of them is the discovery that every cell in the
human body replaces itself over a period of seven years. Except for
the human brain cells, a most important exception for you to remem-
ber. (Alcohol burns out brain cells, and even though you have over
42 billion of them, becoming magic requires as many as you can keep
healthy.)

-- 615 of 676 --

552 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
Meanwhile, think about this seven-year cycle. There's not a cell
in your body (other than in the brain) — not a hair on your head or on
your body, not a fingernail or toenail you possess right now that was
there seven years ago. You are, therefore, in a cellular sense, a brand-
new person every seven years, commencing with your birth. If a body
organ has a defect, the defect will remain (until you cure or heal it
yourself), but the cells making up the organ will be new.
Moreover, many humans have been found in Russia and else-
where who possess the roots for a third and even a fourth set of teeth.
(You've already gone through two sets — your baby teeth and your
"second" teeth.) Unfortunately, these extra roots don't get to grow
into teeth because the death urge chokes the body's battery and kills it
before they get a chance to manifest. More waste. Obviously, your
body can produce the roots for as many sets of teeth as you need, in
perpetuity, which will certainly save a lot of dental bills when you
become immortal.
Why does your body do all this ? It's your life urge again, des-
perately trying to keep you alive, giving you new opportunities every
seven years to begin your immortality. The life urge is so strong, so
insistent in man and woman, you'd think it would win -an easy vic-
tory. It would, except for the ever increasing physical gravity and
mental gravity combining to defeat its repeated attempts to make you
immortal.
What is the difference between "old cells" which have run their
right-handed screwdriver spiral to an end — and new cells — regard-
ing the process of cell reversal we just discussed ? Not much. As you
gradually reverse the spiral of each cell in your body, stopping at
whatever point (chronological "age" image) you've chosen between the
black dot and the tiny star in the previous drawing, no new cell will be
needed to replace the cell thus freshly regenerated. The only reason for
the replacement is that your double gravity pull wears out the cells.
Eventually, you won't need more of them, because you'll be keeping
those you have in perfect condition.

-- 616 of 676 --

PHYSICAL IMMORTALITY * 553
Does this spiral your mind into a revelation ? It should, because
it means that all cells spiral because of the illusion of Time. Your cells
did not so spiral when your body was on Earth with two Suns, and
was not spinning (causing gravity). Neither did plants and flowers
spiral. They simply were. The reason they screw themselves through
the ground now in a spiral is a demonstration of their own life urge,
imitating your body's life urge. When you have recognized Time for
the imposter it is the cells of your body will no longer spiral and need
to be reversed — although their general shape will still be spiral, sym-
bolic of the "serpent circle of eternity."
Until the cell regeneration cycle is completed, while it's still in
progress, when you image a new cell image it stopping its right-
handed spiral at the same point in the drawing you've imaged your old
cells to stop, when they're spiraling in a reverse direction. You needn't
keep count of all your old and new cells with a Chinese abacus to do
this. Just give the dual order applying to both kinds of cells, and your
body will take care of the details. Ordain your powerful Mind to
program your computer brain with this command, then trust your
body's wisdom to comply.
Now . . . isn't it fortunate that your brain cells don't need to be
replaced every seven years, and don't die (unless you kill them) ? And
now do you see why you have so many, and why you haven't yet
begun to use ninety percent of them ? They're going to be needed
when cell regeneration becomes the rule, until immortality is
achieved. There is good cause for these extra "chips" in the computer
brain, waiting to be activated for the big task of eternal life.
Here are the first eleven steps along the path toward physical
immortality. When you've mastered them your cell regeneration will
have commenced," and you'll be able to walk the rest of the way yourself,
guided by your own Higher Elf.
1. Know the truth. Don't hope it's true. Don't have faith that it's
true. Don't believe that it's true. KNOW it. Your ability to

-- 617 of 676 --

554 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
achieve physical immortality is real. You already possess it. This
is the most difficult of all the steps along the way to master, yet
the most necessary. Without it, the others mean nothing, and
will accomplish nothing.
KNOW IT NOW
Then you will have WON
2. Image the spirals of your cells turning in the opposite direction,
and repeat aloud: / am immortal, and I now ordain my body to
demonstrate this, each morning and each night of your- eternal
life. Boost and assist your cell regeneration by taking 1,000
mgms of PABA (para-amino-benzoic acid), 5,000 mgms of Vita-
min C and 2,000 mgms of d 'alpha tocopherol- Vitamin E every
day, and use moisturizers all over your body, not just on your
face. Get lots of fresh air, especially while you sleep. Instead of
cars, buses and cabs, walk as much as you possibly can. Drink at
least two full 8-ounce glasses of unsweetened grape juice every
day of your immortal life. (Red grape juice tastes better, and the
plumpies need it also, but blue grape juice is an equally potent
cell stimulator.) Eating grapes is fine, but you still need the grape
juice. You'll see the difference in the skin on your face within one
week, or sooner. Four glasses a day are not too many, but at least
two. Step 2 contains all the cosmetology you need. Vitamins
B-12 and B-Complex are not priorities, but will help.
3. Don't be ashamed of your new enlightenment. Talk about it to
every person you meet. Friends, relatives and business associ-
ates. Ignore their ridicule. Out of every ten people who ridicule
you, there will be one or two who will believe you. Then, when
you're 500 or 600 years young, you'll have a few people you
know to pal around and hang out with you.
4. If you're a woman, when you become pregnant for the first time, J
or the next time, try to have your infant delivered under water to '
avoid the birth trauma that results in a continuing pattern of im- ]

-- 618 of 676 --

PHYSICAL IMMORTALITY * 555
proper breathing. There are more people around who can do this
than you may realize. Search for them. If you're a man, support
your wife in this maternal wisdom.
5. Stop drinking. A little wine, very occasionally, nothing else. No
drugs, quite naturally. And, alas ! Stop smoking as soon as you
feel you can without serious emotional trauma. Substitute some-
thing for smoking. Like . . . sexual union with the person you
really love . . . smelling flowers . . . Ferris wheel rides . . . listening
to symphonies . . . making a few baby miracles for someone who
needs some magic . . . swimming . . . singing . . . taking a shower
. . . running with your dog or dogs . . .
6. No sexual promiscuity. It short-circuits your soul. No unnatural
sexual union — and don't pretend you don't know why. Any
behavior in opposition to Nature's laws is the enemy of the
natural process of physical immortality. No pornography. It sets
up images that block the discovery of your own Twin Self,
through the law of magnetic attraction. And you cannot become
a full immortal until you have achieved union with the missing
half of your Spirit, of the you-of-you. Just the decision to become
immortal in itself guarantees that you'll find each other, at some
point along the path. Isn't that what you've been secretly search-
ing for and aching for all of your life anyway ? Face that truth.
However many sexual partners you may have had — or are hav-
ing now — you're still empty, still lonely, and you always will be
until that miracle manifests. If you've practiced negative sexual
behavior in the past, forgive yourself completely, then forget it.
The true "confessional" is within.
. Likewise, forgive your enemies. "Do good to all those who harm
you and say all manner of evil against you." Being kind to those
who are kind to you doesn't cause your cells to spiral in a reverse
direction. Being kind to those who hurt you through word or
action does. Give away half your money to friends and strangers
equally. Read the "Deja Vu" chapter and the "Labors of Love and

-- 619 of 676 --

556 tV LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
the Money Mystique" chapter, until you've memorized what they
say — then do what they say. The counsel given within them is
not from me, but from those who are many cosmic light years
beyond me in illumination. Stop clinging to material posses-
sions. Let go. Be generous with, give freely of your time and
money.
8. Firmly and permanently reject all fear about every aspect of your
life: fear of flying, fear of accident, fear of poverty, fear of lone-
liness — all jear. Including fear for friends and loved ones who
are ill. Stop expecting them to die.
9. Become a vegetarian in the way outlined in the "Apple a Day"
chapter. Do not kill any living creature for any reason. Hunters
and fishermen cannot achieve eternal life, are not candidates for
physical immortality. I'm truly sorry about that, because some of
the dearest and most enlightened people I know are fishermen or
fisherwomen, with only this one blind spot keeping them back.
To repeat, do not kill for any reason. Learn karate and other
Oriental self-defense arts if you must, but do not kill. You must
not remove any person's or creature's Free Will choice to live or
to die.
Not killing is so basic, it shouldn't even need to be men-
tioned. If you have formerly killed u
in the line of duty," with the
mistaken notion of "patriotism," forgive yourself and cleanse
yourself. There's never a real reason for killing anything or any-
body. There is always a way to solve a "dangerous," existential
situation where your murder or another person's murder is
threatened, without killing the aggressor. There is always a way
to prevent the death of one person without killing another.
Wounding an arm, hand, foot or leg is not desirable, but is better
than killing.
10. Fast one day a week, every week in the year, drinking only fruit
juice, and when you can handle it, only fresh spring water — no

-- 620 of 676 --

PHYSICAL IMMORTALITY * 557
fruit juice. Work up to fasting in this manner one week out of
every month. It purifies both your mind and your body. Jesus
fasted, and look at all the miracles he manifested. So did Fran-
cis of Assisi, and he was able to converse with birds and wolves
and other creatures in their own language.
11. The number 11 is a Master Number in numerology, as youVe
already learned in Chapter 5. Therefore, it's appropriate that
the eleventh step in becoming an immortal (synonymous with
becoming a Master) is numbered in this way, not by my own
design, but by the harmonics and synchronicity of the Uni-
verse. It doesn't matter whether you are fourteen or forty when
you read this step — or eighty or ninety illusionary chronolog-
ical years. Memorize it, even if you're a teenager, memorize it —
because it's of urgent importance to anyone seriously intending
to achieve cell regeneration and either the prevention of aging or
the reversal of it — and to conquer death.
By now, do you realize that the most basic step in achieving
immortality is to know that, in reality, there is no time ? Do you
understand that it's your false belief in the power of time that blocks
your cell regeneration ? Do you know now that time is your enemy
— that if you allow it even the smallest acceptance in your mind, you
cannot become immortal and your cells will not regenerate ? Good.
Now consider the word RETIREMENT It lexigrams into RE-TIME.
Webster thus defines the word RE: "to appear over again ... to re-
new." And that's just what happens when you retire, either because
your employer has silly rules about a forced retirement age, or because
you believe yourself that it's necessary and desirable at a certain illu-
sionary chronological age. In other words, when you accept
RETIREMENT, Time "reappears over again anew" — it returns to mas-
ter you again. Retirement is the most powerful of all the influences
causing unnecessary aging, and even death.
Retirement is a huge mistake. Take a year or two to goof off
when you want to relax or travel, but no more than a year or two at a

-- 621 of 676 --

558 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
time. Permanent retirement is an unsuspected, deadly killer. It will
kill you as surely as a shot from a rifle — it just takes a little bit longer
to die. It destroys completely your life urges.
Retirement is comprised of two pure ingredients: pure laziness
and pure fear. It's a false dream of lazy days, with nothing to do but
sleep and play — a false fear that you're "too old" to be of any value —
that you only have u
a few years left" and you have to desperately do
nothing to enjoy them, to make the most of them.
Retirement doesn't make "the most" of anything. It makes "the
worst" of everything.
What keeps the juices of your life urges flowing, what keeps your
mind recharging your body, is your career, profession, job or work.
Being needed by whomever for whatever. Giving out to the world what
only you have to offer it. Andthe world still needs you — more than
ever now.
If you haven't yet retired — don't. Take a couple of years leave of
absence, get all that playtime and travel time out of you, then return to
your work, which you're becoming more superbly capable of execut-
ing every year of your immortal life. If you're in a profession where
you are your own boss, working for yourself, the decision is yours. Be
grateful for that. If you work for an employer who insists that you
retire, do it if you must. Then get another job. You say that's nearly
impossible "at your age" ? It won't be as easy as when you were a
chronologically illusionary twenty-one, but if you try, you'll be
surprised.
If you genuinely, sincerely and seriously try, and can't find ortho-
dox employment, then create a new career or profession for yourself.
There are so many thousands of ideas and concepts along this line, I
have no intention of listing any of them here. Use your own imagina- j
tion. That's what it's for.
Be a consultant to someone. Your wisdom is needed. In a few .

-- 622 of 676 --

PHYSICAL IMMORTALITY * 559
years you'll be able to plunge into the job market again, because im-
mortality will have begun to be dimly realized by many more people
than before this book was published. You'll see. Besides, if you forget
that fear-based "Big Brother" Social Security number, and righteously
"lie" (tell the real truth) about your age, the way you're going to look
soon, no one will know the difference.
You don't need a birth certificate to get a good job, and certainly
not to begin a new career. Avoid retirement playgrounds like poison,
because that's exactly what they are.
I've tried for years to convince a retired person very close to me,
whom I love dearly, that his retirement to one of these places was a
subconscious death wish that would bring about just that — his
death.
He wouldn't listen. I offered him a number of responsibilities I
knew he could handle better than anyone else I'd ever met, better than
people half his illusionary chronological age. He kept responding
with, "I'm too old. I can't handle it. Why, do you realize how old I
am T
Men and women of a certain "age" love asking that question.
They revel in it. They brag about it, as if it were a badge of honor. It's
not. It's a badge of disgrace, of surrender to the programmed deathist
lies. Yet it contains a trace of wistfulness, implying "isn't it wonderful
that I've made it to this number, and I'm still here ?" It would be
more wonderful if you made it to that number and thousands of years
beyond it.
The person I referred to just now will read this book, and I pray
that he gets the message. It's a last resort. Both he and a woman I also
love dearly look and behave and think about thirty years "younger"
than the age they keep bragging about. I HAVE ORDAINED that they
wake up, look in the mirror — and get moving. Likewise with another
woman I dearly love, who only needs part of this message, because
she's always secretly believed what this chapter is saying, but was

-- 623 of 676 --

560 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
afraid everyone would think she was crackers if she dared to express
it. She's a Pisces. My message to her is: Come on, express it. It's
time. No one will laugh at you. The mission of this book is to pre-
pare people for the miracle you've known about inside yourself all
along — and it will accomplish its mission. Nothing can prevent its
seeds from sprouting because it's been ordained by our Creators. You
don't need to be afraid anymore. Go for it ! I have a job for you to
do, beginning in a few months, so get ready to start to work. Also,
you'll be moving to another state within the year— like those other
two people. That's a white witch prediction for the future, and three
promises for tomorrow.
These are the 1 1 steps for achieving gradual physical immortality
through cell regeneration. Step 4 is not an absolute necessity, but it
will help the "flesh of your flesh, bone of your bone" to begin becom-
ing an immortal at birth.
If you can change, for instance, your programmed belief in pov-
erty, you can also change your belief in aging and death.
If you can control the physical effect of gravity in only one small area
of your life, you can do it in all other areas. I know a man who has
requested that 1 not make his name public. His bones, in particular,
those in his back, had calcified, and he was told by doctors that he
would never walk again. He firmly committed himself to immortality,
and began to practice all the steps of cell regeneration. It took five and
a half years, but his bones gradually began to soften, to de-calcify. It
may be ten years or so longer until they have returned to the perfect
condition they were in his youth, but what is ten years to an immor-
tal ? He is now walking without pain.
If you have a physical handicap, overcoming it to any degree at •
all will give you the evidence you need to conquer aging and death.
Developing an athletic ability often helps greatly. Learning to help
and heal others will help enormously.. Each negative attitude and *
habit you overcome, however small, will strengthen your belief in
your personal spiritual, mental and physical powers, and allow you to

-- 624 of 676 --

PHYSICAL IMMORTALITY * 561
establish effective communication with your own Spirit, who pos-
sesses all power for all purposes.
Bob Wieland, a Viet Nam vet, lost both of his legs when he
stepped on a land mine. As he says, "My legs went one way — and
my life went another." In 1982, Wheeler decided to "walk" from Cal-
ifornia to Washington, D.C., wheeling himself along highways and
roads with a "scooter," the stumps of his legs protected by thick ban-
dages. It took him three years, eight months and six days to complete
the 2,764-mile "walk." But he made it to his destination, the Viet
Nam War Memorial in Washington, bearing the name of his buddy, a
soldier who was killed beside him when a mortar went off. Bob
Wieland is clearly a candidate for physical immortality, even though
he -doesn't realize it yet. He's also a candidate for the miracle of grow-
ing both legs back, good as new.
Notice that Wieland's courageous "walk" across the country, in
taking 3 years, 8 months and 6 days, adds to 17 — and the 2,764
miles he covered add to 19, making the Compound Numbers of his
trip 17 and 19. Look up their meanings in the numerology chapter.
There are a multitude of ways you can tell that cell regeneration
has started in your body. The skin becomes clear, the breath becomes
sweet, the odors of elimination begin of diminish. Your tongue will
gradually become pink and soft, sans rough bumps. Your eyes will
sparkle and your voice will take on a subtle but detectable musical
tone. Your emotions will grow ever mote easy to control. You will
begin to recall your "dreams" (astral travels) clearly. You'll require less
sleep. If you have lines in your face, they will slowly but surely be-
come invisible.
According to Gurus, and I have no reason to doubt it, there's a
strange chemical reaction in the body when the cells begin to reverse
their spirals, perhaps five to seven calendar years after the process has
begun, occurring at uncertain intervals. It varies. An odor. It's been
compared to the unpleasant but not unbearable odor of an athlete's

-- 625 of 676 --

562 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
tennis shoes, after extreme exercise. Pungent, somewhat sour, and
quite strong. Distinctive. It's also been compared to the musty odor
detected when an air conditioner in, say, a large 747 type plane, is
turned on, after having been shut off for several hours. Perhaps it's
related to oxygen, since cells do contain oxygen, which may be
changed in some way, as the spiral reverses. It's unmistakable, and it's
said that there's a reliable way to identify it. If you sniff your skin or
any part of your body to locate the source, it becomes apparent that
the strange odor is not coming from there. No one else can even
detect it. Others will swear there is no odor, should you ask them, as
they gingerly smell your hair and skin. They'll think you're joking,
but you'll be serious. Finally it will dawn on you that the odor you
smell so strongly is coming from within your body, not from without,
and that you're aware of it through the olfactory or cranial nerves,
transmitting the odor to the forebrain and mucous membranes in the
upper pan of the nose. This is why no one else can detect the slightest
hint of it from being close to you. Only you can smell it. Perhaps
some biologist, chemist or physicist whose mind is open to cell re-
generation could define its origin. You shouldn't be overly concerned
with it, because it's a sure sign that your cells are reversing their spi-
rals. And "even this shall pass away."
******
I have a memory. A deep, deep memory, and recurrent. From
my childhood. I trust that people of the Hebrew and other religions
can relate to it, even though it's founded in the Christian celebration of
Easter. When I was small I used to look at "elderly people," now
called "senior citizens," and think about growing up to look and be-
have and feel like them myself someday. Did you ? t
That day seemed |
far away in a misty future time, but it still troubled me. Did it trouble I
you too ?
Then, when I became a little older, 1 made a private decision, a j

-- 626 of 676 --

PHYSICAL IMMORTALITY * 563
secret pact with myself. That could never, never happen to me. And
that was that. Period. Did you make a secret pact like that with
yourself too ?
. And . . . Easter Sunday. I was so . . . ambivalent about it. On the
one hand, it filled me with bursting balloons of happy. On the other
hand (I sound like an afflicted Libra) — it puzzled my twelve-year-old
mind. On the happiness side, there was the delicate scent of the lilies
around the altar . . . and the heavy, rich scent of all the other Easter
flowers everyone wore pinned to their dresses or suits. The spanking-
clean and brand-new white gloves, white anklets and shiny new, black
patent Mary Jane shoes, the rustling silk of a pink (one year, daffodil
yellow) dress, the creamy straw bonnet, trailing rosy velvet ribbons.
And the Easter bunny basket, stuffed with jelly beans and chocolate
goodies, colored eggs, and maybe a surprise, like a charm bracelet to
wear with my new clothes to church. The angel music of the choir . .
.
and the pounding, echoing chords of the organ . . . blended with the
dizzying, heavenly scent of spring outside, the warm breezes and bud-
ding green leaves on the trees . . . the tulips lining the walk to the
church door.
It all made me certain that I could actually fly, if I'd only make
the effort, and my heart swelled with a thrilling joy impossible to fully
describe, when the choir and everyone else, including me, sang those
magical lyrics, punctuated by Alleluias . . . Christ, the Lord, is risen
today . . . sons of men and angels say . . . born like him, like him we
rise ! Join the triumph of the skies ! . . . Where, death is now thy
sting ? . . . Alleluia ! Alleluia ! Alleluia k . . with the rolling waves of
the organ music blending with the flickering candles, the holy scents
and flower fragrances all around ... I felt an overwhelming, over-
powering joy tingling from head to toe !
But ... on the puzzlement side, I kept wondering . . . if Jesus was
the Son of God, then why wasn't there a Daughter of God ? And I
wondered why everyone was so happy about Easter, if it only meant

-- 627 of 676 --

564 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
that just one man could experience such sky-rocket magic, and none
of the rest of us would ever have a chance to know such a miracle.
Especially me.
But my puzzlement faded away as soon as I returned home from
church and buried my nose in the hyacinths my mother filled the
house with every Easter. There is no way to express this. You'll just
have to press your own nose deeply into a hyacinth's blossoms . . . and
inhale. Or have you already noticed yourself that something about
this particular spring flower's fragrance makes your heart soar up to
join your Spirit ? It makes you know that Easter is truth for everyone,
as your entire being is flooded with the mystery of this knowing. Not
even logical, metaphysical, intellectual and personally tangible evi-
dence of cell regeneration brings such certainty.
The "sense of smell" is surely the strongest of the other five. It
leads you so swiftly into at least momentarily possessing the sixth
sense. Rain on the grass . . . lilacs drenched with dew ... the scent of
spring in the air . . . the cold, clean smell of falling snow . . . damp
earth ... can float your astral into a higher dimension for fleeting
moments. So, when your new commitment to physical immortality
wavers briefly, go out and smell a hyacinth ... or walk in the rain.
Re-spiral yourself
There are three kinds of immortals. Those who became so hun-
dreds or thousands of years ago, and communicate it to a chosen few
apostles in a subtle manner. Those who became so equally long ago,
but who choose to pretend they are still pilgrims, so that they may
empathize with others newly initiated to truth. And those who have
just learned the secret, and are delighted with the evidence they can
share with others. It's not always easy to make the distinction.
Nadine Star, an "elderly" resident of Louisville, Kentucky, wrote
these words: "If I had my life to live over, I would like to make more
mistakes." (She means behavior society labels as mistakes.) "Next
time, I'd relax. I'd start barefoot earlier in the spring, and stay that

-- 628 of 676 --

PHYSICAL IMMORTALITY * 565
way later in the fall. I would ride more merry-go-rounds. I would
pick more daisies."
Nadine is clearly a candidate for cell regeneration, and doesn't
quite realize it yet. Perhaps she will soon. Then she won't need to
"live her life over." She can just go right on living it, improving it in
all those ways she wrote about, and amazing everyone by growing
magically younger . . . and younger . . . and younger . . . until people
say, "Who is that lovely young girl out there running through the
daisy fields ? It looks like Nadine Star, but it can't be. Maybe it's her
granddaughter. She sure takes after Nadine, doesn't she ?"
Those who teach immortality do not deny or reject reincarnation
as a choice each person has a divine right to make. One of them said
to me, "I can't understand why anyone would not prefer staying alive
and helping to change the world to the traditional and popular prac-
tice of using up bodies and disposing of them as trash. They are going
to survive flesh death anyway, and continue to reincarnate until they
become illuminated and initiated, so why not just stay around in the
same body, maintaining the same appearance — or improving it ?" I
had to agree with his logic.
Physical death will always be available, but it is and always has
been a matter of personal choice. Your body is an energy system,
capable of infinite improvement and perfection. It may be difficult to
conceive of your own self as the source of all healing, but to believe
anything else is to accuse the Creators of your Spirit of doing a poor
job. Just as your Spirit created your first incarnated physical body in
His or Her own image, so did your Creators manifest your Spirit's in
Their own image. This chapter is not an attempt to deprive you of the
right to die, only an attempt to cause you to wonder about the sense of
it — by using your sixth sense.
Look at it this way. Your flesh body does not have the power to
destroy itself. It is only Mental Gravity, used in its reverse direction,
that has the power — and you control your Mental Gravity with your

-- 629 of 676 --

566 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
Mind. Your Mind survives the death of your body, whether you want
to believe it or not. Not believing in Universal Law hasn't yet stopped
it from working. When you think about it you have to be innately.
immortal in order to kill yourself.
•
When you decide to allow your body to outlive your pro-
grammed death urge you'll see many a miracle. The deathist theology
can last only as long as you cling to it. The moment you let go of it —
all the way — you'll be startled to see yourself manifesting love, wis-
dom, giving, forgiveness, confidence, joy, peace and physical health.
You'll be able to actually feel these qualities expanding within you,
with little or no effort.
Julian Davis, the former Cripple Creek gold-miner to whom I
dedicated my verse about the town in the beginning of this book, was
in his seventies when we met. All of his life until then he was a
hunter, and drank everyone in the local bars under the table, night
after night. He was a brilliant student of miracles; all he needed was
to be told, and after we'd talked for a time, he vowed he would never
again hunt deer or take a drink of whisky. He never did. Unexpect-
edly, then, he discovered he was a poet, and wrote a delightful book of
poems, which was published and sold all through Colorado. He was
designed to be an immortal, and would have made it if he had learned
about it just a few years earlier. When he returns in his next flesh
body he'll breeze right through it,- becoming an immortal before he
even reaches his teens. Cell regeneration and reversing gravity isn't
difficult, but it's always a mite easier to prevent it than to turn it
around later. You chronologically "young" readers had best remember
that. You chronologically "older" readers, don't be concerned. The
process of regenerating your cells and reversing their spirals carries its
own kind of excitement and magic. It doesn't matter when you con-
quer the myth of aging, before or after, as long as you conquer it.
I remember one morning when Julian stopped by my little, slip-
ping-off-the-time-track, haunted house on Carr Avenue, to have some
tea and a slice of blueberry pie. He'd just returned from the funeral of

-- 630 of 676 --

PHYSICAL IMMORTALITY * 567
an old friend and was depressed, a rare state of mind for him. Shak-
ing his head sadly, as he sipped his Red Zinger tea, his favorite brand,
Julian said, "He was only eighty-nine, can you believe that, girl ?
They sure are takin' em young these days." Right, Julian. They sure
are.
Another Cripple Creeker, my neighbor, schoolteacher Ruth
Cook, is a Pisces. (So, by the way, was Julian.) I taught Ruth how to
"image" a parking spot in the Springs at the Mall on crowded days, by
ordaining it of her Higher Self (you must always add the words,
"under grace, with no inconvenience to anyone"). She quite probably
could have managed it herself, without my instruction, since she was
born with esoteric magic in her very pores, as most Pisces Fish are.
One winter night, sitting by the Ben Franklin and talking over a
cup of coffee, I was slightly wavering in my own magic, and asked
Ruth if she believed in the certainty of someone's eventual return to
Colorado, a return representing a personal miracle to me. I will al-
ways remember her answer. "Well, I should certainly hope so," she
said. "With the power of all that faith you've been demonstrating for
so many years, if it didn't happen, I'd never be able to get my 'park' at
the Mall on a weekend."
What Ruth was expressing was an eternal truth, humorously, but
very wisely. Should you believe in physical immortality ? All such
wonders are irrevocably linked, and cannot be separated. If physical
immortality isn't real, Ruth could never get her "park" at the Mall, for
goodness' sake ! (And it never fails to manifest for her, smack on the
spot, every time.)
One bitter cold winter morning in the mountains, when everyone
was weary of snow and ice, snow and ice, snow and ice, including me
— I entered the Cripple Creek Market, stomping the snow from my
boots, blowing on my frozen fingers . . . and saw a familiar lep-
rechaun. Pokey, they called him. He worked in the small grocery
store, commuting each day from the magical "twilight zone" of neigh-

-- 631 of 676 --

568 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
boring Victor. Walking up to him as he was sweeping the floor, I said
in an exasperated tone, "Pokey, it seems like it's been winter forever.
It's already the end of April. Will spring ever come ?"
Pokey went right on sweeping, glanced up at me, flashed his elf
grin, and spoke just two words. "Always does." '
They reached deep inside me, those two simple words. Yes, I
thought. Spring always comes. With all the broken promises in the
world, it's good to know that spring is an eternally unbroken prom-
ise. Like the Moon's nightly promise of sunrise . . . rainbows after a
storm . . . and the Easter hyacinths of physical immortality.
******
Children and grown-ups. Polarities. Adults have lost their
awareness of their divinity, and are afraid to admit the truth, which is
that children are more divine and wiser than they are. All children
could become immortals in a twinkling, if it weren't for the adults
around them with their deathist mentality, who can't unravel the par-
ental disapproval syndrome, causing the children's Third Eyes to so-
lidify into stone. Now the children of the world are being physically
and sexually abused, their innocence murdered.
Facing the opposite polarity, the tragedy of nursing homes is that
the "senior citizens" are forced to die right in the middle of their
youthing process of cell regeneration, from the gloom and doom sur-
rounding them. Meditate on the term "second childhood" Really
think about what it means. A second chance to be a child. A second
chance to begin cell regeneration and eternal life. What society calls
"second childhood" is a natural form of primal therapy. It's the Mind
and body's final attempt to allow the life urge to conquer the pro-
grammed death urge — a trembling and miraculous process of re-
discovering the child within. If "senior citizens" in their "second
childhood" could be left alone, away from deathist environments and
people, encouraged instead of ridiculed and rejected, they would

-- 632 of 676 --

PHYSICAL IMMORTALITY * 569
swiftly begin to master their bodies, experience cell regeneration and
return to their youth. That's the next step. But they're stopped before
they can take the next step. The Spirit is calling them with this one
last chance to recognize the truth of eternal life. Society drowns out
the voice, and the elderly surrender.
Some continue to fight the death urges around them by moving
into retirement "playgrounds" instead of nursing homes. For a while
they hop about merrily, dancing, biking, jogging, swimming, taking
great strides toward regeneration and mastery of the body — reversal
of gravity. Then, gradually, as they watch ambulances and morticians'
wagons can away the dead and dying all around them, they give up.
They would rather die than continue to suppress the child within
them, demanding to be heard. Suppressing natural immortality is so
very un-natural, so painful — and takes so much effort.
It's time to start loving and respecting the "senior citizens," to
make it socially acceptable for them to heal themselves — and to
demonstrate their miraculous return to a second childhood, allowing
it to progress, as intended, to cell regeneration in the body. There are
three kind of humans presently on this Earth. Children, the wise
ones. Adults, the confused and blind ones. And the elderly, cruelly
stifled in their expression of gravity reversal and cell regeneration
called "second childhood" — blocked right in the middle of the
Spirit's rebuilding program to give them mastery of the body and a
return to youth by the death urges all around them. By their own
death, urges, too, just as they were about to be replaced by a new and
powerful life urge. What a tragic waste.
When society permits its "elderly senior citizens" to act like chil-
dren their cell regeneration process will begin, gravity will be reversed,
and they will gradually begin "youthing" themselves back to the ap-
pearance and physical health they originally enjoyed. Then the magic
of "the fountain of youth" will become ordinary. Ponce de Leon was
looking in the wrong place. The fountain of youth was gushing
within him all during his search. He was looking in Florida, wasn't

-- 633 of 676 --

570 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
he ? Odd, isn't it, that so many "senior citizens," secretly feeling these
strange new Life Urges are magnetized to Florida, perhaps subcon-
sciously following Ponce. Unless they recognize the truth of their own
immortality, their own ability to achieve mastery over the body, they'll
be as disappointed in their quest as he was. The fountain of youth is
not in Florida or Palm Springs. The fountain of youth is within.
Remember this. The easiest times to conquer death, to become an
immortal are in childhood — and in "old age."
Our Creators' love for the world will allow the Earth to survive,
even" though present world leaders seem determined to annihilate it.
The world doesn't need to be saved. The question is whether or not
humans are finally willing to open their Third Eyes, use their sixth
sense — and save themselves. After all, this is the Aquarian Age and, in
astrology, the sign of Aquarius rules and represents "second child-
hood." That's encouraging and, hopefully, prophetic.
I have two friends, a married couple living in Santa Barbara, Cal-
ifornia, who realize that they are immortals, and who have been ex-
perimenting with the often amusing false images of chronological age.
Most people believe this husband and wife are around twenty-one to
twenty-three years old, and invite them to frequent college affairs.
Then they meet the couple's twenty- five-year-old son, their thirty-
year-old daughter, and her new baby, and they go into a state of
shock. These two people won't discuss their chronological age with
anyone (not even me) because they don't want to submit themselves
to the myth that aging is necessary, knowing full well that un-
enlightened mortals have individual images of all the double nurftbers, •
and are capable of powerfully projecting those images when they hear
or see a "number," which can have a temporary but most damaging
effect on the person they "see" as whatever chronological age. It can
cause the cells to spiral back in a different. direction for a brief time,
and actually cause physical "aging" to manifest once more. Its not
worth it. Consequently my friends let everyone guess away, as much
as they like.

-- 634 of 676 --

PHYSICAL IMMORTALITY * 571
The wife — we'll call her Melanie — is always amused when she
takes her baby elf daughter (granddaughter, but that term has such
false images graven into it) — when she takes her elf child for a walk.
People never fail to stop to admire the infant, and ask my friend, a
Is
this your first baby ?" However, when she goes to a movie in town
with her daughter, and the latter happens to call her "Mom" while
they're buying tickets, my friend is inevitably asked, "Do you want a
senior citizen ticket ?"
One weekend when Melanie and her husband were in Los An-
geles they went to a theatre in Westwood and were asked, when they
bought their tickets, if they had their UCLA "student passes."
The power of a self-hypnotized human mind is an awesome thing
when it's investigated in this way. People really do actually see what
they believe they see.
Another friend, who lives in Boulder, Colorado — another im-
mortal — has been experimenting with the aging myth. When he was
thirty-two he decided to reverse the spirals of his cells, regenerate
them, and become twenty-four again — physically. His identification
was so intense and powerful, he told me, that he even got "keyed in,"
as he expressed it, to some of the emotional and financial hang-ups he
had when he was that "age." It took some practice and some effort to
toss them away. But he succeeded. He wrote to me last month to
share with me an amusing but troubling experience.
He went to a finance company for a loan to. buy a house. With-
. out thinking, he filled out the credit application with his real age of
twenty-four. The credit manager looked at him suspiciously, and
challenged his age. "You don't look twenty-four," he told my friend.
"You probably aren't even twenty-one yet, are you ?" Having no proof
of his age with him, my friend didn't know how to respond. Then the
credit manager noticed that the loan applicant had a college degree
and seven years' work experience. (It's hard to remember all the de-

-- 635 of 676 --

572 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
tails when you're youthing yourself.) At this point, the man behind
the desk became genuinely angry, told my friend that he was lying,
and flatly refused the loan. In his letter, my Colorado immortal friend
said, "I guess he thought I was a bad risk, being such a "liar." I
thought the whole situation was rather humorous, but it sure re-
minded me once again of three things: how incredibly people's minds
can be programmed regarding the myth of age — how swiftly cell
regeneration works, making it necessary to stop before it goes too far
(!) — and the problems being an immortal creates in a practical and
financial situation."
Physical immortality is a truth whose time has come in the
Aquarian Age. Those who seek it need not cpncern themselves with
the overpopulation problem it only seems to create, because, as I men-
tioned earlier, by the time they have achieved the beginning mastery
of their bodies, they'll understand what must be done next. It will be
revealed to them "when the student is ready." And they will smile
when they discover the very simplicity of the answer.
If you accept that this is the Golden Age when death will be
conquered — if you'd like to make a dent in the power of death in the
history of the world, there are several things you can do.
You can spread the truth courageously. The more swiftly errone-
ous mass thinking about death is changed, the sooner eternal life will
become commonplace. Every person who questions the inevitability
of death — whether seriously or even humorously ( a sense of humor
is pan of the sixth sense) — weakens its power. Spreading the truth
of physical immortality through thought transformation and the re-
sulting cell regeneration will save your own life and the lives of those
you love, while you'll also be helping to save the environment and to
prevent the "natural" disasters predicted for the Earth. It's the most
effective method you can use to stop war and violence. The mass
subconscious, falsely programmed death urge is the primordial cause
of earthquakes, flood, drought, nuclear mistrust — and even the shat-
tering of personal relationships, the destruction of human love.

-- 636 of 676 --

PHYSICAL IMMORTALITY * 573
If there are, for instance, enough immortal-minded men 'and
women practicing truth, simplicity and love — in time — California
will stay above the water. Each person who clings to the death urge,
who is dedicated to the necessity of death, is voting for disaster. The
purpose of prophecies of doom is to warn us, so that we may then
have a chance to use our wisdom to prevent disaster.
You can do other things also. You can begin your own physical
immortality simply by changing each negative and fearful belief into a
positive one — one thought at a time. Use the always successful or-
daining or affirmation technique (communication with your Overself
Spirit). Instead of fearing and believing you might die of a disease or
be killed in an accident at any moment, simply affirm and ordain
aloud: "I am completely in control of the fate of my physical body.
Nothing can harm me without my consent, and I do not choose to
give my consent. I choose to live."
When you begin to genuinely question death the death urge pro-
grammed into you starts to crumble. Realize how difficult it actually
is to destroy your body. When you pay attention to your suppressed
life urge it warns you again and again of imminent danger before a
fatal accident. There's a tremendous margin of safety in the Universe,
and you can tap into it through your sixth sense, which connects you
to your Spirit —your Higher Self.
Even so-called "fatal" illnesses take a long time to kill, giving you
plenty of warning to change and transform your thoughts — to lose you*
death urge. Over ninety percent of all suicide attempts are unsuc-
cessful. Your suppressed life. urge is trying to make you immortal
right now, if you would only listen to it. Pay attention to the messages
flashed into your Mind by your Overself — and the messages from
your own body, as every cell composing it struggles to live. Honor and
act on these messages. All pain is firmly anchored in fear and negative
thoughts, and if you throw them firmly out of your consciousness, you
can live forever. Try it. If you prefer your old death urges, you can
always change your mind.

-- 637 of 676 --

574 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
"There are many roads to Rome." That oft-repeated saying has
multiple meanings. Using oversimplification, it's the same as saying
that everyone begins the journey in New York, and everyone will reach
the final destination of Los Angeles, regardless of the mode of travel or
,the speed of travel chosen. Or the other way around, from Los An-
geles to New York, if you prefer. It's only allegorical. The point is that
different people achieve the same goal by using^a myriad of road maps
and esoteric pathways through the woods.
Everyone even slightly interested in pursuing the goal of immor-
tality — and, in particular, those of you who are sufficiently evolved to
be aware of the higher occult mysteries — will want to read The Lion
Path: U
A Manual of the Short Path to Regeneration in Our Times," I
written by the brilliant metaphysician, Musaios, containing ancient I
astrological and astronomical disciplines and regimens for achieving
immortality swiftly. A short path it may be, but a complicated one, j
despite the fact that its author presents the formulas with unwonted
crystal clarity, relative to such profound mysteries.
I warn you that The Lion Path is fathoms deep, although it will be j
easily comprehended by the already illuminated, especially those who ]
are educated in the studies of astronomy, astrology and mythology, i
To them, it will be a sheer delight, as they discover its never-before- ]
revealed Egyptian secrets of regeneration and immortality. This is a
book urgently needed in our Time. It's an incomparably valuable-
guide for Initiates desirous of mastering the ancient disciplines for the
purpose of quickly joining the ranks of the Masters now upon the
Earth in their mission to save the planet from a premature and unnec-
essary Gotterdammerung. Metaphysical beginners, however, may
have some difficulty in comprehending this fine work, prepared by
one of the world's true Masters and Meta-Magicians.
If you're among these, you needn't trouble yourself with such
strict disciplines as the book details. They're not necessary to become

-- 638 of 676 --

PHYSICAL IMMORTALITY * 575
immortal. You would be wise to add The Lion Path to your library now
for that day when "the student is ready," but you needn't immediately
involve yourself with its prismatic pathways until that time comes —
and when it does, you'll know it.
Meanwhile, you may successfully follow the slower, easier and
simpler path of the eleven steps outlined in this chapter. They will
give you the needed and necessary mastery over your body to begin
cell regeneration, and will make you an immortal as surely as the more
complex path. To repeat: There are many roads to Rome.
Not everyone is destined or designed to be a leader at History's
Twilight Hour. The "ordinary" happiness and love you'll experience
and project as you become an immortal in the ways described in this
chapter are of equal value to the rescue of Earth during these troubled
times, which will begin in 1988. The Higher Masters are aware of this
— even Musaios himself. Still, The Lion Path should be in your li-
brary, since one never knows when one might "entertain angels un-
awares." The book is published by the Golden Sceptre Publishing
Company, and you may learn how to order a copy in the "Pilgrim's
Progress" section on Page 601.
How do you begin preparing yourself for taking the steps toward
cell regeneration outlined here ?
Spend as much time with children as you can. They are the wise
ones. Talk with them, not down to them. You'll learn much more
than you guess, if you really listen to them. The truth of this is sum-
marized in the following brief excerpt from the Prologue to Gooberz.
(The text of Gooberz is in story form, unlike the Prologue, with plot
progression, dialogue and such. The Prologue is intended only to
seed the mind before the narrative begins.)
SSshhhh ! Listen to the children. They know.

-- 639 of 676 --

576 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
all children's hearts contain the Serpent wisdom
of coiled and spiral secrets
never dreamed of nor suspected
by those who do believe the wells of childish minds are shallow
and thus careless, then may overlook some ancient mystery
lying silent,
fallow
sleeping there unseen, invisible . . .beyond the ken of all those
unaware
that children meditate and dwell on things O ! never told
when their thoughts are brushed with fleeting gold
by passing angels, rustling silken wings, and murmuring low
above these softer forms of clay
too recently exiled from Heaven to pass judgement . . . and so
who harken with still open souls
as yet not sealed by the ponderous gravity of Earth experience
only later, after trials of torment and temptation
are the doors to Truth slammed shut, and firmly locked
by the flesh inheritance of fixed opinion, engraved while in the
womb
then do such shining Spirits become the self-imprisoned, final
minions
of the Body Temple's narrow, echoing tomb
crumbled from a promised alabaster-. .. into a common dust
******
I saved my favorite Lexigram for this final chapter. Of all the
mysteries contained in the lexigramming of English words, using the
Anglo-Saxon, druid-protected alphabet, this one is, to me, the most
profound. The only word that doesn't rhyme with any other. The
fruit my grade-school teacher used to demonstrate gravity. Orange.
ORANGE contains: NO ANGER — NO RAGE — NO AGE

-- 640 of 676 --

PHYSICAL IMMORTALITY * 577
One of my personal and dearest Gurus told me that immortals
have a secret greeting among themselves. When an Avatar recognizes
another Adept they exchange two simple gifts, bearing a silent, coded
message. They give one another, he said . . . a, hyacinth . . . and an
orange.
I'll share with you his parting words to me, before he "disappea-
red" the most recent time (although 1 know hell manifest again soon,
in his usual sneaky way). "Regarding physical immortality," he said,
'before miraculous revelation may be received, there must first be a
confident and unswerving knowing. Then comes initiation. There is
no way, in Heaven or on Earth, that this divine order may be re-
versed." He paused. Then he smiled, and as I closed my eyes, he.
placed his hand gently on my head, and repeated these words, first
uttered 2,000 years ago. "O thou of little faith, wherefore didst thou
doubt ?"
I believe it was he who spoke those words (in English or He-
brew ?). Or . . . is it possible that I experienced a trembling moment
of clairaudience ? I must remember to ask him when he returns.
The Los Angeles affiliate of the ABC television network is KABC
After every news broadcast the station flashes on the screen a 13-
word, inspired message. Please look up the meaning of 13 in the
numerology chapter. As I sit here typing the last page of this book,
perhaps through the pulsing synchronicity of the Universe, I can see,
to my left, the television screen, with the picture on, but the sound off,
a habit of mine while I'm working and feeling an author's loneliness.
The KABC message is twinkling at me, silently, a star sign code.
We bring you the world as it is
Imagine what it could be
******

-- 641 of 676 --



-- 642 of 676 --

AFTERWORD
remarks from the author
to her readers
on the subjects of astrobiology and Gooberz
for all of you who have written, including
those who have been so patiently waiting
for Gooberz
Because I chose to quote from my forthcoming book about rein-
carnation, Gooberz, within the pages of my last book, Love Signs, I have
received over the past seven years more than a thousand letters from
you, from all over the world, telling me you've been unable to locate
Gooberz through my publishers or the bookstores, and asking me how
you can obtain a copy. Your confusion is justified, since a footnote at
the bottom of each Love Signs page quoting from Gooberz informs you
that this book "will soon be published by Harper & Row."
According to a friend of mine who works for a firm handling
mass surveys for politicians and major market products, such letters
are estimated to represent less than one percent of the number of
people who feel the same way, but who don't take the time to write
about it.
Based on these statistics (and the postmarks), there must be well
over a million of you everywhere from America to India to Europe,

-- 643 of 676 --

580 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
who have been trying to find Gooberz. So I'm taking this way to thank
each of you who have written to inquire about it — as well as those of
you who have written to me about many other matters over the years,
among them inquiries about my missing daughter, Sally — and the
astro-biology birth control method I mentioned in the section of Love
Signs called "A Time to Embrace."
First Fd like to respond to your concern about Sally, then to your
questions about astro-biology — and finally — explain why you
haven't yet been able to locate Gooberz.
Concerning your many hundreds of sympathetic and much ap-
preciated inquiries about *Sally, a book about her disappearance is
currently being planned, to be called either Spider Line or Forget Me
Not, to be written by David Sikes, one of the government agents who
conducted the investigation, and a co-author. ; Sally is still missing,
and I've been told by concerned friends in the Justice Department and
other government agencies that the publication of a book about her
disappearance is what will lead to her recovery. I'm absolutely certain
that well find her.
To all of you who have written that you're praying for her return,
I send my heartfelt thanks. 1 keep all of your letters in two large
baskets in the small chapel in my Cripple Creek home, near the altar.
Sally's pictures are on the altar, and six candles, burning constantly for
her. Each time I receive a new letter from one of you, I place the latest
letter on the altar near one of her photographs, until the next one
arrives, then I place it in the basket with the others. And so, your I
letters are read and re-read, treasured and kept, and every single one j
spends time performing its magic on the little altar. Some of them are
tear-stained. They've all moved me deeply.
I am so grateful for your letters and your prayers. The magnetic
* As with Gooberz, Linda's readers have written about Sally because of her I
"Open Letter to Sally," printed in her last book. Love Signs. R. A. Brewer,
consulting editor.

-- 644 of 676 --

AFTERWORD * 581
energy of the power of the love they contain will soon manifest the
miracle of Sally's return. Please know this. And please continue to
keep the faith with me, as you've been doing from all over the world
(even Iceland and Poland) for so many long and weary years of wait-
ing. It has meant . . . and will mean . . . much more than you may
realize.
* * * * * *.
As for your inquiries about the astro-biology birth control de-
scribed in Love Signs, the anticipated author of that book, "R.C," has
decided not to write it after all. Instead, I am planning to bring out a
small, hand-held astrological computer-calculator, tentatively to be
called RAHRAM, accompanied by a small book, which will allow you
to calculate your own individual ovulatiQn periods yourself. Mean-
while, a word of caution: If you try to obtain your astro-biology dates
from an astrologer, should the astrologer not give you a full ten-day
period of celibacy each month, within which is your exact and indi-
vidual ovulation period, you will not get the one hundred percent
reliability I promised you. It relates to the life of the spermatozoa and
other factors, and is not something to be taken lightly. Make sure that
any astrologer whose help you may seek knows what he or she is
doing.
I've kept all your letters, and 1 will soon use them to convince a
particular computer company to underwrite RAHRAM, so send me —
and this urgent project — the blessing of lots of white light and en-
ergy. I've ordained it to be available within perhaps twenty-four
months subsequent to the publication of this book, but I need your
help. Your letters are a powerful persuasion for those who control the
financial funding for Such projects.
:
And now, regarding Gooberz, since you've all told me that you've

-- 645 of 676 --

582 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
received no response to your written inquiries from either my pub-
lishers or the bookstores, leaving you puzzled and frustrated, I feel it's
my responsibility to explain. Seven years is a long time to wait. You
deserve the truth, so, as complicated as it is, I'll share it with you. It's
more than a touch unusual, but I guess you're accustomed to the
unusual from me by now. I wish I led a nice, normal life, but does
anyone, really, these days ?
I assume you've already read the Preface to this book; otherwise
you won't understand what I'm about to relate.
The turbaned one was correct in all of his prognostications. As
you learned in the Preface, I went on my learning retreat "to the
mountains," as he foretold, kept a diary of my experiences, and have
used it as a basis for this book.
At the end of the year of my retreat to the mountains of Colorado,
I returned to California, also as he foretold, and on December 7, 1970,
Pearl Harbor Day, in Pickwick Bookstore, on Hollywood Boulevard
(now called B. Dalton Bookstore), I met the man he predicted I would
meet, right on schedule.
Approximately a year later, I sat down and wrote a book about
that experience, including the experiences of other men and women I
know, and called it Gooberz. When it was completed I put it away as
too intimate to share with the public and book reviewers. It was
channeled, manifested through what has been called "automatic writ-
ing," which I once believed had to be accomplished with pen or pencil
and paper. I now realize that the same process can occur while using
a typewriter. Channeled, automatic writing is a most disturbing expe
rience, 1 can assure you — something like suffering daily amnesia.
I wasn't quite sure, when it was completed, just what kind of a
"literary brain child" this strange book was. Gooberz eluded descrip-
tion,, and came out of the typewriter in a completely unconventional
style. Regardless of my decision to never publish it, I was persuaded
to allow a number of people to read the manuscript. Some of them

-- 646 of 676 --

AFTERWORD * 583
were married couples, many were college students reaching out for
something they could use as a guide to help them measure love and
analyze their relationships in a deeper sense. There were some who
requested to read the manuscript because it's very much about the
experience of death and bereavement, as much so as about love and
sex — men and women who had just experienced the agony of losing
someone close to them, and didn't feel like continuing to live them-
selves. Others read it to quench their thirst about mystical mysteries,
from reincarnation to . . . well a variety of occult secrets. They were
not disappointed.
1 was genuinely and unexpectedly amazed by the responses of
everyone who read the manuscript version of Gooberz. It seemed to
possess a life of its own, completely separate from me or my control.
In the strangest way, it appeared to contain some power, to vibrate to
some indefinable energy. Several couples who read it after they had
separated or divorced, were reunited, three couples married — and
two couples actually re-married. Those who had suffered agonizing
bereavements, who had been crushed and shattered by death, found,
not only consolation, but a certain miracle that transformed their grief
into unexpected joy and excited anticipation. (I can't explain here
why, but when you read the book, you'll understand.)
At some point in time, observing what kept happening in the
lives of people who had read the manuscript, I was forced to realize
that Gooberz didn't belong to me. It belonged to Higher Forces over
which I had little or no control. One male college student who read it
described it in an odd way. He called it "everyone's personal biogra-
phy," an unusual description coming from a man, since the book is
obviously written from a woman's viewpoint ahd experience.
That's one of the inexplicable facets of Gooberz. It has this diffi-
cult-to-analyze chameleon quality, so that, whoever is reading it, at
some early point along the way, kind of "locks in" to the plot, as one
person said, and from that point on, whether the reader is male or
female, the story becomes, not the author's, but the very personal

-- 647 of 676 --

584 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
history of his or her intimate relationship with someone. I've even
had some readers of the manuscript ask, "Were you looking in our
bedroom window ? Did you tape record our conversations and
phone calls ? How could you possibly know the exact words we said
to each other when we met . . . when we fought . . . when we parted .
. and so on ?"
Well, of course, I didn't know. How could I ! Yet, in that
strange chameleon way, the experiences in Gooberz, whether related to
childhood, maturity, death, a love affair or marriage — seem to allow
the people reading it to translate them into their own experiences. I
can't explain it. So I guess I should stop trying. I only know that's the
way it is — that's what happens. I suppose it's somehow connected
with the way it was written, in the sense of it having been channeled
by Higher Forces, who evidently know the alchemy of causing words
on a page to change their meaning for each individual who reads
them. I've been told that the book is "multi-layered," that what one
reader sees between-the-lines, another misses, yet sees a different mes-
sage the first one misses ... in each instance what is seen applying to a
particular individual.
Despite my growing awareness that I had no control over the
book I had more or less involuntarily-channeled, I continued to try to
exercise control over it anyway. I placed it firmly on a closet shelf,
returned to the haunted suite at the Hollywood Roosevelt Hotel, and
commenced work on Love Signs, a book I had already contracted to
write. (Gooberz was "put away forever" and this book, Star Signs, was
still in the form of my Colorado diary — see Preface.)
Unexpectedly, when Love Signs was nearly completed, I felt a
sudden urge to quote from Gooberz in this astrological compatibility
book, when I felt some of its passages were appropriate. You certainly
had every right, then, when Gooberz failed to appear in the bookstores
several years later, to write and inquire what happened to it.
This, essentially, is what happened. One of the messages the

-- 648 of 676 --

AFTERWORD * 585
turbaned Guru you read about in my Preface to this book had given
on that New Year's Day of 1970, at some eternal point during our fast-
forward-speed discussion of cabbages and kings and other odd, as-
sorted esoteric things — was a message I found to be distinctly un-
comfortable, so I erased it from my mind at the time. Shortly after
Love Signs was completed and published (although the events actually
began a few years earlier), his words came back to me . . . only too
clearly.
"On the level of your Higher Self," he had said, u
you have chosen
in this incarnation what is called by the Masters the thunderbolt path of
accelerated Karma, often chosen by those about to be initiated, at the
time of approaching Earth cataclysm."
He then explained that this was for the purpose of paying off
karmic debts swiftly, more or less in bunches, so that one may move
along with one's mission on Earth, sans the burden of the chains of
Karma for too many lifetimes postponed. I recall thinking it would be
something like cramming for a test in college, when you've goofed off
for several semesters and now it's nitty gritty time. I've explained this
in more detail in Chapter 4, "Deja Vu."
If ever truth was spoken, that prognostication was surely it.
There have been numerous and repeated occasions to remember his
words over these past eons ... has it really been sixteen years ? Seems
like sixty. The thunderbolt path of accelerated Karma indeed — with, I
might add, several bolts of lightning thrown in for good measure to
punctuate the earthquaking events in every sphere of my life, from
emotional to health, to financial to professional . . . and spiritual . . .
perhaps especially the latter, since my faith was severely shaken. I
realized, dimly, that 1 was experiencing what many of you have also
suffered, judging from your letters: a great soul test of worthiness. By
the way, 1 read all your letters carefully, and wish so very much I could
answer them personally, but it's simply impossible. • Instead, I try to
answer all but the most personal and specific questions through the

-- 649 of 676 --

586 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
books I write, and I trust this necessary alternative has been — and is
—helpful to you.
Even though I was, as I said, dimly aware of the reason for what I
was experiencing, such awareness, as I'm sure you've also discovered,
doesn't make it any easier to bear, never mind what you're told by
religious zealots who aren't always capable of practicing what they
preach. What did make it bearable was trying, as I did constantly, to'
hang on tightly to my childhood faith in magic and miracles — no
matter how great the mistakes, how muddled the tangle, how hopeless
the outlook.
I don't know what my grades were at the end of my personal soul
test, since one isn't given a report card for these things, but I assume
that I passed, because I'm still here. I may not have made A plus every
single time, but I tried, and as my Irish elf mother used to say of trying
. . .
u
the angels can do no more."
Early in 1980, after Love Signs had been published with its quotes
from Gooberz announcing that it would be available to you soon —
right in the middle of the upside-down world I was living in, while I
was thunderbolting down the path of some of that very heavy "accel-
erated Karma," out of the blue I received a phone call from the tur- j
baned one. The stranger.
This time he offered me his name. It was Nathaniel, he said, but
he preferred to be called Nahtan. Somehow, tie had located me and
learned my unlisted telephone number. I let it pass. Who questionssj
Avatars ? One must "save face" for them at all times, and not press too | dt
many questions. They'll just avoid answering anyway, so it's a waste*!
of energy to probe, as I've discovered with more than one of them.
Nahtan told me he had enjoyed reading Love Signs, gave me a 'L
much welcomed and needed little pat on the head for living up to my j ^
spiritual responsibility by writing it — then said he was disturbed by J
*,.
the indication in it that Gooberz would be my next published book. J fa

-- 650 of 676 --

AFTERWORD * 587
He reminded me of the counsel he had given me on that New Year's
Day in 1970 regarding the order of publication of Gooberz and the
book about my experiences in the mountains, saying . . .
"The book Gooberz has a mind of its own, and I'm sure you've
already discovered thau It will be published when it wants to'be —
not when either you or a publisher want it to be — neither before nor
beyond its allotted time." His tone was quite emphatic, even stern.
"This book will select its own timing synchronized to the harmonics of
the Universe.* As I advised you nine years ago, you must first write
and publish the book based on the diary you kept in Colorado, and I
believe you should call it Star Signs . .
." (he was even dictating the
title, and I bristled, but remained silent) "... the book about what you
learned during your mountain retreat, before you met the man about
whom Gooberz was written, which, by the way, I assume you did, at
the time ordained."
"Yes, I met him," I replied, "just as you predicted I would. Every-
thing happened right on schedule. But I wrote this book about it,
called Gooberz, as you know from reading Love Signs, and I really feel
that, because it's been promised to my readers in the book which is
out now, I should certainly keep ..."
He interrupted me quickly. "No. Your thinking about this is in
error."
"But . . . what will my readers think of me, when I promised them
i! that it would ..."
"They will understand. They will wait. It's now time for you to
share with them what you learned in Colorado in 1970 for those who
are searching for the many magics of understanding themselves and
others you discovered while you were there. Then, after Star Signs is
published, it will be time to share Gooberz with your readers, because
they will be better prepared to comprehend its message."

-- 651 of 676 --

588 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
I still remember my shock at hearing his compelling voice over
the wires. I suppose I'd imagined that one so . . . ethereal . . . would
not use ordinary mechanical devices like telephones. When I men-
tioned this to him, he laughed heartily (even his laughter had a British
accent) and said, "Actually, you and I do not need a telephone to
communicate. But since you are not yet aware of this, that is, you
don't believe it yet, which is the same thing, I reached you today
through your present level of understanding such things. Try to re-
member, however, in the future, that you may always contact me
without the instrument, any time you wish, simply by using the elec-
tromagnetic energy of intense desire. I will hear and answer you as
surely as I have today."
After this unexpected and bossy message from the stranger I be-
gan to feel like a puppet or a marionette, with my strings being pulled
first in one direction, then another, by very dictatorial Higher Forces.
Aries Rams do not accept gracefully such manipulation, even from
Divine Will. Nevertheless, I obediently agreed to first write and re-
lease Star Signs, to be published before Gooberz.
Soon after the conversation with Nahtan, your letters started to J
pour in from all over the world, asking, "Where is Gooberz ?" — even
some telegrams, stating just those three words ! This is the first
chance I've had to answer each of you.
Druid Honor, the foregoing is essentially the entire truth con-
cerning why you have been unable to find Gooberz. You've no idea
what a relief it is to finally share this literary trauma with you at last.
Again, I apologize to you foT the long delay, and once more thank you
for your letters, your patience and your faith.
Now you know the book's past, what about its future ?
Since I've obeyed Nahtan, completed Star Signs, and released it
for publication, 1 can turn my full attention to Gooberz. I'm-confident
that it will be winging into the bookstores before 1988 ends.

-- 652 of 676 --

AFTERWORD * 589
Keep those cards and letters coming, but this time mail them
directly to me. Linda Goodman — c/o the Postmaster — Cripple
Creek, Colorado — Zip: 80813. If we remain united, we shall
overcome !
As for those of you who have written that you've been recently
unable to locate a hardcover copy of Love Signs please be patient a
short while longer. Love Signs will be available in a new hardcover
edition soon.
Returning to Gooberz in closing, the "allotted time" of its "birth"
foretold by the turbaned one will be the manifestation of your miracle,
through your letters of inquiry and concern. That's the way the Uni-
versal Law of Image-Ordain-Manifest works.
All that electromagnetic energy projected by so many of your
minds has already made a powerful impression on the ethers, which
will materialize Gooberz and "matter it" into the bookstores soon.
1 assume you've already read and mastered the "Mind-Matter"
lesson in Chapter 8. The perfectly marvelous thing is that you were
creating the magic of materializing Gooberz (in a large sense, your own
personal biography of your quest for love) even before you read this
book or that chapter — before you consciously realized that you knew
the formula for such magic !
Do you see the wonderful thing this proves ? It proves that you
are already magical, and have been since you were born . . . that
everything in this present book you were subconsciously aware of,
before you even turned the first page ! Because, as I've told you, you
are all gods and goddesses, possessing great powers you have too long
forgotten.
Concerning Gooberz, you "minded" very much, and so it shall
soon "matter" !

-- 653 of 676 --

590 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
Now that you know the code, what are you waiting for ? There
must be many other miracles you've been dreaming about. Stop
dreaming and go right ahead . . . manifest them ! , :
Abracadabra ! .
^^Z^^^y txu^Ab^&^^J
******
:*:

-- 654 of 676 --

For The
Pilgrim's Progress
A RECOMMENDED READING LIST OF BOOKS ON METAPHYSICAL
AND OCCULT STUDIES . . . BOTH FICTION AND NONFICTION
ver the years, I've received such a blizzard of letters
asking me to recommend books for the fledgling as-
trologer and the occult beginner, I'm offering here
some suggestions for further study — these all being
either my past and current personal astrological
"bibles" — or books that have expanded my own awareness in the
myriad metaphysical fields, at various times.
There are many hundreds of astrology textbooks published, most
of them repetitious, some of them of no help whatsoever — and only a
very few of them of any real value to the serious, esoteric professional.
One can waste a good deal of money, since astrology books are so
expensive, using the slow process of trial and error. I don't claim that
these are the only valid textbooks. There are a number of other fine
ones. But these, in my own opinion, constitute a required library for
the sincere student of astrology. They are basic. After these books
have been acquired, others may be added according to personal
preference.
Also, in answer to those many who have written to ask, I use the

-- 655 of 676 --

592 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
Equal House system of the ancients in calculating a horoscope myself,
having tested and found the modern Placidian system not nearly so
dependable or revealing. In my own experience, the Placidian "inter-
cepted houses," which claim to give more depth to astrological inter-
pretation of the nativity, only serve to cloud the issues and to create
ambivalence. Human nature is strange. People always tend to lean
toward the more "complicated" methods in any field, rejecting the
simplistic — when the fact is that "truth" invariably is hidden within
simplicity. To each his own, of course. And to each her own. The
catholic-minded student should learn all the common systems, and
then decide for himself or herself. I merely state here my personal
faith in the decided superiority of the Equal House system of the an- J
cients for those who have inquired, and who have expressed an inter-
est in my private preference. For me, the Placidian system results in
many inaccuracies of interpretation. But if it works for you, by all 1
means use it. The very finest technical explanation of why the Equal ]
House system is the more accurate and reliable is contained in the
front section of Sydney Omarr's excellent book, My World oj Astrology. 1
The following astrology textbooks are listed in order of impor-
tance to the novice in the beginning stages of learning to calculate a
nativity (natal chart or horoscope). If possible, it's desirable to pur-
chase at the stan all the books listed. If you can afford only a few at a
rime, my recommendation is that they be purchased in the order in
which they're given here.
In answer to the many requests for recommended reading in the |*
entire occult or esoteric-spiritual field (supplementary to astrology it
self) I've also listed here the books I've personally found the mostj|
inspiring and enlightening for the beginner. This is by no means a
complete list. There are many others. But these are the ones that
bestow a more comprehensive "awakening," and which I therefore
believe should be read first. This second list of recommended books is
not given in any particular order of importance. If 1 were pressed to
advise which of the books among these should constitute the initial
introduction to these matters, I would say There Is a River, by Thomas
.

-- 656 of 676 --

FOR THE PILGRIM'S PROGRESS * 593
Sugrue, because this book is a sound general preparation for the wis-
dom to be found in all the others and holds the reader's interest com-
pletely, whether a believer or a disbeliever. It is a good place to begin.
Not all but some titles are annotated for the reader's greater
(convenience.
TO LEARN TO CALCULATE AND INTERPRET A HOROSCOPE
Ephemeriden 1890-1950 (Zurich), calculated for noon GMT (Green-
wich Mean Time)
or
The Complete Planetary Ephemeris, calculated for midnight GMT for
1950 to 2,000 a.d.
If the Zurich ephemeris is used, the student will also need Die
Deutsche Ephemeride (calculated for midnight GMT) for any ten-year
period after 1950, such as the current one for the years 1980 through
1990, inclusive.
The Rosicrucian Tables oj Houses
This contains, in addition to the necessary information for locat-
ing the Ascendent and MidHeaven of a nativity, a surprisingly com-
prehensive listing of the latitudes and longitudes of both American
and foreign cities. (When such a list contains Cripple Creek, Colo-
rado — thaCs comprehensive!)
Time in the U.S.A. Compiled by Doris Chase Doan.
This is a "must" for accurate calculation and for birth hour rec-
tification. It contains the very necessary Daylight Saving Time infor-
mation, which cannot be found in any other book. This is the best
book of its kind — and since a chart is not accurate if you don't know
the facts about DST in various places at various times, it is vital. For
many decades in the U.S.A., each state and town and city has had an
individual rule about DST, rather like the Mad Hatter's Tea Party. The

-- 657 of 676 --

594 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
only time the entire nation was on DST simultaneously was during tha
years of World War II, when it was called War Time — and it lastecl
consecutively all year long, every year, during .the period of the warj
Time in the USA. explains War Time, gives the period when it was in
effect — and also gives the DST of other years for different hamlets!
cities and towns within the States, for which there is considerably
variation.
My World of Astrology, by Sydney Omarr. New York: Fleet Publishii
Company, 1965.
No published astrological textbook so clearly and definitive;
demonstrates the CORRECT WAY to cast a chart. All other
written on the subject are to some degree confusing and misleadir
Sydney's book is the only one that explains (or at least the only i
that makes it CLEAR to a beginner) the urgent importance of the ]
tion of the SUN in a horoscope. The Sun- must fall at the right "Tin
in the chart. Otherwise, you can be sure that you've either mad
mistake in your math calculations — or that no baby could have I
born on that particular day, month and year — at that particular tin
in that particular longitude-latitude.
This constitutes the greatest proof of the validity of astrology,
also an enormous help in the rectification of the true birth
(Mother's memory and the Nurse's accuracy are both less than ide
The World-Breath has definite and periodic pulsations — a j
tole and diastole action — whereby birth is controlled. Nature's i
finite periodicity may not be altered nor disputed. Births may
place in respect to any single locality and date only at intervals that arrj
in accordance with certain Lunar motion. Only particular conditions
involving the World-Breath permit birth to occur in a given location* j
at a specific moment in Time. Repeatedly, I and others have chal-
lenged sceptical astronomers and scientists to allow us to prove this
profound proof of the holiness of astrology — to no avail. Omarr1
!
book also contains fascinating accounts of the author's several sue-
cessful debates with various "erudite" critics of astrology — and I]
wealth of other assorted natal and esoteric information.

-- 658 of 676 --

FOR THE PILGRIM'S PROGRESS * 595
The Manual oj Astrology, by Sepharial. London: W. Foulsham and
Company, Ltd., 1962.
Perhaps the one book I would place at the very top of the list of
absolutely indispensable interpretive textbooks. This book alone can
make anyone who has a natural aptitude for such work a competent
astrologer of natal science.
The Complete Method of Prediction, by Robert de Luce. New York: ASI
Publishers, Inc. 127 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y. 10016, 1978.
An exceptional and extraordinary interpretive guide on a level
with the Sepharial textbook. In particular, this is a fine book regard-
ing transits and progressions in predictive work; whereas the Sepharial
book is more helpful concerning the interpretation of the natal horo-
scope (character and potential, etc.).
Heaven Knows What, by Grant Lewi. St. Paul, MN: Llewellyn Publica-
tions, P.O. Box 3383, St. Paul, MN. 55165, 1962.
A classic, and deservedly so. This book can bring a quick com-
prehension of astrology to even the amateur, and is written in Gemini
Lewi's wonderfully readable and witty style, without his sacrifice of a
single thread of the scientific foundation of astrology. Lewi was a
mathematical genius, as well as a fine creative writer, a rare combina-
tion. This book is concerned mainly with character analysis and po-
tential, on the basis of the Luminary (Sun-Moon) positions and other
planetary aspects in the birth chart — and the reader doesn't have to
know how to calculate a horoscope to find it useful and amazingly
reliable as a measurement of character and personality on the basis of
more than the Sun Sign alone. Charts in the back allow the reader to
look up the natal aspects of any birthday. But caution should be used
in relation, to the Moon Sign. It's best to have this particular position
calculated exactly.
Astrology for the Millions, by Grant Lewi. St. Paul, MN.: Llewellyn
Publications, P.O. Box 3383, Saint Paul, MN. 55165, 1975.
The same kind of classic as the above book, except that this one
deals mostly with the predictive facet of astrology for the amateur and

-- 659 of 676 --

596 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
professional alike. Both books contain a wealth of additional reading
material regarding the entire field of astrology, easily understood by
those who know nothing about this art and science whatsoever — and
are useful as well for the serious student of astrology.
Astrology and the Human Sex Life, by Vivian Robson. London: W.
Foulsham and Company, Ltd., 1963.
An excellent book for the purpose of comparing two horoscopes
in detailed compatibility work.
How to Handle Your Human Relations, by Lois Haines Sargent. Wash-
ington, D.C.: American Federation of Astrologers, 1958.
A most reliable guide concerning compatibility aspects between
horoscopes, on the same level as the above book but not quite so in-
depth regarding this particular branch of astrology.
Aspects, by Charles Carter. London. L. N. Fowler & Co. Ltd.
Any book at all by Alan Leo.
Any book at all by Manly P. Hall
The Dictionary of Astrology, by James Wilson. New York: Samuel
Weiser Publications, 1974.
This is an indispensable book for the student who intends to
make a serious study of astrology — or to become a professional as-
trologer. A really urgent guide for all manner of astrological termi-
nologies and methods.
Horary Astrology, by Robert de Luce.
Horary Astrology, by Geraldine Davis. N. Hollywood, CA.: Symbols
and Signs, P.O. Box 4536 N. Hollywood, CA. 91607.
Linda Goodmans Sun Signs. New York: Taplinger, 1968.
Linda Goodman's Love Signs. New York: Harper & Row, 1978.
Linda Goodman's Star Signs. New York: St. Martin's Press, 1987.

-- 660 of 676 --

FOR THE PILGRIM'S PROGRESS * 597
Any good Pluto ephemeris.
Showing the "movements" or the sign positions of the planet
Pluto over the years — and giving an interpretation of Pluto's natal
aspects in the birth horoscope (potential) as well as the meaning of
Pluto's transiting and progressed aspects in predictive work. The Ger-
man books concerning Pluto are the most definitive and reliable.
The Technique of Prediction, by Ronald Carlyle Davison. London: L. N.
Fowler & Co., Ltd., 1971.
One of the finest textbooks available concerning the interpreta-
tion of transiting planets and progressions.
Lectures on Medical Astrology, by Davidson, M.D.
You'll be extremely fortunate to locate and possess this series of
lectures by Dr. Davison on Medical Astrology. It is not easily avail-
able. At one time it was printed by astrologer Charles Jayne, of New
York. This is, without question, the most accurate, perceptive and
comprehensive study of medical astrology thus far published, to my
knowledge.
Any book by Margaret Hone.
Any book by or about Evangeline Adams.
The Astrology Annual Reference Booh. N. Hollywood, CA.: Symbols and
Signs P.O. Box 4536, N. Hollywood, CA. 91607.
This reference guide has been compiled with loving care and rare
integrity as a quick and easy, reliable source for a multitude of pur-
poses, and is republished and re-created every year — with many new
astrological concepts for study, which the editors neither endorse not
condemn but offer for consideration and research.
FOR READING INVOLVING THE GENERAL OCCULT FIELD
Reincarnation in World Thought, edited by S. L. Cranston and Joseph
Head. New York: Julian Press, Crown Publishers, Inc.

-- 661 of 676 --

598 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
This is an excellent and incredibly detailed book concerning the
vast subject of reincarnation, even giving the private experiences of
many famous people regarding deja vu. It is scholarly and utterly
fascinating, and would prove for the most sceptical the sound com-
mon sense of this basic truth of all Life — the original foundation of all
religion.
Reincarnation. The Phoenix Fire Mystery (same authors) is also very
illuminating, although I personally prefer the earlier published book.
New York: Crown Publishers, Inc., 1978. Obtain both if possible.
The Search jor the Girl with the Blue Eyes, by Jess Stern. New York:
Doubleday & Co. (Reincarnation) (Used bookstores.)
The Game of Life, by Florence Shinn. Marina Del Rey, CA.: De Vorss &
Co.
You Forever, by Lobsang Rampa. London: Corgi Books, 1965.
Other Rampa books are fascinating, but not nearly so helpful as j
this one, in my personal opinion.
There Is a River, by Thomas Sugrue. New York: Henry Holt & Co.,
1942.
Or, The Association for Research and Enlightenment, Virginia
Beach, VA.
Any book about Edgar Cayce.
Any book published by the A.R.E. (Association for Research and
Enlightenment) Virginia Beach, Va.
The Sexuality of Jesus, by the Reverend William Phipps. New York:
Harper & Row, 1979.
Any book by the Reverend William Phipps.
The Aquarian Gospel, by Levi. Marina Del Ray, CA.: De Vorss & Co.,
1964.
A truly necessary classic.

-- 662 of 676 --

FOR THE PILGRIM'S PROGRESS * 599
The Essene Gospel of Peace.
Available only through Academy Books, 3085 Reynard Way, San
Diego, CA. Any book at all published by Academy Books, above ad-
dress, is excellent reading for enlightenment. They will send you a
complete list of titles and content.
Do You Really Need Eyeglasses? by Marilyn B. Rosanes. Berrett, New
York: Popular Library, 1978.
Your eyes are the window of your soul. You owe them the gift of
reading this very fine and unusual book to bring about that "clear day"
when you can u
see forever."
Astrology, the Space Age Science, by Joseph E Goodavage. New York:
New American Library, W. W. Norton &r Co., Inc. 1967.
This book should be required reading for all schools.
Before going any further, I'd like to say that Goodavage 's
book should be one of the "bibles" of all New Age
thinkers. It's packed with colorful confetti of esoteric
knowledge, and chorded with ancient wisdom, backed
up by scientific data for the sceptical. If this splendid
book were to be made required reading in schools, the
education system would be powerfully transformed, as
would the students exposed to it.
Our Threatened Planet, Goodavage. New York: Simon & Schuster,
1978.
Storm on the Sun, Goodavage. New York: New American Library,
1979.
The Secret Life of Plants, by Peter Tompkins and Christopher Bird.
New York: Harper & Row, 1973.

-- 663 of 676 --

600 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
The Secrets of the Great Pyramid, by Peter Tompkins. New York:
Harper & Row, 1971.
The Mysteries of the Mexican Pyramids, by Peter Tompkins. New York:
• Harper & Row, 1976.
Cheir&s Book of Numbers, by Cheiro. New, York: Arc Books, 1964.
The Kabala of Numbers, New York: Samuel Weiser Publications, 1913.
One of the finest, if not the finest book in the field of spiritual
numerology, closely aligned with astrology. Extremely enlightening
and awakening.
Psychic Discoveries Behind the Iron Curtain, by Sheila Ostrander and
Lynn Schroeder. NewTork: Bantam Books, 1971; Englewood Cliffs,
N.J.: Prentice-Hall, Inc., 1970.
A superlative basic book regarding the entire occult field of
worldwide scientific investigation of the metaphysical.
Health and light, by John N. Ott. New York: Pocket Books, 1976.
The Life Everlasting, by Marie Corelli. Alhambra, CA.: Borden Publish-
ing Co., 1855 West Main St., Alhambra, CA. 91801.
Ardath and Romance of Two Worlds, by Marie Corelli. Try used
bookstores.
The above books are classics concerning Twin Souls and mystical
awareness. Other Corelli books not so helpful, but always interest-
ing. Corelli writing is inspired and will be extremely enlightening for
those curious to learn more about "Twin Souls." Her spiritual revela-
tions are reliable and follow all the higher precepts of metaphysics,
with the single exception that the author, at the time she wrote these
books, had not yet been illuminated regarding the falsehood of the
"Divinity" of Jesus — that he was an exceptional and extraordinary
human, but only a man and not Divine. Other than this one mislead-
ing factor, the Corelli books are flawless regarding all occult matters.

-- 664 of 676 --

FOR THE PILGRIM'S PROGRESS * 601
A Dweller on Two Planets, by Phylos. Alhambra, CA.: Borden Publish-
ing Co., 1855 West Main St., Alhambra, CA. 91801.
For the advanced student of the occult.
Any book by Dion Fortune. St. Paul, Minn.: Llewellyn Publications (or
secondhand bookstores).
Dion Fortune books are only for the very advanced initiate.
Consciousness and Reality, by Dr. Charles Muses.
The Lion Path, by Musaios. Sceptre Publishing, 1442-A Walnut St.,
Berkeley, CA. 94709.
The Essene Christ, by Upton C. Ewing. The Edenite Society, Inc. P.O.
Boxll5, Imlayston, N.J. 08526.
The Prophet of the Dead Sea Scrolls, by Upton C. Ewing. The Edenite
Society.
These two Ewing books should also be required reading in
schools, for the awakening of all the children of the Aquarian Age.
A Time For Astrology, by Jess Stearn. New York: New American Li-
brary, W W Norton & Co., Inc., 1972. East Rutherford, NJ.; Cow-
ard, McCann & Geoghegan, Inc., 1971.
Design for Destiny, by Edward W Russell. New York: Ballantine
Books, Inc., Division of Random House, Inc., 1973.
A most important book, containing serious answers to those who
are sceptical of all spiritual phenomena.
The Last Days of the Late Great State of California, by Kurt Gentry. New
York:
G. P. Putnam's Sons, 1968 (probably available only through sec-
ondhand bookstores).
A Wrinkle in Time, by Madeleine L 'Engle. New York: Dell Publishing
Co., Inc.

-- 665 of 676 --

602 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
Any book by George Hunt Williamson.
Any book by Michael UObrenovich.
The Little Prince, by Antoine de Saint-Exupery. New York: Harcourt
Brace Jovanovich, 1943.
The Spear oj Destiny, by Trevor Ravenscroft. New York: G. P. Putnam's
Sons, 1973.
The Gospel oj St. John, by Rudolph Steiner. Spring Valley, NY: The
Anthroposophic Press, Inc., 1940.
From a cycle of twelve lectures given by Steiner in Hamburg,
Germany, in May 1908.
Any book by Rudolph Steiner.-
For a list of all books by Steiner, check with the Goethe Society,
New York. Rudolph Steiner was a metaphysician unequaled before or
since his time regarding all spiritual writings.
Four Arguments for the Elimination oj Television, by Jerry Mander. New
York: William Morrow & Co., Inc., 1978.
The subject matter concerns far more than television itself. It i
concerns your literal survival, and is one of the most important books ;
of the dawning Aquarian Age. It should be required reading in \
schools, but probably won't be because it offends those who make
large fortunes from activities that harm us all.
A Tree Grows in Brooklyn, by Betty Smith. New York: Harper & Row,
1947.
A book about metaphysical truth, and all forms of love, disguised
as everyday living. My personal favorite of all books written during
this century. It will carry an open mind wherever it wishes to go,
especially inside itself. Reading it for the first time is like finding an
old friend you thought you'd lost a long time ago, even if you're not
from Brooklyn! You're as much in need of its wisdom and promise for

-- 666 of 676 --

FOR THE PILGRIM'S PROGRESS * 603
tomorrow as was the generation of the forties, when it first appeared.
Maybe more.
Any book by Vera Stanley Alder.
Any book by Dr. Paul Brunton.
Beauty: A Retelling oj the Story of Beauty and the Beast, by Robin
McKinley. New York: Harper & Row, 1978.
One Bowl: A Simple Concept for Controlling Weight, by Don Gerrard.
New York: Random House, 1974.
A powerfully beneficial but as yet unrealized concept that ex-
plains the unsuspected hindrance of physical health and spiritual en-
lightenment in "social dining," i.e., the blending of conversation with
the partaking of food and drink.
Evil and World Order, by William Irwin Thompson. New York: Harper
& Row, 1976.
The Last Blue Whale, by Vincent Smith. New York: Harper & Row,
1979.
A few of these books may only be obtained as indicated. If your local
occult bookstore doesn't carry any of the others, most of them may be
obtained by writing to:
The Bodhi Tree, 8585 Melrose Ave., LA, CA 90069
B. Dalton (Pickwick Books), 6743 Hollywood Blvd., L.A., CA.
90028
Gilbert's Bookshop, 6278 Hollywood Blvd., L.A., CA 90028
Samuel Weiser Bookshop, 132 East 24th St., New York, N.Y 10010
Zoltan Mason Bookstore, 789 Lexington Ave., New York, N.Y.
10021
Chinook Bookstore, 210 North Tejon, Colorado Springs, CO.
80903.
(They will order any of these books for you.)
If any of these fine books, which should be always available to the

-- 667 of 676 --

604 * LINDA GOODMAN'S STAR SIGNS
public, happen to be "out of print," I suggest that you write to the
publisher and strongly urge republication. Publishers have no right
to withhold from you books which could so benefit your lives,
which perhaps did not sell as quickly as their publishers would like
— for the good reason that they were not properly promoted and
advertised

-- 668 of 676 --

About the Author
Linda Goodman was born during a spring thunderstorm on an
April day. She has four children: a Goat, an Archer, a Water Bearer
and a Scorpio Eagle, who are currently pursuing their assorted
dreams, and with whom she celebrates Groundhog's Day and other
important holidays frequently. Linda lives in the Colorado mountains
with her dogs, Benjamin and Bear, Cancer and Gemini respectively.
Ben and Bear are vegetarians. One is twelve years old and one is nine
years old, so they are still puppies. A lion who was born free some-
times visits Linda's home, but it is quite tame and friendly, despite an
occasional grumpy growl. The author's favorite songs are "When You
Wish Upon a Star" and "On a Clear Day," of which there are an abun-
dance in her home town of Cripple Creek (stars and clear days). Her
favorite perfume is vanilla extract and sweet peas in the rain. Her
favorite book is A Wrinkle in Time. She is 5' 4" or 5' 5" depending on
whether she is wearing shoes or barefoot, so most of the time she is
5' 4". So much for vital statistics and biographical background.

-- 669 of 676 --



-- 670 of 676 --

REALIZE THE NATURAL HEALING
POTENTIAL OF YOUR BODY.
In his lifetime, spiritual pioneer Edgar Cayce helped thou-
sands experience the wonders of holistic medicine. Now, his
writings are interpreted and updated by William McGarey,
M.D., a medical doctor who has used Cayce's methods to heal
thousands.
You, too, can learn to understand the secrets of
self-healing, including:
• Emotional, lifestyle, sleep, and dietary patterns that affect your
body's automatic healing process-and how you can improve them. •
How energy medicine can keep you ahead of rising health-care costs.
• The importance of aura and energy fields, internal electrical activ-
ity, and homeostasis. • Understanding meditation and purification
as tools to energize your spiritual pyramid and encourage your body
to heal. • The acidlalkaline balance, its importance, and the foods
you can use to alter it. • Stress reduction, dream interpretation, and
past-life therapy.
Healing
Mi
Using your Body Energies for
Spiritual and Physical health
WILLIAM A. MCGAREY, M.D.
HEALING MIRACLES
William A. McGarey, M.D.
95948-6 $5.99 U.S./$6.99 CAN.
Publishers Book and Audio Mailing Sen/ice
P.O. Box 070059, Staten Island, NY 10307
Please send me the book(s) I have checked above. I am enclosing $ (please add
$1 .50 for the first book, and $.50 for each additional book to cover postage and handling.
Send check or money order only—no CODs) or charge my VISA, MASTERCARD,
DISCOVER or AMERICAN EXPRESS card.
Card Number .
Expiration date ; Signature
Name
Address ,
City State/Zip
Please allow six weeks for delivery. Prices subject to change without notice. Payment in
U.S. funds only. New York residents add applicable sales tax. HEALM 1 1/97

-- 671 of 676 --

Like other residents of the strange communities of Crestone
and the Baca, Christopher O'Brien was drawn to the
sacred valley of Native American myth. He was soon com-
pelled to document, in disturbing detail, the inexplicable
events unfolding around him and the questions they
raised:
• What is the truth behind the nightly light show
of UFOs pulsing and glowing across the sky?
• What are the strange rumbling noises coming
from underground?
• What is the origin of a mysterious crystal skull
found in the Baca?
• And most frightening of all, who is responsi-
ble for the scores of cattle left bloodless and
mutilated in inhuman fashion?
Including fascinating and sometimes frightening firsthand
accounts by residents of the area, The Mysterious Valley
reveals the storyof one of the most bizarre regions on the
face of the eartn and its chilling implications for the rest of
humanity.
MYtfllK VALLEY
CHHISTOPHER Q'BHIEN
THE MYSTERIOUS VALLEY
Christopher O'Brien
95883-8 $6.99 U.S./$7.99 CAN.
Publishers Book and Audio Mailing Service
P.O. Box 070059, Staten Island. NY 10307
Please send me the book(s) I have checked above. I am enclosing $ (please add
$1 .50 for the first book, and $.50 for each additional book to cover postage and handling.
Send check or money order only—no CODs) or charge my VISA, MASTERCARD,
DISCOVER or AMERICAN EXPRESS card.
Card Number
Expiration date Signature
Name
Address \ /
City State/Zip _
Please allow six weeks for delivery. Prices subject to change without notice. Payment in
U.S. funds only. New York residents add applicable sales tax. MV 1 1/96

-- 672 of 676 --

COPING. ..CREATING. ..CHANGING...
Turn your struggles
into lifelong transformation.
During his lifetime, American visionary Edgar Cayce helped
housands of individuals overcome their personal obstacles
with his readings. Now, Drs. Harmon and June Bro, the only
living eyewitnesses to hundreds of his counseling sessions, have
made Cayce s insights available to everyone, including:
• Understanding crisis as part of a natural life cycle
• How to accept anxiety, denial, rage, and self-blame
• Dealing with the burning question, "Where was God?"
• Eight practical ways to get beyond powerlessness, by helping others
• Using a dream journal, biographies, prayer and meditation to
"downsize" a catastrophe
Growing Through
Personal Crisis
Harmon Hartzell Bro, Ph.D.
with June Avis Bro, D. Min.
GROWING THROUGH PERSONAL CRISIS
Harmon Hartzell Bro, Ph.D. with June Avis Bro, D. Min.
96222-3 $5.99 U.S./$7.99 CAN.
Publishers Book and Audio Mailing Sen/ice
P.O. Box 070059, Staten Island, NY 10307
Please send me the book(s) I have checked above. I am enclosing $ (please add
$1 .50 for the first book, and $.50 for each additional book to cover postage and handling.
Send check or money order only—no CODs) or charge my VISA, MASTERCARD,
DISCOVER or AMERICAN EXPRESS card.
Card Number
Expiration date Signature
Name
Address.
City State/Zip
Please allow six weeks for delivery. Prices subject to change without notice. Payment in
U.S. funds only. New York residents add applicable sales tax. CRISIS 1 1/97

-- 673 of 676 --

ni2?.I9K KfJfiL'Q LIBRARY
Have
3 9999 03490 305 2
Has your inumiun cvu ...«^ 7 r JCious
of someone?
•
Have you had dreams that came true?
We are all born with psychic powers, but few of us learn
how to control them or make them work for us. Now,
renowned psychic Richard Lawrence has written a
wonderfully readable and wise guide ., that teaches you
how to harness your psychic abilities/Now you can
master your inborn psychic abiHties-*>and unlock the
way to your inner self.
UNLOCK YOUR
UNLOCK YOUR' PSYCHIC POWERS
Dr. Richard Lawrence
95412-3 $5.99 U.S. ONLY
i Publishers Book and Audio Mailing Service
P.O. Box 070059, Staten Island, NY 10307
Please send me the book(s) I have checked above. I am enclosing $ (please add
$1 .50 for the first book, and $.50 for each additional book to cover postage and handling.
Send check or money order only—no CODs) or charge my VISA, MASTERCARD,
DISCOVER or AMERICAN EXPRESS card.
Card Number
Expiration date Signature ,
Name ,
City State/Zip
Please allow six weeks for delivery. Prices subject to change without notice. Payment in
U.S. funds only. New York residents add applicable sales tax. LAWRENCE 9/97

-- 674 of 676 --

4 % &
BSS]U»?00LlCUBRARy
BAKER & TAYLOR

-- 675 of 676 --

/ ThE MASTER ASTROLOGER'S C
SPIRITUAL AM X \ \ SIC AL SELF-h
\SSIC
P GU
She has helped millions improve their lives, loves,
and businesses through her bestselling books Sun
Signs and Love Signs. Here, in her most personal
book yet, Linda Goodman, Americas premier
astrologer, has written an enlightening and
remarkably accurate guide to help you discover all
the powers you possess. How can you achieve
financial freedom and financial security? Which
holistic healing methods really work? What hidden
meanings can be found in numbers, words, and
deja vu? How can music, color, and crystals be used
to improve your body and your mind?
With her usual compassion, wit, and perception,
Linda Goodman broadens the horizons of astrology
to help you on your way to health and happiness.
Recall the forgotten harmony of the Universe with...
LIMDAGOODMAM'S
STAP SIGMS
"Sure to delight!" -Library Journal
\SIIK IK M I II I Mill \l\ (-1 III

-- 676 of 676 --

